ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 10:33 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u6	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, I rise to announce the request, which will be made at the next Conference of the Leaders of the Democratic Party, for information from the President of the Count Council on the outcome of the Conference on Libya which closed yesterday. We are really concerned about what happened: the Conference closed with nothing in fact, without any document. We would like to better understand the outcome, which has been declared only as a wish for the future of Libya, a country that we are very interested in from the point of view of economic relations and the management of migratory flows. On such a sensitive dossier, a conference was decided to be held on which relevant guests had been announced from the United States. Instead, participation was very low, without even the presence of the Secretary of State, while some important partners of the Mediterranean left the Conference ahead of time. Then there was the guests' ballet, with Haftar who arrived in Palermo, but did not participate in the Conference. On such an important dossier, on which the stakes had been raised and expectations had been raised, we expect a very short speech from President Conte, to come to the Senate to report on the outcome of the Conference, but above all on the next appointments that will have to see Italy protagonist in Libya, so that clear answers can arrive on the side of the possible elections and the involvement of the main actors. We do not know any of this to date, so we think it is appropriate - and that is why there will be a clear request from the Democratic Party Group - for the President of the Council to come and report back to the Senate. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u9	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to announce to the House that this morning the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights was set up, and I was elected Vice President. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I thank you for the confidence and announcement that I will pay any additional allowances to the earthquake victims or in any case to state accounts for the fight against poverty. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u10	The next item is the debate on draft law No 909, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteurs, Senators Ripamonti and Patuanelli, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Ripamonti.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, before entering into the substance of the measure before this House today, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Presidents and all the senators of the Commissions, to the majority forces, to my Group, to Senator Romeo, for allowing me, as Ligurian Senator, to play the role of rapporteur for the 8th Commission, of which I am not a full member. Similarly, I would like to thank Senator Pepe, who I replaced during the examination of the measure in the Commission for public works. I will therefore focus on the rules of the decree-law of which the conversion is proposed concerning the interventions developed by the Government in order to provide the necessary support to the territory and the population of Genoa, so deeply affected by the collapse of the viaduct Polcevera, in order to favor the economic recovery of those territories, as well as to raise, more generally, the level of safety of the national network of infrastructures and transports. The measure has come to the examination of the Senate with numerous additions and recognized improvements after the in-depth examination carried out in the Chamber of Deputies, passed also through the listening of the institutional representatives of the territories involved in the world of work, of the enterprises and of the civil society. The work carried out by the rapporteur, Mr Flavio Di Muro, on the part of the 8th Commission, has made it possible to see recognized all the requirements within the decree-law today in approval, showing the sensitivity of the Government to the tragedy that struck Genoa and its inhabitants. Allow me also to thank the Government and in particular the vice minister Rixi who from Liguria and Genoa has been able to show recognized the needs of Genoa and the Genoese in this measure, allowing the city to look with confidence to the future in terms of recovery and competitiveness. The need to allow the immediate start of reconstruction and assistance activities to the population, now require that we proceed as soon as possible with the conversion of the decree-law, in order to respect the constitutional terms but above all to speed up the entry into force of the rules introduced to the House: I am thinking in particular of measures for displaced persons. I would now like to thank the Government for the openness shown during the examination in the Commissions, through the adoption of most of the agendas presented by both the majority and opposition forces: of the 89 agendas examined, in fact, the Government accepted 55 in the text of the proposers, 21 in a text reworded by the presenters and finally accepted one as a recommendation. As for the text of the provision, Chapter I contains the norms on Genoa. In particular, Article 1 regulates the institution and powers of the extraordinary commissioner for reconstruction, identified by the Government after the adoption of the decree of the mayor of Genoa Marco Bucci, as well as the composition of the commissioner structure. It is expected that the Commissioner - who will have to guarantee the activities for the demolition and disposal of the resulting materials, as well as for the design, the custody and the reconstruction of the infrastructure and the restoration of the connected road system - will act as a derogation to any provision of law other than the criminal law, without prejudice, in addition to compliance with the mandatory constraints deriving from the membership of the European Union, the compliance with the provisions of the Code of Anti-Mafia Laws and the prevention measures. Several provisions then regulate the relations between the extraordinary commissioner and the company Autostrade for Italy SpA. In particular, it is established that the concessionaire of the motorway section, at the date of the event, is required to meet the costs of rebuilding the infrastructure and restoring the connected road system. In the event of failure to pay, the Commissioner may identify a public or private person who advances the sums necessary to complete the works. As a guarantee of the immediate activation of the anticipation mechanism, in order to ensure the rapid start of the activities of the commissioner, the expenditure of 30 million annual from 2018 to 2029 is still authorised. The Special Commissioner may, by negotiated procedure, without prior publication of the notice of invitation to tender, entrust the activities relating to the restoration of the road system to persons other than the concessionaire of the motorway section and to companies or entities controlled by the latter or, in any case, related to it. [[Brusio]] Mr President, it is very difficult to speak under these conditions.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u12	You're right, Senator. I would ask my fellow Members to allow the rapporteur to make his speech with more attention and less brusqueness.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u13	Please, Senator Ripamonti. RIPAMONTI, rapporteur. The exclusion of the company Autostrade from the realization of the activities of reconstruction is motivated with the possibility that the concessionaire is responsible, in relation to the event, for serious failure of the concessionary relationship. Article 1-a, aimed at the protection of the right to housing, regulates the procedure for the voluntary disposals and eventual expropriations of the real estate units subject to the eviction orders issued following the collapse of the Morandi bridge, with the provision of an allowance to the owners and beneficiaries, placed at the expense of the concessionaire of the motorway section. Article 1-b introduces specific measures for the carrying out of the demolition and reconstruction of the Morandi bridge and for the verification and safety by the motorway dealers of all the road infrastructure covered by conventional acts, with particular regard to bridges, viaducts and overpasses. In order to face the necessities consequent to the collapse of the Morandi bridge, article 2 authorizes the assumption of personnel from the territorial authorities and the Authority of harbour system of the Ligurian Sea west. It then disposes the integration of 9 million euros for the year 2018 and 11 million euros for 2019 from the special accounts registered to the commissioner delegate for the emergency, identified in August, immediately after the collapse of the viaduct, in the president of the Region Liguria Giovanni Toti. Article 3 contains a series of tax concessions for real estate which, following the collapse of the Morandi bridge, have suffered damage or have been the subject of eviction orders. The possibility of exempting electricity, gas, water and telephone supplies from payment was also introduced. Article 4 recognizes economic benefits to businesses and to the liberal professionals, with operational headquarters within the damaged area, who have suffered a decrease in turnover, while Article 4-a, in analogy with that established for the families in Article 1-a of the Decree-Law, introduces compensation for the voluntary disposal or the expropriation of the properties that house the companies that have suffered damages. Again, charges are borne by the motorway dealer. The same forecast also applies to the refreshment of the loss and damage suffered by the equipment and the company materials. By way of derogation from the general provisions on social shock absorbers, Article 4-b provides that workers in the private sector, including agricultural workers, who are penalised in their work, are to be granted an allowance equal to the maximum wage supplement treatment. A one-off allowance is then granted to holders of co-ordinated and continuous cooperation, agency and commercial representation and self-employed persons who have had to stop working as a result of the collapse. Article 5 provides for appropriations for the financing of additional transport services, for the efficiency of regional and local public transport, for the tariff integration between the different modes of transport in the territory of the metropolitan city of Genoa. Then 20 million for 2019 and for the renewal of the fleet means used, with priority for vehicles powered by electric, hybrid and hydrogen. With reference to the road haulage, are allocated 20 million euros for 2018 for the refreshment of the greater expenses faced in consequence of the collapse of the Morandi bridge. For the realization of road works of connection or however inherent the mobility are attributed 5 million euros to the Municipality of Genoa. Finally, it is expected that, with reference to the works identified as alternative road routes, the Delegated Commissioner may authorise variants in the course of execution by way of derogation from Article 106 of the Code of Public Contracts. Article 6, in order to guarantee the optimization of the logistic vehicular flows in entry and exit from the port of Genoa, entrusts to the Ministry of infrastructures and the transports the task of overseeing the planning and the realization, in way of urgency, of infrastructures to high automation, of computer systems and the relative ancillary works. For the requirements of operating character and logistic in harbour within deriving from the event, are then attributed resources to the Harbour office of Genoa. Always with reference to the requirement to safeguard the functionality of the port of Genoa and to optimize the vehicular and logistic flows, article 6-a authorizes hiring of staff near the Agency of the customs and the monopolies. With the article 7, in order to overcome the emergency and to favor the resumption of the economic activities, is instituted the Special Logistic Zone - Port and Retroport of Genoa is introduced, with the forecast of the application of simplified procedures for the enterprises that start a program of entrepreneurial activities or investments in the territories under it. Moreover, contributions are planned to support the transfer of a share of rubber goods to other modes, with particular reference to rail transport, with the forecast also of compensations for the concessionaire of the railway transport service. Article 8 establishes, within the territory of the Metropolitan City of Genoa, an urban free zone, with the granting of a series of tax concessions for the companies established there. Article 9 increases, for the years 2018 and 2019, the share of part of the Fund for the financing of the participations of adaptation of the ports recognized to the ports falling within the scope of the Authority of harbour system of the western Liguria Sea, assigning moreover to such Authority an additional contribution of 4,2 million euros for 2018. Article 9- bis disposes that the commissioner adopts an extraordinary program of urgent investments for the resumption and the development of the port and the relative infrastructures of accessibility and for the intermodal connection of the airport Christopher Columbus with the city of Genoa, to be realized to care of the Authority of harbour system with the application of the derogations already defined from article 1 of the decree-law in examination. Article 9-b, in order to safeguard the continuity of the harbour operations near the port of Genoa, extension of five years the authorization currently in course for the exercise of the activity of supply of temporary job and previews the possibility that a contribution for possible minor working days regarding the year 2017 is paid to the supplier subject. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator, I'm sorry, but it's more than 40 articles and you've run out of time. Since you're making the list, I'm gonna have to ask you to finish. RIPAMONTI, rapporteur. Chapter II contains provisions for the safety of the national infrastructure and transport network. Article 12 provides, as from 1 January 2019, for the establishment of the National Agency for the Safety of Railways and Road and Motorway Infrastructures (ANSFISA). Article 13 establishes, at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, the National Computer Archive of Public Works (AINOP), whose development responds to the need to ensure a constant verification of the state and the degree of efficiency of public works, in particular for safety profiles, also through the information obtained from the Dynamic Monitoring System for the safety of road and motorway infrastructure provided for in the following Article 14. This system, which is supervised by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport on the basis of data provided by the operators, will cover road and motorway infrastructure. Articles 15 and 15-a authorize recruitment of personnel by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and the Ministry of Justice. Article 16 supplements the powers of the Transport Regulatory Authority in the motorway sector. The article 16- bis extends, finally, to the interventions of extraordinary maintenance of the railway and road bridge San Michele on the Adda of Paderno D'Adda the provisions in force relative to the unblocking of the participations on the railway axes AV/AC Palermo-Catania-Messina and Naples-Bari. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u14	I call the rapporteur, Senator Patuanelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u15	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I join Mr Ripamonti in his thanks to the 8th and 13th Presidencies and Offices of the Commissions, which have worked with great skill, making it easier for us senators to work. I thank the forces of majority and opposition, which allowed the bill of conversion of the decree-law to arrive in the Assembly with the rapporteur in the times we had established. I will carry out the report with regard to the leaders from the III onwards of a decree-law that brings important measures for the enormous tragedy that struck Genoa and Liguria, but also for the whole Country, because Genoa is a city fundamental for the Italy system. This measure also brings to the attention of the Assembly additional elements of critical and emerging that the Government has collected (or found in the street) and that it is trying to resolve. I refer, therefore, to the interventions for the territory of the Municipalities of Casamicciola Terme, Forio, Lacco Ameno of the island of Ischia, for a combined arrangement of 20 articles (so not only one, as a misleading narration is trying to make passage). These are 20 articles which allow, first of all, to define the scope of the Extraordinary Commissioner, who modulates, remodulates and extends the functions of the Commissioner. Article 19 increases the Commissioner's special accounts by EUR 60 million. There are interventions concerning public reconstruction and private reconstruction, the criteria and general arrangements for granting contributions for private reconstruction; repair and reconstruction of damaged or destroyed buildings; immediate implementation and procedures for granting and making contributions. This is an earthquake that may have been treated as a B-series earthquake, but it is not. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] It has destroyed houses, lives, companies, economic and productive fabric, tourism; it has taken away two people, then two families and whole families destroyed by a tragedy. It was right, therefore, to deal, within a decree-law on emergencies, also of the emergency in Ischia, hit by an earthquake that has sometimes been called minor, for the damage it created, as to assume that there was a responsibility of the Ischitans for an earthquake that caused deaths. No one remembers, however, that that earthquake had an almost unique characteristic in Italian earthquakes, that is to have a very superficial epicenter, therefore very close to the ground. This has obviously amplified the effects of the earthquake itself. As far as Ischia is concerned, there are obviously funds for public reconstruction, the definition of implementing bodies, rules for legality and transparency, the qualification of economic operators and the identification of the Commissioner's structure. But there are also elements, perhaps more detailed, but very useful for a population hit so hard, that it no longer has a home, such as the extensions to the suspension of the time limits for the payment of IMU, TASI and TARI, the RAI fee, social security and welfare contributions and the premiums for compulsory insurance. There is the suspension of deadlines for notification of payment records and interventions aimed at economic recovery. There is also the infamous article 25, which is not a building pardon. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] It is not, because there is no opening of time limits for the submission of new applications. It is not, because no one who had no right yesterday to have the condoned house will have it today. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] It is not, because the procedure followed is the only one available in the legislation in force, i.e. that of Law No 47 of 1985: the only pardon that defined the procedures for issuing the practices. So, if we had referred to laws no. We would not have had the procedure in 1994 or 2003. Since this article intervenes exclusively to speed up the application procedure already submitted, the only possible reference was Law No 47 of 1985, Chapters IV and V. Having said that, let us consider what could happen if there were no Article 25: those houses, which are damaged and some of them collapsed, would be outside the procedure of access to contributions. I would remind you, however, that no part of the volume built without concession will be eligible for aid. Therefore, the parts of volume built in an abusive and condoned manner pursuant to Law No. 47 of 1985, the law of 1994 and the law of 2003, with the procedures that we impose today as acceleration, will have the possibility to be condoned according to the demand made fifteen or thirty years ago, but will obviously not have access to the contribution for the part of volume healed. I repeat: what happens if there is no Article 25? Those houses still have a pending question and until there is an expression on that question from the competent bodies, they will remain there as they have been there for 15 years, 20 years or 30 years. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But it happens that the owners of those houses, not having the opportunity to intervene to fix them and recover the damage caused by the earthquake, not only will they continue to have an abusive house, not only will they continue to live in it, but they will have a house weakened by the damage of the earthquake. This is the real danger and that is why we call for an acceleration of procedures to declare illegal the questions that are not in order with the pardon of belonging (so the condons of 1985, 1994 or 2003). Afterwards, applications which do not comply with the eligibility criteria of the application will be the subject of administrative and criminal demolition order; compared with those houses which would have been entitled to it, it is the State that should have guaranteed it thirty years ago and not today. It is the state that has not been able to answer in thirty years to citizens who have asked a question. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Today those houses will have a positive response, if they already had the eligibility requirements, or negative, if they did not have those requirements. We will then have put in place a system that will allow those owners to live in safer homes. Chapter II provides for further emergency interventions for the country concerning Central Italy: the measures for speeding up the reconstruction process and the functions of the Commissioner are to be remodelled. The resources allocated for reconstruction in areas affected by seismic events shall be unimaginable. Let's also expand those shirts that, with white gloves and with the contribution of all political forces, we had made very tight for small discrepancies, making a very simple operation of merging two procedures. What happens at the regional regulatory level is known: there are house plans and many regions have regulated them. It is therefore not a question of obtaining an administrative sanatorium of an action carried out which may be absent at any time. In order to access the contribution, the sanatorium provided for by the law is first carried out, after which, after obtaining the sanatorium, a request for the contribution can be made. In this case, the operation is simply to combine two procedures. In the project of reconstruction or repair of the building is also recovered the part made possibly according to the regional house floors and, also in this case, on the volume so healed does not apply the contribution. There are two other points I would like to mention. The first concerns Article 44 on the extraordinary treatment of wage integration for companies in crisis. Having reinstated the Cassa Integrazione Guadagni extraordinarye for companies in crisis that have a perspective is, in my opinion, a value of which even the center-left should be pleased. We try, in this way, to give some more guarantees to the workers of the companies, who are going through a crisis but have a perspective and who are unable to guarantee a productive activity due to liquidity problems. Therefore, thanks to this measure, the owners of these companies will be able to put for twelve months in Cassa Integrazione extraordinary earnings their employees in the biennium 2019-2020. I shall conclude quickly, because I fear that my time is almost running out, because I do not intend to escape, of course, the analysis of the other infamous article, Article 41. Today, after more than twenty years of sludge spreading, without ever being limited to the harmful contents of those sludges, including hydrocarbons and other pollutants, we realize that this is a problem for our health. We are aware of this, as we realize that it is a health problem even if the purifiers of our cities close. The purifiers that cannot reuse the sludge for their use in agriculture have no place to dispose of them and, therefore, have only one possibility, that to close them and to pour directly into the sea, in the case of sea towns, or in other canals the purified waters without the mud. That is what happens if we do not intervene with the new emergency standard. I do not repeat what we have already said about this rule in the Commission. All I'm saying is that there is a government commitment to regulate definitively, clearly and surely the problem of using sludge in agriculture. I am convinced that our Minister for the Environment, who is a general of the Carabinieri who has dealt with these issues throughout his life, persecuting those who did business with waste, will be able to issue a decree very quickly that will finally regulate this problem. Today, however, there is an emergency, which we treat with a sense of responsibility, great skill and competence. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u16	We address our greetings to a representation of students and teachers of the Higher Institute of Luigi Einaudi in Rome who attend our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u17	The minority rapporteur, Senator Margiotta, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the minority rapporteur, Senator Margiotta.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u18	Mr President, unfortunately, the government is inaugurating (and unfortunately the parliamentary majority adapts) the climate of monocameralism in fact. The measures are armored: it has been approved in the House and you do not want it to change in the Senate. And yet, there would be a lot to change. The good work of my colleagues, including the rapporteurs, to whom I acknowledge the commitment, could have had positive and important effects. But you don't want to change anything. We asked you to take the pardon out of Ischia. Connect Patuanelli, the problem is not the Ischia emergency. The problem is that pardon is not an emergency. It is very simple: pardon is not an emergency for anyone and, more importantly, it is not an emergency for us. Remove the sewage sludge: and I will return to this point. We correct the decree Genoa on some aspects, with some amendments, to signature of Senator Pinotti and Senator Vattuone, relative to the extension of the orange zone and to the aids to the harbour system, and we approve a decree-law that has an accomplished meaning and that it really aids the population of Genoa. But no, you wanted to insert measures that had nothing to do with it. There was a train running to Genoa, you slowed it down and you added wagons that bring mephitic things, and not just because we talk about mud. Mr Costa, quoted a moment ago by my colleague Mr Patuanelli, said that the only word of pardon makes me sick. Your minister. To us in the Democratic Party the only word pardon makes the vault stomach come! [[Applause from the PD Group]] Minister Delrio said in the last parliamentary term: never again condone. He said so and this was the Democratic Party line. Your minister says something else and you act by doing the condons. But on this point we will return. Right now, I want to go back to Genoa. You got it all wrong there, too. This morning on television I heard Chief Prosecutor Cozzi, whose authority seems to me to be indisputable and undisputed, who, compared to the Commissioner's protests because the yard is still under seizure and the demolition action cannot be initiated, said that they should thank him because if he returned the yard they would not know what to do. The pardon does not even solve the issue of demolition; one does not even know who must put his hand in it and how. The main road was not to make propaganda, not to seek guilty in political forces that had no responsibility. The main road was that of an old adage: who breaks, pays. I also think that Autostrade society for Italy has responsibilities; it was obliged to demolish and build the bridge, and then it was done in every way, even with the revocation that you invoked and that you did not do, so that, like all your propaganda words, you remain halfway, without knowing how to proceed. On the other hand, one day, poverty from the balconies is abolished; another one revokes the concession with a tweet, and meanwhile everything remains firm. The mechanism that you wrote in the decree-law, according to which Aspi pays, and, if it does not pay Aspi, a lender will refer to Aspi, seems very complex: good wishes, good wishes to our country, but above all to the citizens of Genoa who, through these complications, risk never seeing the road reconstructed. On the other hand, you have no culture of infrastructure: Toninelli one day realizes the Brenner tunnel; in another he does the X-ray of a viaduct on sight; in another he says that you can eat under a highway bridge. In the meantime, it's still. At least accept our common sense amendments, which give an immediate response to the citizens of Genoa, who no longer want to applaud the representatives of this Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u19	Senator Margiotta, forgive me for interrupting. Colleagues, the level of the buzz is unbearable. If there is no respect for the rapporteur, I would at least ask for respect for colleagues who want to listen to the rapporteur. Thank you. [[Applause.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u20	I'll be back. You have even rejected an agenda which called for it to continue in the work of the Third Pass. I understand the amendments, or rather I do not share them, but I understand them, but the ratio for which no agenda is approved, which says that we must proceed with the work of the Third Pass, is absolutely unknown. On the contrary, it is well known: you did not want to approve it in order to avoid problems between the two forces supporting this Government, one of which thinks that the Third Pass - right, Deputy Minister Rixi? - to be realized, and the other still has not decided and waits for a fantastic cost-benefit analysis, on which I will return during the reply, which cannot give any answer, as one expert of the matter has said, the same expert that you have appointed. The costs, in fact, are certain, at least at the end of the construction of the work; the benefits derive from a political choice, because what is beneficial for one political force is not for another. In fact, what did Ponti say in essence? That the decision is political. If it's political, then take it. We want to know if yes or no, if you want to make the Third Pass or you don't want to do it; do you want to do it? A word of clarity, of grace, is it possible to have it? Moreover, the cost-benefit analysis of a work with a progress rate of 40% is quite laughable. I'm going back to the pardon. During the earthquake of Ischia, only one building fell, which had raised a floor, putting at risk the safety of the family with children and third parties living there. The condones are also made of this, not only of the railings and balconies or of the canopies in the villas at the sea: they are made of more elevated planes in the seismic zone, of buildings made in the beehive of a river. People die, as happened in Sicily. But how can we fail to realize that, at a time like this, giving the only signal that Parliament is discussing condons is a very negative thing, which will lead to destruction and other deaths in this country? In conclusion, on the sludge, on which we will return, I remember the behavior of colleagues of Movimento 5 Stars, when painting black hands to mean that oil pollutes. Very good: the first measure they did was to increase very much the limits of possible hydrocarbon purification content in the sludge. It is the only thing you have done and, not contented, in the Chamber you have increased the concentration limits of chromium, arsenic, toluene and more in sludges that also end up in soils where food crops are grown, where what comes on our tables is cultivated. It is clear that we have supported and will support Mr Martelli's amendment, such as the first one by Mr De Bonis and a dozen other members of the Movimento 5 Star Group. They are consistent with what your party has said for five years; to you, it took two months for the government to forget everything [[Applause from the PD Group]] and to approve even a measure that to Regions like mine, in which there are oil extractions, will cause serious damage. But we will return to the substance of each of these amendments in the course of the debate, always hoping that there will be a whisper of dignity. Yesterday something important happened, which is vulgar to have been debilitating on personal matters, because it concerns serious and authoritative colleagues, who have proved to be so in their private and parliamentary lives. Yesterday, for the first time, the government went under in our Commissions, on Ischia's pardon, not by chance. You can force people, threaten and expel them from the party, but there will always be someone who will have autonomy, conscience and freedom of action and thought: these people will nail you to your responsibilities. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u21	The minority rapporteur, Senator Ferrazzi, has requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the minority rapporteur, Senator Ferrazzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are about to vote on today has many problems, dark points, issues that are only announced and unresolved or announced with the wrong words. This should have been the measure of Genoa, that is, what should have covered a drama of gigantic dimensions, a national shame, a thing that should never have happened and against which we must tell our bewilderment in a cross-cutting way, regardless of political membership, and of course also accompany public opinion, because the judiciary will obviously do its job, but it is absolutely not acceptable that in a country like ours such a fact should happen. The real issue, however, Mr President, is that in three months of work this Government has spoken of Genoa, but it has done practically nothing. What should have been the central measure, in fact, has been deprived of any efficiency and effectiveness in favor of the development of Genoa. This is completely evident also from a quantitative analysis, as well as qualitative, of the article of the decree-law: on 46 articles, only in 11 we talk about Genoa and then we talk about many other things, as we will have a widespread way of deepening during this discussion. The theme, however, is not only related to the fact that Genoa is spoken in only 11 articles. The central question is: is the emergency of Genoa resolved, through these 11 articles? Is there any certainty about reconstruction, its funding and who should it do it about? Well, these, which should have been the three central responses of the decree on Genoa, remain unanswered: here is the great weakness of the measure under consideration. In the Commission's work, Mr President, we had tabled a number of amendments to meet the needs of Genoa and the Genoese, and we will of course propose them here today, as the rapporteur, Mr Margiotta, said very well. We have tabled amendments to extend the effectiveness of measures beyond the red area, to the orange area, both for citizens and businesses. We have tabled amendments to increase the duration of the integration fund from one to two years and to double the size of the fund. We have tabled amendments in order to upgrade the participations on the port, that it is the great infrastructure of all the Italy North and not only of Genoa and the Genoese. We have proposed and will propose today the creation of the special economic zone. We have proposed interventions for the social and health sector. We have called for the participation of citizens and transparency measures, because an entire community has been struck to death and the same must be recalled for its resurrection. All these amendments have been rejected during the work of the Joint Commissions and we will return to this House, calling all senators and senators to their responsibilities. Then there is something shameful in our view. Behind the emergency in Genoa you hid the crap of Ischia's pardon. Beware, colleagues, forgiveness is not a novelty for our country and, above all, for one of the two political forces - I am referring to the League - that make up the current Government. In Republican history only three condones were made: in 1985, with the Craxi Government; in 1994, with the Berlusconi I Government, supported by the League; in 2003, with the Berlusconi II Government, supported by the League. In the fourth pardon - what we are talking about today - the League once again supports the culture of pardon. They say to me that, when the pardon was voted in Parliament in 2003, the current vice-premier Salvini rebelled in Milan and organized a protest movement. Today, however, the same political force, of which he became the head, promotes pardon for the fourth time in the history of the Republic. The talk of forgiveness is quite obvious; it has nothing to do with sanatoria. I invite everyone to look into the subject. Sanatorium is an intervention that is part of a normal administrative procedure. According to the single text of the building, the sanatorium can be granted by the manager or official of the municipality, because the intervention for which the application is made is totally inside, with the dual concept of conformity, of what is foreseen by the urban planning city. Condon is a whole other thing, because it refers to something that is not provided for by urban planning at the time it is done, or when the application for sanatoria is made. There is therefore a need for a special law and, in fact, today in Ischia it would not be possible to reopen the pardon in the absence of this special law. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the fact not only because it has been explained in detail by all the research institutes of a territorial and urbanistic nature and also by "Il Sole 24 Ore" but also because at least the ABC of the norm had to be evident to all senators and senators. Mr President, of course we are totally opposed to pardoning Ischia. We are surprised that another political force that supports this Government - I am referring to the 5 Star Movement - fought against the condones when it was in opposition. We remember the current vice premier Di Maio when, in a public event I think in South Italy, he said he would never sign a pardon. Too bad that the third signature of the measure is his own and, under dictation, the first signature is by Minister Toninelli. It is, however, a pardon for the considerable quantity. In Ischia, out of 64,000 inhabitants, there are 28,000 practices presented and in the three municipalities to which the provision refers the inhabitants are 13,000 and the practices open 6,000. The second central question concerns urgent measures for the municipalities of Central Italy, namely the 140 municipalities of the four regions affected by the earthquake. Well, this is a preventive issue; we have also tabled a number of amendments for this. A great deal of work had been done by the previous Commissioners, a sewing work, in collaboration with local authorities, trade associations, citizens and regions, regardless of political affiliations. In fact, when environmental disasters occur, we do not go to see the political color, but we go to look at the dignity of the institution that represents everyone. Mr President, in this case too, we should like to point out that the earthquake decree, which was adopted a few months ago, has already made speeches. For example, the possibility of healing small discrepancies was given, precisely to facilitate reconstruction. We note here, however, a leap in scale; it was not only inserted, as already foreseen by the previous Commissioner, the acceptance of the increase in volume by 20%, according to the dictates of the Home Floor, but a real general pardon is made. This has been explained and well told; we do not agree with this, because we believe that reconstruction must be done, maintaining the quality of life, the safety of citizens and even - if allowed - a little 'public morality because behind the pardon hides everything. The last question, Mr President, as the rapporteur, Mr Margiotta, explained, concerns the spreading of sludge. The subject is serious; we do not demagogy and do not change our coats, flags and behaviors depending on whether we are in government or opposition, as the current majority forces do. The question of sludge is a real issue, but it is completely wrong to include it in the measure in our examination. The sludge needs an organic measure. Since the law does not allow in the winter months the spreading of sludge in the fields from December to February, there is all the time to remove the articles related to this theme, to put us around a table and prepare a serious and thorough articulation, without overfalcioni, thus giving an organic response to the real needs of the territory. The last issue concerns emergencies. Since the provision to our examination was to be the decree of emergencies, if we want to speak of emergencies, besides Genoa, which is the mother emergency from which the provision starts and for which we must give all our contribution and support, there is an emergency that was born in our cities, in our territories, in eleven regions that in the weeks spent have asked for the state of emergency. You have removed, killed and denied Casa Italia and Italy safe, which were the mission units and departments that gave real response to the seismic and hydrogeological emergency. We propose the inclusion of these mission structures and funds within the measure to respond to the tragedies that are taking place for citizens and businesses. From Veneto to Sicily there have been events that had never happened in our country, in the heart of the Dolomites, for example, as we will have the opportunity to deepen with the examination of the amendments. We must then give answers. Don't you want to give it here? For you the emergency is forgiveness and not support the communities seriously affected by the environmental disaster of recent weeks? Have the decency to make an ad hoc measure because the territories are waiting for immediate answers. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u23	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Coltorti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what is common to the issues dealt with in the Genoa Decree? Emergencies, problems to solve as soon as possible. We must ask ourselves whether a disaster of this magnitude is avoidable and who is responsible for it, so that we do not risk suffering from it. The easiest thing is to associate the disaster with the lack of maintenance on the part of the dealer, but how not to call in question who gave this asset and then did not check the private? The past governments have introduced rules for which they control and control are the same. The private sector wants maximum income with minimal spending and Autostrade is the most striking example: billions of turnover and a few hundred million investments for maintenance and safety. Public management does not work when the manager does not control or is corrupt. The slogan "Privatise" is necessary to the excuse to give friends and friends of friends the public thing and get favors and funding to the party and or directly from our pockets. The collapse of the bridge has shown that dozens and dozens of bridges need intervention. We are not just talking about bridges; schools, the whole road network and tunnels are not in conformity and Europe will soon send us fines. You who ruled before us have left us a fine inheritance. Now the most common accusation that is being made to the Movement is that it has committed a pardon. That it is not so it seems evident if you read the decree-law and look at the common good. In Ischia the norm is for buildings that have suffered damage and have suspended pardon practices. The practices we are talking about are before 2003. Those who preceded us and managed the Campania Region for years and even most local administrations would have had to close these practices and go to the renovation of the buildings or, in case of non-compliance, to their demolition. The world, however, is full of people like Pontius Pilate, who do not take the responsibilities that are theirs as administrators. Ischia is a fragile ecosystem and for this reason reconstruction needs a seismic adjustment and compliance with landscape, safety and hydrogeological failure, which are provided for in the measure. Those who asked the State, even more than 15 years ago, are entitled to an answer. If there are questions suspended, they prevent us from closing open practices with the 2017 earthquake. In addition, it is not a question of hundreds of thousands of buildings, as some people in the Commission yesterday did. It's less than a thousand buildings. We come to the earthquake of Central Italy, where rules have been introduced for a reconstruction that, more than two years later, has yet to take off. Apart from the appointment of a commissioner, the commissioner's structure has been simplified and mayors have been admitted to the directing booth. The compensation has been provided for administrators of condominiums and consortia of owners. Significant is the 50% advance of the expenses incurred by professionals. The firms carrying out investigations had stopped doing so because, in the face of an operating performance, it did not correspond to an economic return. One wonders how it is possible that so many billions have been spent and the reconstruction is still on the stake. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The main question is how these billions have been spent. They have been spent in useless bankings and in works of accomodation and containment of the slopes to build wooden houses, which in these days are molding and need treatment. Earthquake families are living in unhealthy environments and must momentarily abandon them. These are stratospheric figures, which reach up to 6,500 euros per square metre. And these works will be demolished at the end of the emergency, with other huge expenses for the restoration of the places. It has been shored up with everything and more, including buildings that should have been demolished. About 200,000 euros have been spent on props. But what controls have the Commissioner and the subcommissiars carried out? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It has been allowed that one could spend without any competition and with high compensation for designers without auctions. There were the mayors who, in the face of a new staff, hired administrative and lawyers and not even a technician, as if the whole game were playing at a bureaucratic level. But how many buildings could have been rebuilt with the hundreds of thousands of euros used for props? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The pardon was also invoked for Central Italy. Among the rules introduced is the one that allows to regularize the discrepancies up to 20% of the cube when no structural interventions have been made responsible for the damage of the structure. One forgets that the Regions, with the introduction of the Home Floor, allow to increase the volumes of a building up to 20-30 percent. The PD in the Commission criticized the Home Plans, forgetting that many of the Regions where they were introduced and applied are managed by the PD. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] In practice, buildings with slight discrepancies should have been demolished, but then, by submitting the application in the Region, they could have been rebuilt. I understand that demolishing and rebuilding causes more money to circulate, and so there is more chance of giving assignments and public money to friends. But where is the good government? Compliance shall only take place for buildings where stability is ensured as a result of a technical expert's expertise. In Central Italy, like Ischia, the portions of building that were not according to standard do not receive money. Calling this pardon is pure hypocrisy. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u25	He's enlisted to speak Senator Briziarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u26	Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, Mr Ripamonti and Mr Patuanelli, for making some clarity - and we will do more with the speeches - on the lies and falsehoods, these yes, which have been spread beyond the limits of the law by the PD in the country and also today in this House. Very often we regret that the citizens stop only under the title of newspapers or measures. Well, at least something more should be done here, Senator Ferrazzi, because to complain that on 46 articles only 11 speak of Genoa means not to have read that this decree-law is also the decree Genoa, besides the decree on the safety of the national net of infrastructures and the transports, on the seismic events of 2016 and 2017 and on the job and on the other emergencies. We should know at least the title, if not the content of the measure: at least that, to those who sit in Parliament, we ask for it, because otherwise it would be misleading the citizens. These emergencies have a thread that unites them: the thread of direct or indirect responsibility of those who have led us to this situation. For months we have heard the League and Movimento 5 Stars accuse us of not being responsible and not being a government force. Well, being a government force means giving answers, those answers that you have not been able to give so far. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Responses on the controls and interventions of a country whose infrastructure literally falls apart, with the responsibility of providing a network of plants that avoids the emergency, for example, for sludge; responses in terms of bureaucracy. Coming to the credit, I begin - allow me - from the earthquake of Central Italy, recalling what happened in the phase of conversion into law of Decree-Law No. 55 of 2018. In that debate, in a vehement manner, the PD, on the one hand, claimed the merits of the Commissioners and, on the other hand, accused us of not doing enough. I would like to remind you that we introduced first responses to the pending sanatories and to the small discrepancies. Well, in the course of that discussion, Senators Margiotta and Ferrazzi (I could recall even after the position of the PD) not only certain things you said to her, but you wrote them and voted for them, because amendment 1.75 signed by Verducci, Ginetti, Grimani, that all the Senators of the PD present voted, recited (I read only a few passages): In the presence of buildings damaged by seismic events, for which as a result of a request to pardon pursuant to Laws Nos 47 of 1985, Nos 724 of 1994 and 326 of 2003, the municipality has failed to grant or authorize in sanatorium, the certification of static or seismic fitness, if required for the purposes of the concession, may be replaced by the authorization granted by the administration responsible for the seismic constraint, in relation to the repair or reconstruction project of the damaged building, after acquisition of the acquittal by the professional in charge, in respect of the fact that the constructive characteristics of the interventions related to the abuses healed have not been the sole cause of the damage. In the case of interventions carried out before seismic events in the absence of a permit to build or in discrepancy with it, or in the absence of a certified report... or in discrepancy with it, the owner of the property, even if different from the person responsible for the abuse, may submit, even at the same time as the application for contribution, request for a permit in sanatoria and obtain it (...)............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Well, Senator Ferrazzi, it's not that you change your mind only from when you're in the majority to when you're in the minority, but you also change your mind from when you're in the minority to when you're in the minority. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] I would also like to remind you - as my colleague Mr Coltorti has already done - that the Presidents of the Umbria and Marche regions, for example, were asking what we, as we promised today, have completed, with the detection of 20% of maximum discrepancies and not providing contributions regarding any additional volumes. Having said that - and it really takes courage to say that there is no propaganda - the last passage of my speech I would like to dedicate to Ischia, saying that this is not the reopening of a pardon, but it is the closure of a pardon for thirty-three years. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] In fact, if the answers have not arrived, the fault is of those who, at municipal, regional and national level, ruled and did not or did not make sure that others did. I give a list of the political color of the mayors, the Presidents of the Region and the Governments, for the sake of time. To close a pardon means to give answers, to break down what is to be brought down and to heal what is to be healed. And we do it in an even more restrictive way, because not all of us will be able to request it at the level of the subjects (those who have been convicted by Mafia association will not be able to do so) and not everything will be healed (if it is in seismic, hydrogeological or landscape differences, the contribution will not be received). I could say then that PD looks like a wolf that loses its hair, but not vice, when it's actually a coyote, like Willy the coyote, in whose trap we, who run to give answers to citizens, will not fall anyway. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u27	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education (Campus dei Licei Massimiliano Ramadù) of Cisterna di Latina, in the province of Latina, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, it is right - I believe for all of us - to express feelings of closeness and solidarity to the citizens of Genoa and to those who have lost, in that tragic collapse, family and friends. We are all next to you and I am sure that the city, supported by a proud, courageous and determined people, will find the strength to leave. It is our moral and political duty not to leave you alone and to accompany you in the best way on this difficult path. The decree-law that this House is preparing to approve today contains a number of significant and very important measures, which respond to the needs of different territories, responses to very complex situations and unpredictable events, as well as to situations for which, in all sincerity, it could have been possible, not to say due, to act in time. It is not a controversy, ladies and gentlemen, but a simple fact. The text takes concrete action to deal with emerging situations. The Commission must therefore also take note of the work carried out with determination and speed. Doing quickly and doing well has been the paradigm that has guided the government's action in recent months, in this and in many other circumstances. [[Comments of Senator Pinotti.]] To claim the opposite, as has been done in recent weeks by some of the opposition's colleagues, would be to be ascribed to mere propaganda, then aimed at not knowing what illusory benefits. I understand that this is about perception, human sensitivity, political sensitivity, contact with reality. Someone, perhaps, has lost this contact: perhaps, but it is my opinion. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] However, I advise you not to seek this contact by attacking the work of those who have worked and are working, as in the case of this decree-law, to compensate for years and years of neglect and total disinterest. [[Comments of Senator Pinotti]] Years in which it was preferred to turn to the other side and pretend not to see to unload on others the responsibilities of shortcomings and inadequacy of a sick political class, indifferent, deaf and perched on indefensible positions. [[Comments of Senator Pinotti]] Today we are finally giving instruments, funds to territories, businesses and workers. Say that we are opposed to the works and infrastructure, that we block the country, this is your daily mantra. [[Protests of Senator Bellanova]] No, ladies and gentlemen, we are not against it. Simply on behalf of the citizens and on behalf, very heavy, conferred on March 4, we are trying to get this country torn apart by you. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] With a final roadmap and medium- and long-term objectives, dealing with emergencies as in this case. Basically, we're avoiding doing what you did. FARAONE (PD). Thank you! MALPEZZI (PD). You're not doing anything! CASTALDI (M5S). We spend on useful works. You did useless work just to spend. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let's do our part, in short, as it should be, because someone in a not too far past has forgotten to do his. [[Comments of Senator Bellanova]] MIRABELLI (PD). It's about the decree! CASTALDI (M5S). I respect you, Senator Bellanova, when you intervene, even when you say things outside the world. I'll call you back to silence. [[Protests from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u29	You must address the Presidency, Senator Castaldi, not other politicians, thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u30	CASTALDI (M5S). A mention of the well-known case of the safety of the A24 and the A25, since they are Abruzzo, I want to do so. After ten years of nothing absolute, hearing the accusations made to the majority and the government really has ridicule. To those in the Abruzzo PD, and also national, who have tried by every means at their disposal to provide a distorted view of the facts, I respond with the concrete measures contained in this measure that arrives, I repeat, after ten very long years of absolute nothingness. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Ripamonti]] The fruits of this nothing you will reap, just as you collected them on March 4, also at the regionals of February 2019. [[Comments of Senator Pharaoh]] Turning back to the measures contained in the measure, I would like to express particular satisfaction not only for the reasons already listed and mentioned but also for some particular provisions which, in my humble opinion, go in the right direction. I am referring to the dynamic monitoring system for safety, the establishment of the National Agency for the Safety of Railways, Road and Motorway Infrastructures and the national computer archive of public works. There was nothing. The objectives that we intend to achieve with these measures are different: to guarantee high safety standards and to have contience and immediate feedback on technical data, state and degree of efficiency of the works, on the ordinary maintenance activity and on the state of the work. In short, on the table, finally, there are tools and solutions to manage the emergency and to turn a definite page compared to the past. A thank you to the Government, thanks to the citizens of parliament of the Movimento 5 Stars and thanks to colleagues of the League for working with the aim of ensuring better and more efficient management of the territory, infrastructure and resources. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Colleagues, since I still have some time, I would like to turn to those who took the opposition last night to intervene on a subject that is not there. We make them talk about a pardon that isn't there. This is really serious. MIRABELLI (PD). But it says so! CASTALDI (M5S). For the ingenuity of having written the word "condon" on the decree. There's no pardon. If within six months and after six months and one day there is no answer, as there has been in the last thirty years because the mayors you have had no courage to make a decision, there will be silence-reject. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Ironic comments from the PD Group.]] We have therefore inspired Marcucci - and I tell our two senators - to send a text message to Renzi, who is absent from the Commission, to bring out an agency news last night. [[Comments of Senator Pharaoh]] Then they left. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] At 9.30 p.m., the oppositions left: only for the Democratic Party were colleagues Ferrazzi, Margiotta and two senators. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senator Malpezzi]] So, colleagues of the majority, of the 5 Star Movement and of the League, we're doing great: forward like this. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]] MALPEZZI (PD). We want last night's encore! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You are registered to speak Senator Nastri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u31	Mr President, there has certainly been so much emphasis on the part of my colleague, but he has not said that this measure reaches the Senate with a different text than that issued by the Council of Ministers, especially in relation to its original purpose and the connection with the tragedy of Genoa. Born in fact as a decree Genoa and archived also in the first reading with great delays and with great worry, it has been infarcito of norms and, above all, of implementing decrees - even 42, regarding the 27 initially previewed, as the colleagues have said well that have preceded me - whose effects, linked to the timing - according to us, but also according to the whole Italy - will not be able to fail to alarm the extraordinary commissioner for the reconstruction of the Morandi bridge, the mayor of Genoa Marco Bucci, which certainly goes our great applause. [[Applause from Senator Ruspandini]] Three months have passed since the collapse and from that moment no horizon of restoration of normality and everyday life is still visible; there is no official strategy. In fact, there is a lack of the basis and instruments on which to act. We would like to remind Mr Toninelli, once again absent from this House that, if this decree-law had been well written, it would already be in force and, if it is so important today, it is because, in doing so, we give at least certain rules, we govern, avoiding the Commissioner, Mayor Bucci, to go to jail the day after the approval of the decree, which would have happened if the provision had passed as Mr Toninelli wanted. This, however, will not happen, thanks to the work of Parliament, or rather in this case only of the House, since we did not have the time to be able to amend the text in the Senate. It has to be said that each of us here represents the citizens, regardless of the party we belong to and the fact that we are the majority or the opposition. We have tried to improve things according to different optics and, if we had not found in this decree-law provisions that have nothing to do with the case of Genoa, the commissioner today would already be at work and the money for the reconstruction of the bridge would already be there yesterday. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] In this context we are called upon to examine and vote in this House a decree born weak from the beginning, which came into force with a resounding delay. We are faced with a sort of omnibus decree, because in the provision - as I have already said - we are not talking only about Genoa, having been inserted different themes. Once again the government's speech of foresight has failed. We would have expected a special law for Genoa; in the end, instead, we have a coacervo of astruse norms, as well as heterogeneous, and for nothing in harmony with the original purpose. The decree Genoa sought to be a special law, while what we are about to vote is not the decree for Genoa, nor a special law for Genoa, as already said. It is a decree, so to speak, "Macedonia" in which many other emergencies have found space, near and far earthquakes, recent and very recent tragedies. And all this is well to come, but to everything we have given answers often wrong and certainly never complete. As I said, courage and vision have been lacking, two categories that distinguish the political class of low labour from the one that has a broader vision than what you are demonstrating today. I would add that the time we had of disposition for the examination of the 46 articles was very tight, considering that the decree-law must be converted by the end of this month. The Brothers of Italy Group, both in the Chamber and in the Senate, had from the beginning a serene approach, a sharing and often also an idea of what should have been, constructively, the measure under consideration. And we certainly did it out of respect for Genoa, its victims and its citizens. Immediately after the August tragedy we were available, in a patriotic spirit, ready to put aside the instrumental polemics that have been there since the beginning, because we immediately understood that there was a serious problem and we had to intervene immediately. There are a lot of economic damage: we are talking about about EUR 422 million. In reading the original text, however, we have expressed a politically strict and clear judgment. Indeed, the measure that came out of the Council of Ministers was truly unacceptable, absurd, as has also been confirmed by the people who have been audited in the Chambers, who have certainly not expressed a political assessment, but only evaluations in order to help remedy everything that has unfortunately been destroyed. Not only the institutional representatives - and I am talking about the President of the Toti Region, the Mayor of Genoa and then the Commissioner - but everyone has clearly said that the text must be improved. In this context, the changes that took place at first reading in the House, also thanks - as mentioned earlier - to our Group's colleagues, have rebalanced the overall scenario of the regulatory system, in order to correct the many obvious misdeeds approved by the Council of Ministers. The first part of the decree-law lacked the most important component, the one dedicated to tackling the emergency and the situation of Genoa, both for the displaced and for the demolition and reconstruction of the bridge. Of course, one cannot fail to point out here that the text contains norms that have nothing to do with Genoa, first of all with regard to the building pardon and sanatoria on Ischia, which have occupied also the high plans of the Government, which has followed a further measure of pardon for the 140 municipalities of Central Italy affected by the two earthquakes of 2016. Yesterday's adoption of the amendment to Article 25 in the Environment and Public Works Commissions, which saw a majority vote on the building allowance of Ischia, says a lot about this gruesome part of the measure under consideration. Brothers of Italy will continue to watch. We will not stop in denouncing rules such as those provided for in this decree-law, which introduce - and it must be said - a sanatoria applicable in the absence of any request for authorisation passed, with a tolerance limit of 20% of the existing cubing. With this decree-law the so-called environmentalism is born, with the capital C, of this Executive, which establishes a new definition of national sanatoria. We are faced with a far-reaching sanatoria. The text before us, in addition to receiving strong reservations from the Senate and Chamber Budget Service on financial cover, in particular on the funds made available to the Extraordinary Commissioner for the reconstruction of the bridge, also contains clear contradictions, despite the additional improvements, and needs - in my opinion - a review, because much more needs to be done. I am referring to the establishment of the National Infrastructure Security Agency. If we are to inaugurate a new season of control, vigilance, maintenance and stitching of a wounded country, which sees its bridges collapse and its infrastructure shake, we should have done so by starting again from Genoa, which had to be and still today should be the heart, the fulcrum and the brain of this new season. So how little or nothing is disposed in order to throw again the port - if we speak little - heavily hit by the consequences of the tragedy of the collapse of the Morandi bridge: an entire economy, that harbour one, that regards the marine port of call perhaps more important in Italy, whose shipowners, not only Genoese, are already diverting their goods towards Marseilles and Barcelona. Genoa and Italy may have deserved a faster, more reliable and reassuring answer. Our amendments, both to the House and to the Senate, went in this very direction, that of filling the initial, enormous and obvious shortcomings of the measure. Let's remember that there was nothing at first for the displaced and the people who lost their homes, who were rightly outraged by such carelessness and lack of response from the government. At some point we have come to terms with the sense of responsibility, following the counsel given by the wise men of the past, telling those who had the judgment to use it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Nastri. NASTERS (FdI). We have used it and for this reason we have met the needs not so much of the Government, but above all of the Genoese. We would have expected something more from this Government of change, but unfortunately there has been a lack of a broader vision than an important problem. There has been a lack of foresight which is certainly the most important quality in a political class. In all this we have tried to make our contribution, although our amendments have unfortunately been completely rejected. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u32	Senator Pazzaglini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u33	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I have seen all the work in the Commission as part of the 13th The Commission, with some dismay in the face of certain demonstrations and statements by its colleagues, has even suggested the possibility that the conditions for the adoption by the Government of the instrument of decree would not be met. Let's go then to see what are the prerequisites for the government's decision-making activity: necessity and urgency. It has been said that the urgency may not exist, because we go to intervene on facts that have had their genesis in distant or medium distant periods, such as the seismic swarm, begun in 2016, that has hit four Regions of Central Italy and that - I remind everyone - is still in progress. It is not only the topicality of the event, however, that fully justifies the presence of urgency, but also - everyone always remembers the 299 deaths caused directly by the event, but not the victims who, later on, have registered themselves - those people who took their lives for despair, frustration and the impossibility of seeing a perspective and their own future in a situation that the State had the duty to resolve, but which unfortunately has seriously worsened. As far as current affairs are concerned, many of us may have seen a service aired the day before yesterday on a national channel, which fully demonstrated the current situation of the SAE inhabitants (emergency housing solutions), called cabins by the occupants to diminish not only the size, but probably also the value; solutions that should have been adapted to accommodate people for the period necessary for the reconstruction and that, after a few months from their realization, are already rotting: ceilings and floors are rotting. These solutions are proving to be completely inadequate to what their purpose was. And, if this is not urgent, then I would really like to understand what an urgency is for colleagues in the Democratic Party, who have also come to imply that there was no ethics in this modus operandi. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] So I would like to understand one thing: where is ethics in spending tens of millions on interventions that are proving completely inadequate? Where is ethics in not giving answers to people who only asked for that? Where is the ethics in rejecting and blocking a reconstruction that will probably be the most important done in Italy? And where is ethics in not allowing, to whom is fully entitled to rebuild, to do so? If everyone points their finger at the few irregularities in Central Italy, nobody remembers that those few irregularities also block those irregularities. The reconstruction, in fact, will be done for aggregates: more people than for technical needs will have to rebuild together and they are blocked together, often for a problem that does not in any way affect the substance and solidity of the building but that, due to administrative problems, blocks the reconstruction. This is what we are doing: not a new pardon, as blamelessly and irresponsibly some colleagues in the Democratic Party have implied, but we are simply giving answers. It is true, in fact, that pardon is not a right, but it is a right to have the answers; and it is a right so acclaimed that we have also come to discipline it with an institution present in our legal system, that of silence assent. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] So, we're not introducing a new pardon. We are simply saying that the answer is a right and we are taking responsibility for giving answers, as provided for in Article 25, which I want to read because - as a colleague has already said - the superficiality and banality of certain interventions even stop at the titles of the articles. (at 12:03 a.m.) (Following Crazy.) Then we read Article 25, called, disgusted and accused of being responsible for who knows what nefariousness on the part of colleagues of the opposition, and which, literally, reads: The municipalities referred to in Article 17, paragraph 1, define the requests for forgiveness relating to the buildings destroyed or damaged by the earthquake of 21 August 2017, presented in the present case. And I repeat "presented": we do not reopen a new pardon, but we answer the questions submitted. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] In addition to this, in paragraph 2 we say that: The Municipalities referred to in Article 17, paragraph 1, shall ensure, also through the indication of specific conferences of the services, the conclusion of the procedures for examining the aforementioned requests for forgiveness, within six months. I repeat "conclusion of proceedings within six months"! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from Senator Bellanova.]] ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Bravo! Enough with the mystifications! Crazy people (L-SP-PSd'Az). The possibility of going to reward those who were in an irregular situation was then hypothesized. I then read the third paragraph of Article 25: The procedure for granting the contributions referred to in this decree shall be suspended in the proceedings for the examination of the requests for forgiveness and their payment shall be subject to the acceptance of the applications. Only those who are in a position to meet the requirements get the answer on the application for pardon and contribution. [[Senator Laus' comments.]] There was talk of remodulating the Commissioner's duties. The one that will be remembered as the worst reconstruction of history, still on the stake after two years, we are trying hard to restart and to make it start again with common sense. We have been accused of having harmed the prerogatives of the Regions because we have expressly provided that the commissioner can only communicate to the Regions his own ordinances. There are sixty-nine orders to be remodeled. And I would just like to see how those who have adopted those ordinances, that is the Regions - as has been done - can play an active role in their remodulation. So, simply with a little common sense, we have said that the Commissioner, having to unblock a reconstruction that is still, will be able to take responsibility for choosing, or deciding what politics has not done so far. I welcome the work done so far by the Government, my fellow majority rapporteurs and by the whole of Parliament. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Four. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u35	Ladies and gentlemen and members of the Government, this decree-law gives concrete answers to those who lose their homes, businesses and workers; it supports local public transport, port logistics, its resumption and its development. It also promotes exceptional security measures of the national infrastructure and transport network by setting up a security agency, a public works computer archive and a dynamic infrastructure monitoring system. For the first time in Italy the emergency is transformed into prevention. It is the cultural revolution of this Government with three prodigious S: support, development and security. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Pazzaglini]] In other emergencies we overcome inefficiencies and delays accumulated over a decade by as many as five governments in the last five destructive Italian earthquakes. Article 25 is not a pardon. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] RENZI (PD). No! FOURTH (M5S). After reprehensible building condones and bad managements of abuse - still in place - are not tolerable politically differentiated and clearly instrumental behaviors. It's not a pardon. For the primacy of truth, it is the definition of forgiveness procedures, established for decades, in order to access contributions for reconstruction, within programs of reduction of seismic and hydrogeological risk situations. To deny to infinity an answer downgraded the applicants to children of a lesser God. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] In the Commission it was narrated as a means of mass destruction, because tens of thousands of badly built abusive houses would be condoned. It's exactly the opposite. Defining the few condone practices envisaged, in order to allow those who have the requisites, and in compliance with the landscape constraints, to access the contributions, means making the building heritage safer. As a geophysicist, I tell you that the frequent Ischian earthquakes, weak in magnitude but very strong in shaking, do not ring the bell when they arrive. And if they find vulnerable homes, because of bureaucratic slowness, they'll tear them down, including people. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Article 25 establishes a right and can save life. Let me turn to Article 41 which contains urgent provisions on the management of sewage sludge. In a deafening political silence, aggressive and poisonous agricultural practices have been tolerated. Where were the current improvised censors in the last 26 years, in the Bahamas? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] To that date, Legislative Decree No. 99 of 1992 which allows and regulates the spreading of sludge on agricultural soils. In that decree the heavy hydrocarbons C10-C40, as well as many other toxic and carcinogenic substances, are not included. The Lombardy Region set a limit of 10 grams per kilogram of dry matter for heavy hydrocarbons. There was an appeal and, last July, the TAR established that for C10-C40 in the sludge the limit of 50 milligrams per kilo of dry matter, provided for the reclamation of the soils by Legislative Decree no. 152 of 2006. While understanding the ratio of the judgment, the above limit concerns the soil system, which is composed of the most polluting soil. The limit of the TAR, applied only to mud, would in fact have prevented its expansion, with serious problems of temporary storage and necessity of treatment, landfilling or incineration instantly. Article 41 provides for such a serious emergency. For heavy hydrocarbons, considering that not all are carcinogenic and are naturally present in the organic substance, the limit of 50 milligrams per kilo in the sludge is in fact currently improbable. As an expert in geophysical monitoring for precision agriculture, I tell you that hydrocarbons are also naturally formed in agricultural and forestry soils. The simple fall of the leaves in a forest can cause concentrations of hydrocarbons well above the limit of 50 milligrams per kilogram, as the international literature states. But how do you think fossil hydrocarbons are formed, excuse me? In this emergency decree a limit of 1,000 milligrams per kilogram is established for C10-C40. This means that in the soil system affected by the spreading, the mud will weigh at most ten milligrams per kilogram of dry matter, net of various removals, well below the limits of Law No 152 of 2006. In addition, heavy metals - cadmium, mercury, nickel, lead, copper and zinc - are recorded in Legislative Decree No 99 of 1992, and IPA, toluene, selenium, iodide, arsenic, chromium, etc. are added. They will finally be monitored and not allowed. Therefore, the decree-law guarantees greater safety on the origin and quality of the sludge: let's take a significant step forward. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Since the Commission has also been told of the uncriterious spread of sludge on existing crops, as if they were scattered - I do not know - on salads and tomatoes, I would like to say that, in this case, they are prohibited by the aforementioned legislative decree, as well as in horticultural and fruit crops in the ten months preceding the harvest. However, the incipit of Article 41 is as follows: In order to overcome critical situations in the management of sewage sludge, in the mores of an organic review of sector legislation, etc. The legislation - as the rapporteur has said well and as Minister Costa has repeatedly said - will be revised. We're not gonna do ostriches like the guys before us. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Even in the case of sludge, we are on the side of the environment, healthy agriculture and life, but definitely against falsehoods and exploitations. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u36	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u37	Mr President, Mr Government representative, I am speaking briefly just to highlight one point. When the decree on the earthquake was made - among other things, through a work quite accomplished and complex, because there was still the special commission - the need for a series of interventions closely linked to the question of reconstruction, which today we find in the decree Genoa, particularly in article 39-b. I am referring to the Senators of the Movimento 5 Stars, because the situation was unlocked when Di Maio visited Ischia. Surely, if there had been a little extra attention on their part - in our humble opinion - this rule, together with that concerning Ischia - we had made it for both the latter and for Central Italy - would have found its normal place in the earthquake decree, without wasting the time that was lost, because that was done even before the summer. In essence, I claim that the battle that has been waged by our Group in order to have, in the absence of title and differences, the possibility to intervene on questions - and therefore to rebuild - has only been caught now. Mr President, I want to say something. I don't know what the problem with terms is. In the end, what matters is the practical result. Whether it is reached through the pardon - a word that everyone fears - or anything else does not matter. We are talking about areas that are in an emergency situation, where reconstruction does not go on because houses do not have housing titles. So, I'd come out of the pardon trip, also because yesterday I heard a member of the Grillo Movement mess up the condons of the Berlusconi Government and that of the Craxi Government. Therefore, I think it is appropriate to say that something is being done which is urgently needed by the people. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Faith. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, even today, as we speak here, thousands of our fellow citizens are in enormous difficulty outside their homes and with enormous uncertainty about their future, and this after more than two years from the beginning of the seismic events of August 2016. Already the fact that, after more than two years, we are still talking about emergency, as well as a distortion of the Italian language, is an unequivocal and indisputable sign of the umpteenth failure of the political class that preceded us. The fact that criticism of this measure comes from there, from those who have managed the reconstruction up to now, with unfortunately almost non-existent results, and after proposing far more permissive measures than ours, is instead the unequivocal sign that this political class has definitively lost sight of the good of the citizens, as well as the reality. Our measure comes from listening to the real problems reported by citizens, professional orders, experts in the protection of the territory and local administrators. And it is no coincidence that it has been warmly welcomed, as a liberation, even by governors of regions administered by the Democratic Party. That alone should put an end to any controversy. On the other hand, we must witness a final attempt to delay the reconstruction which would finally allow tens of thousands of our fellow citizens to start their normal lives again and the state's coffers to save on the costs of autonomous accommodation, while at the same time stimulating the economy of the affected areas through the drive of the sectors involved, obviously starting from construction. In recent days - and even today - there has been a great deal of talk about the issue of so-called condones, discrepancies or abuses in buildings affected by the earthquake. This is an important and sensitive issue and, for this reason, I would like to focus on the aspects contained in the so-called emergency decree. First of all, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind all of you and those who follow the parliamentary debate that is the subject of the so-called emergency decree - it has already been said, but it is fair to say - are the only procedures still pending, which have been set up in accordance with the laws in force since 1985 (I refer to Law No 47 of 28 February 1985, and the two subsequent laws of 1994 and 2003). Therefore, we must bear in mind that we are talking about Italian citizens who have tabled a legitimate motion, according to laws adopted in this House and certainly not by this majority. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are talking about people who have been waiting, respectively, for thirty-three, twenty-four and, in the best cases, fifteen years. It's too much. This inefficiency causes not only purely economic damage to citizens. When, in the current emergency situation, waiting for a reconstruction blocked by bureaucracy, many cannot return to their homes, life is turned upside down. Therefore, it is our duty to find fast solutions for the damage caused by seismic events, the previous unpreparedness and the reconstruction stopped by as many as two in Central Italy and since 2017 in Ischia. I can only say that I am satisfied with the common sense that has always distinguished the action of this Government, which has as its sole and sole compass the interest of the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I add a few notes from a technician with experience in the public administration: I am aware that the building heritage of our country, and in particular that of Central Italy hit by the earthquake, is composed of a real estate fabric of enormous historical and artistic value, as well as fragile. I am well aware that the period of construction of many buildings is not due to recent building and urban regulations, since we have a stratified regulatory history: from Law No. 1150 of 1942 we then move to No. 765 of 1967, No. 10 of 1977 (the so-called Bucalossi), with the system of constraints introduced by Law No. 431 of 1985, the Single Text No. 380 of 2001 and Law No. 42 of 2004; a web of regulations that, for various reasons, not all municipalities have implemented and transposed with the same promptness. I know, therefore, for having experienced it from the inside, that the situation of the administrative conformity of the real estate is extremely complex, not so much because of the difficulties of implementation of the legislation, but even more for decades of lack of control of the territory, for measures not adopted by a far-reaching bureaucracy, as well as for those private individuals who have also tried to take advantage of this ambiguous situation. But it's time to leave. With article 25 we unlock the reconstruction of the areas affected in 2017 by the earthquake of Ischia: we accelerate the procedures so that within six months, after thirty years of waiting, those who had previously made a request for pardon receive a yes or a no. The owners of the thousand houses damaged by the earthquake have been waiting for thirty years to know what fate their home will have and now if they are entitled to the funds for reconstruction. If the request is rejected, the owners will not receive a single euro for reconstruction. If the request is accepted, they will receive the contributions, but not for the new volumes built abusively. On the other hand, no contribution goes to those convicted of mafia money laundering. In any case, there will be no new condone: a risk feared only by incorrect communication, centered on a false political ideological confrontation and unfortunately far from the search for concrete solutions for the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] After two years of total blocking of the reconstruction, we are able to give good news to the people who in Central Italy deal every day with the damage of the earthquake: in the so-called emergency decree the brake is unlocked represented by the presence of hundreds of small and limited building discrepancies, with a norm able to restart the yards and unlock the possibility to use the funds allocated for the reconstruction. Those who ask for the contribution demonstrating that their home has suffered damage may also ask for regularization for the small changes made decades ago, very often received in inheritance together with the houses of grandparents and parents. The volume increases that are permitted by law today will also be regularized, because they fall under the regional rules on the Home Floor, provided that on this additional volume the contribution for the reconstruction will not be recognized. I frankly do not understand the logic of a controversy - in my opinion purely instrumental - so a rule that brings volumetric advantages today is good and fair - I am still referring to the Home Floor - while, if the same is applied to bring back a territory in difficulty, it is to be opposed. That, Mr President, is not acceptable. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Many municipalities of the crater are historical villages that we deeply love and know: in the houses of those centers have stratified, over the centuries, small discrepancies that have made it impossible to recognize the owners the contribution to the reconstruction, according to norms evidently written without knowing the realities to which they were to be applied. We are talking about walled windows, wide doors of a few centimeters: truly inequitable. At last we have eliminated this obstacle, while maintaining the guarantee of the highest standards of safety and protection of the environment and the landscape: every intervention of renovation and reconstruction will be done verifying the static and anti-seismic safety of the buildings and - let us remember - for the totally abusive structures there will be no sanatoria. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In this way we do not give public money to the clever and instead protect the citizens who are victims of a jammed gear. We are proud to be able to say that, thanks to our work, reconstruction finally starts: one of the necessary steps to transform Italy from an emergency country to a country organized on quality models that protect all citizens. [[Applause from the M5S0 Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u40	With great pleasure I greet the Istituto comprensivo Statale Camillo Benso Cavour in Catania. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u41	She's registered to speak Senator Pucciarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 7 October 1970 Genoa was flooded with rare power, with deaths, wounded and displaced. In the area of Sant'Agata the medieval bridge on Bisagno collapsed. So much so that even today we can see the ruins in part as a warning to the prevention against hydrogeological failure. An unheard warning. In fact, in 2011 and 2014 Genoa again cried its victims. In these circumstances and in others, which have characterized the history of the Ligurian capital, the Genoese have risen with stubbornness and so good heart, despite the distant and cold distance that separated the institutions from the needs of the territory and from the teachings of the events that took place. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But on August 14, 2018 something very different happened from the tragedies that Genoa sadly learned to know. Here nature has nothing to do with the collapse of the viaduct Morandi. Every responsibility lies with man and from this point of view the collapse of the bridge assumes a left aura. Someone has not watched; someone has failed his duties; someone will have to pay. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] On several occasions we praised the incredible reaction of the rescue machine, the Civil Protection, the fire department, the health system and the simple citizens, who during and in the aftermath of the disasters are punctually transformed into anonymous heroes to whom we cannot fail to address our recognition. Every further word in this regard is superfluous, because, as Minister Salvini said, speaking of the fire department, the pats on the shoulders are no longer enough. The moment of the concrete facts has finally arrived and the decree Genoa today in question is a measure whose concreteness traces an enormous line of demarcation and discontinuity with the analogous measures that the past governments have launched in the aftermath of natural disasters or artificial disasters. The discontinuity is the salient trait of the decree Genoa. Discontinuity that, sudden and unexpected perhaps in the eyes of international and national observers, has arisen since the early hours of the disaster. In fact, a new way of making administrative policy, managing the emergency and dealing with the psychological repercussions on the population was immediately seen at work. The president of the Liguria Region Giovanni Toti, appointed extraordinary commissioner to the emergency, together with the mayor Bucci, not by chance later appointed extraordinary commissioner for the reconstruction, were present on the territory from the first moment, alongside the work of the national government, that in a constant and punctual way has never abandoned Genoa, both through the daily work of the vice minister of Genoa Edoardo Rixi, who has never left for a second his land and his people and that for this I thank. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , both through the presence of the President of the Count Council, Vice Prime Minister Salvini and Di Maio and Minister Toninelli. Discontinuity was in the will to point out the culprits immediately, without falling into the vicious circle typical of the old policy of making statements of principle that lead to nothing. Discontinuity has been in the management of displaced people who, unlike our fellow countrymen affected by the earthquake of Central Italy, will not suffer the humiliation and discomfort of spending a winter in the cold in the tent cities. And in fact, no case like that of Grandma Peppina occurred in Genoa. Discontinuity there was in the immediate work of intervention on the integrated logistic, productive, industrial and commercial systems damaged by the collapse of the viaduct. Finally, there was discontinuity in the emotional and sympathetic relationship between the institutions and the people, something that Italy was no longer used to for a long time. So in the name of discontinuity is now the time to leave and the decree Genoa offers the tools and resources necessary to do so. A billion euros will arrive on the territory. Nothing's left to chance. I would like to briefly address a few points on which I think it is good to stress because they represent the founding spirit of the decree under discussion. The attention to displaced persons has been confirmed in all its scope. The value of their property will be calculated through the instrument of the Regional Programme of strategic intervention, with a further increase of the resulting value, because it is right that the emotional aspect of the loss is also taken into account. The displaced, in fact, leave their personal history, their memories and their fears within those walls. The administrative scope of the Commissioner's powers has been outlined to ensure the rationality and efficiency of decisions. Thanks to the establishment of a free zone that goes in the desired direction from several parts in the days immediately after the collapse of the viaduct, the enterprises that have the head office or an operating center inside it or that have suffered, because of the event, a reduction of the turnover may require some facilitations in alternative to the other benefits previewed. Finally, the decree for Genoa sends a clear message to the Country: the tragedy of Morandi cannot fail to have sensitive repercussions on the attention that the institutions have towards the maintenance of the infrastructural networks. A collapse like that of Morandi must never happen again. An experimental dynamic monitoring system will be implemented, to which the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport will oversee, for road and motorway infrastructures that present critical conditions related to the passage of heavy goods vehicles. In conclusion, Mr President, a parliamentary process ends today, but out there in the city of Genoa, which is still hurt, there is so much, so much to do. At the State funerals government representatives were applauded, while someone else was whistled. Those applauses were a spontaneous and warm demonstration of trust and represent a huge responsibility, because this majority is called not to disappoint those who have shown that they believe in you. The Genoa decree goes in this direction, it is a step forward towards a reconstruction that will not erase the pain, but can make us stronger than before. Today there is no alibi or excuse for not voting on this decree: that is what we owe to Genoa and that we owe to all of Italy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u43	She is registered to speak Senator Di Girolamo.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, the decree-law we are converting contains concrete measures for the city of Genoa and for the Genoese, but it also contains important responses in terms of monitoring and security on all public infrastructure in our country, monitoring and security that have been lacking until the arrival of this Government. The time of gifts and favors ends, those made to concessions and businessmen friends of some friends, and the right balance is restored that belongs to the public interest. In fact, among the planned interventions there is one that previews the acquisition of the opinion from the Authority of regulation of the transports in the cases of update and revision of the highway concessions in existence, in order to be able to rebalance those contractual conditions that today turn out to be excessively favorable to the interests of the private one and to the detriment of the public interest. Today the state has returned to the state and with this measure it gives full proof of this. I feel obliged to thank Minister Toninelli, also on behalf of all the citizens of Abruzzo for the particular interest he has reserved to the serious safety conditions of the viaducts of the A24 and A25 motorways. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Motorways defined by the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 21 October 2003 of strategic interest, for the purposes of civil protection in case of seismic events, but which, nevertheless, are affected by a serious state of disease in the pylons supporting the same structures. The Minister went in person to see the fragility of those viaducts, where pieces of concrete fall and the rods of the armor, rusted and completely discovered by cement mortar, broke between his hands as if they were cookies. Despite the instrumental campaign carried out by some local politicians (those good and experienced, those who let that highway rot) the Minister found a way to equip the urgency with a budget of 196 million euros to start that maintenance that had never - and I say "never - been done. And again: it is previewed the assumption near the Ministry of the infrastructures and the transports of 110 technicians, dedicated to the inspections and to the control of all the infrastructures, so that never more can happen a tragedy like that last 14 August, happened to Genoa. Within the emergency decree is provided the establishment of the national computer archive of public works, through which it will be possible to uniquely identify each structure present on the national territory, thanks also to the possibility of consultation of the same archive, in open data format. In short, we will have new means of prevention, which all citizens will be able to enjoy in terms of safety. In addition, an important phase of experimental monitoring for the works considered priority will begin, through a dynamic system for the safety of road and motorway infrastructure under critical conditions. It is a constant instrumental control of the infrastructures themselves, which will benefit from the help of the most advanced and effective technologies, even space. This instrument will also help to facilitate the process of programming, financing and priorities of the actions to be carried out on the works. For these and for all the other interventions provided for in Decree-Law No. 109 today in conversion we will never end by thanking this Government. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u46	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not go back to the things already shared that motivate the precise and pervicacious opposition to this double pardon, which offends not only the citizens in order, but in particular, in this case, the city of Genoa. I do not have much time, so I shall touch on two problems and two issues on which, in my opinion, there has not been enough in-depth discussion. The decree-law for Genoa was the opportunity to build a scenario that put or confirmed the city of Genoa in the center of a quadrant that the fall of the bridge had irreparably put in difficulty. The decree-law arrives with very guilty delay (ninety days after the dramatic events that hit the city); but above all, in these ninety days, a sort of desert has been built around the city of Genoa, which risks putting in crisis in a decisive and time-consumingly effective way the future of a quadrant indispensable for the development of Italy, not only for the development of a Region. On the one hand, the realization of the third pass has been questioned, there is the confirmation of the "no" to the Grunda and above all, in addition to that geostrategic quadrant from the social point of view and from the economic point of view, there is the confirmation of the "no" to the Turin-Lion. The sum of all these factors does not affect only the port of Genoa, but puts the port of Genoa, with the quadrant of reference (that is above all its hinterland), in the condition of creating an irreversible failure for the increase of the whole Italian North and therefore of a large part of this extraordinary Country. President Coltorti is right when he appeals to the shortcomings of previous governments. President Coltorti instead forgot to specify what the previous governments are. I would like to remind you very gladly: between 2008 and 2013 (it did not govern the center-left) the investments have decreased by 33 percent (they are data of the ANCE, they are not biased data). The League - this is an objective fact, just reread the parliamentary papers - approves in 2008 the protocol with Autostrade, which confirms that type of concessions. The last figure, on the other hand, I draw from CRESME: between 2013 and 2018 the outgoing governments left 149 billion (not 150) of investments related to public works, both for maintenance and for large infrastructures on the table. These are numbers, President Coltorti, that I beg you to deny with the cards in hand; my cards are here and I will gladly give them to you when you request them. The last question concerns a central point of the Genoa decree. Everything is exempted: derogation in waste management, derogation in terms of occupational safety, derogation in terms of procurement. You have also rightly criticized - and I share this in part - the new procurement code, but that text contains Article 63, which provided for the most precise and transparent solution. Instead of questioning an extraordinary apparatus of state laws, Article 63 could have laid down once and for all the criterion to govern emergencies. I would like to ask, and I have concluded, what do you do with the rules of the European Union? How will you manage other emergencies, the Veneto emergency or the emergency that has opened with recent floods in other regions? Do we deviate differently from the rules we had about the management and the government of the Genoa issue? Or does that become the criterion to be applied to the management of other emergencies? It's unknown. The risk, in the face of the unknown, is that you delete some rules and that others risk not having full right to citizenship, thus adding guilty delays to even more guilty delays. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u48	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u49	Mr President, in the short time available to me, I would like to concentrate on two articles, namely the 25 and 41, which I did not expect, of course, to find in a decree-law that was to be dedicated to the emergency in Genoa. Unfortunately, as often happens to me, my speech will also touch in part on things spoken by other colleagues because, honestly, there was no need to tell them: we could defend Articles 25 and 41 without resorting to these statements. In the preamble, with regard to Article 25, we may not even call it pardon, but the question to which to answer is the following: to current legislation, how many homes on the island of Ischia are currently sanable? The answer is zero. With this article, how many homes will be sanitized? More than zero. The basic arithmetic tells us that any number greater than zero is a positive number and therefore there will be houses healed, this is very simple. How many I don't know. [[Applause from Senator Margiotta.]] Secondly, it has rightly been said that pardon is not a right, because it is not, but the citizen has the right to have an answer to the administrative process that concerns him. But what citizen? Because, limiting themselves only to the houses that concern the three municipalities of the Ischia area that have suffered damage, about 844,000 requests for leave remain excluded throughout the national territory. These people, too, have ongoing practices to which no response is given, so let's create a dysmetria between those who will have an answer and those who won't. Of course, we can extend to all citizens who are waiting for an answer in thirty, sixty, one hundred and eighty days or one hundred and eighty days and sixty days and do not have it. These people, obviously, do not have a Saint to vote for and therefore will not have an answer. Moreover, it has been said that there will be no contribution to reconstruction for those who have made volume increases. That's all I'd like to say. Would we also like to give him a prize? The problem, however, is that there will still be a contribution and a reconstruction according to standard for buildings in whole or in part built in a black economy, because no company will invoice the works for a house that is built abusively, without the necessary requirements of static, because not all the technical procedures have been carried out. They are houses built to the saving, with materials of dubious quality, that will be condoned, if it is okay, moreover, even, with contribution. It has been said, then, that if there is no answer, the houses will remain there. But there is a solution, it is called the suppression of abusive houses and it would also be appropriate to do so. It has also been said that there will be silence-reject, but it does not appear in Article 25. On the other hand, there is amendment 25.25 (text 2) which explicitly calls for silence and has been rejected in the Commission. There was talk, as if it were a slight thing, of a 20 percent volumetric difference, which would be one in five floors. The elevation of one in five floors does not exactly make 20 percent of the property, but we are close. So, even in this case, you have to be careful to call it little abuse. With regard to Article 41 on the management of sewage sludge, it has been said that legislative decree No 99 of 1992 does not regulate the limit levels for the dispersion of certain substances, but that is not true. I have here an extract of the legislative decree and on the second page there is a table, so there was no need to make this statement either. I have also heard that we will all be happy now, because they will be scattered on sludge fields with certified levels of pollutants, with that bit of dioxin that maybe gives that extra flavor to broccoli, for example. In Legislative Decree No 99 of 1992 these substances were not regulated because the precautionary principle applies, so certain substances must be put to zero. We're talking about heavy hydrocarbons, between 10 and 40 carbon atoms. You have placed a limit of 1,000 milligrams per kilogram on the dry matter for the dispersion on the fields, on which 70 percent water and 30 percent mud, which results in about 3,500 milligrams on the dry matter. Think that 1,001 is the limit beyond which you cannot go to an ordinary landfill, but you have to go to a landfill for special hazardous waste. There is therefore permission to spread on the soil fields and sludge contaminated with heavy oils and minerals in quantities three and a half times higher than landfillable. If we really talk about emergency and emergency resolution, then there are good international practices, such as that adopted in Switzerland, which in 2006 said that it is risky to pour certain substances into the fields, so instead it is necessary to go to incineration, in order to avoid having heavy metals in the ground, which are bioaccumulable substances. It does not matter that for a number of months they cannot be spread: dioxin, for example, is 10 million years in the soil. Do we want to make a 10 million-year-old set-aside? It is therefore clear that some substances should not really be in the soil, because they are bioaccumulative, do not percolate and persist for millions of years. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u50	Senator De Bonis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u51	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this bill of conversion of the so-called Genoa decree, under consideration by Parliament, consists of some fundamental points: urgent interventions for the support and economic recovery of the territory of the Municipality of Genoa; the security of the national network of infrastructures and transport; interventions in the territories of the Municipalities of Casamicciola, Forio, Lacco Ameno and, finally, urgent measures for seismic events in Italy in 2009, 2012, 2016 and 2017. As already emphasized by the minister of the infrastructures Toninelli, with the conversion into law of the decree there will be measures in support of the enterprises that have had economic difficulties because of the collapse, norms that concern the harbour zone and retroportuale and aids and supports also on the front of the taxation to the citizens that have lost the house because of the disaster deriving from the collapse of the bridge. Resources are set up for local transport and for road hauliers affected by the traffic fracture. I cannot deny, therefore, that a good job has been done by our Government and by our majority, especially the House, where the high quality of the contribution made by each political force has enabled work at times undeniablely tiring, but extremely productive and of considerable improvement of the text. I am obviously referring to the significant interventions for the city of Genoa. However, I cannot fail to highlight the issue of Article 41, which I have been particularly committed, including within my Group, to explaining the effects and impacts of this rule, which I have also tabled amendments to and an agenda, which I hope will be accepted by this House, despite the fact that they have not been accepted by the Commission. First of all, the issue of sludge, because of its complexity and delicacy, is a little extraneous to this issue and I would like to highlight a concern about Article 41 regarding the protection of health, which is one of our fundamental principles and rights recognised by the Constitutional Charter. I have always fought to ensure that, in the face of the protection of health and the environment, profit can take a step backwards and some of us seem to be able to facilitate the profits of some companies by spreading these products and substances on the soil. The good of life, in fact, deserves protection and the raising of the limits of heavy hydrocarbons could pose a risk to the environment and the food chain. It is the European Union itself that, with its directives, calls for caution and regulation of the use of sewage sludge in agriculture, so as to avoid harmful effects on soil, vegetation, animals and humans. The earth is sacred and must not become an open-air landfill: we must preserve it especially for our future generations. It would appear, however, with the text received from the House, that it is faced with an increase in the limits which, compared to that of industrial sludge, is considerably higher. For these reasons, the European Union has always observed the precautionary principle, because for thirty years now the World Health Organisation has established that all compounds already covered by the environmental code are carcinogenic, accumulate in the soil, are not biodegradable and are also likely to lead to an infringement procedure for our country. I very much hope, therefore, also in the light of the precautionary principle, that possible corrections will be made here in Parliament, in the Senate, in order to avoid the distribution of these substances in our land. I would ask that the written text of my speech be submitted to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u52	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u53	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u54	Mr President, as you know, it was not intended for me to intervene in this debate, but I want to do so because some aspects have been highlighted, in particular by a representative of the League, who referred to an amendment by the Democratic Party, referring to the earthquake decree-law of last July, which we all voted on together. It has been an incorrect reference and I am speaking for this reason, because in this House there can be no unfairness, manipulation and mystification. We would have liked this to be the decree-law exclusively dedicated to Genoa, to that immense tragedy. Other parts have been inserted, in our opinion badly; for example, a part has been inserted that also concerns Central Italy. I am resident in the crater of that terrible earthquake in 2006 and I am well aware of the efforts we have made; I know well how many efforts we have all made together. For example, colleagues, all together, in July, we decided to approve, in that measure, which was the last act on the thrust of the Government Gentiloni Silveri, a sanatoria for the so-called small discrepancies. Today we do a very different thing and when we mention one of our amendments at the time - which was not voted on, by the way, because it is excluded from that agreement that we all did - it is done in a profoundly wrong and incorrect way, because the first part of the amendment is mentioned, but not the second part and the second part is the one that contains the constraints, for example the fact that only the regularly stacked volumes can access the contributions. The limits are those that establish that the sanatoria can be valid only for the small discrepancies and, therefore, relative to the percentages previewed from the Plan home, that in the case of the Marche Region are 20 percent. This limit you of League and 5 Stars remove it, allowing you to go over 20 percent and transforming that need of a sanatoria for small discrepancies into a real condon. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You remove the constraint that we have placed, namely that it was professional technicians who made sure that there was no link between the volumes made in an abusive way and the seismic damage, because abuse causes damage and causes death, as we have seen in the tragedy that took place in Palermo. And then, ladies and gentlemen, in that amendment of the Democratic Party there was a constraint on which we hold particular, I am referring to the constraint of authorization and of landscape compatibility. You cancel this bond in Regions such as the Marches, Umbria and Abruzzo, whose citizens, precisely because of their attachment to their territory (which is identity), to the rules (which are identities) and to an ethical behavior (which is identity) those bonds never exceeded them. Today we have a landscape that envy us all over Italy, Europe and the world. These bonds, colleagues of the League and the 5 Stars, if you are intellectually honest, put them back into the decree. Do it for the landscape, for the bond of 20 percent and to prevent this sanatoria from becoming a pardon. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Of the Genoa decree, in an instrumental way, you have done something different, making this provision an insult to those who wait, an insult to those who have lost everything and to the family members of the victims. You have inserted a pardon for Ischia which, not by chance, being the Vice President's constituency, has been called Condon Di Maio. You have included rules on toxic sludge that affect the possibility of farming and the quality of our lives. You poison us by decree, colleagues! [[Applause from the PD Group]] With this decree-law of yours, in which you badly wanted to include these norms on Central Italy, you have canceled the possibility that things happen in agreement with the Presidents of the Region and therefore with the local authorities and with the Municipalities.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u55	I invite you to conclude, Senator Verducci.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u56	Mr Verducci (PD). In conclusion, Mr President. You have once again rejected all the amendments in support of businesses, workers and those who need to be protected to develop a territory that only work and businesses will raise. We will oppose this decree-law with all our might. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u57	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vattuone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, this decree-law arrives at the Senate after a long gestation and even after a battle, which was waged in the House, to try to improve it and bring adequate answers and resources to guarantee a future first for Genoa, after the dramatic wound suffered by the collapse of the Morandi bridge on August 14, the date of which the three months are now used. The collapse of the Morandi bridge represents the most serious road accident in our country: serious for the number of victims, that were 43 and that here I want to remember with a feeling of condolence to the families, and for the number of displaced, that are 600, with a suffering inflicted on many families. It is also serious for the importance of the collapsed structure, for the extent of the collapse and for the responsibilities that evidently preside over the disaster, as well as for the social and economic impact on the system that revolves around the city of Genoa, the Liguria Region and the economic system of the country. I would like to be clear on at least one point of principle: in the face of a tragedy like this, a country reacts together. In the face of the emergency and the victims, decisions are taken in a shared spirit, because the importance and objectivity of the measures to be taken and the investigations to be carried out allow and demand this. We have, with our part, made ourselves available at all levels, on several occasions and on several occasions, but this spirit of sharing, in relation to this measure and to the debate that preceded it, has not been there. It was not for political calculation, but also for the inadequacy of this Government: for an obvious inability but also for political calculation. Instead of managing this crisis with the instruments of law and politics available to those who have institutional responsibility, you have once again chosen the path of demagogy, simplification and oversimplification, with a number of various announcements. We have had an example of your behavior in the weeks and months following the collapse: announcements of revocation of concessions never implemented, announcements of nationalizations, appointment of an inspection commission with immediate revocations and resignation of the members, drafts of the decree-law without figures, declared perfect in the beginning and then, fortunately, partially modified. Suffice it to say that you took advantage of the Genoa emergency, as has been said on several occasions and as Senator Verducci said well, in order to pass rules of a different kind. Of course, the Genoese have rolled up their sleeves, but Genoa alone can't make it. And it was encouraging, instead, that civil society, institutions, associations and even local political forces have found a capacity for collaboration and a common proactive force in asking Parliament and politics for reconstruction and a response to all the needs arising from the collapse. But, ladies and gentlemen, this measure is a set of incomplete, insufficient and untied solutions. Three months have passed since August 14 and the city of Genoa, considered also the strategicity of the Ligurian capital from the point of view of the national and international commercial transits, with this decree-law does not have adequate answers. First of all, we do not know who will make the bridge and when it will be realized. There are various announcements about the times that make us shudder, because of the superficiality with which this issue is handled, which is directly for the survival and for the future of Genoa and Liguria. [[Applause from Senator Garavini.]] The legal scaffolding of reconstruction is very weak, as Senator Margiotta said in his minority relationship, with a path that we consider very complicated. There is no clarity about reconstruction, with worrying uncertainty about its reconstruction times, and the same applies to compensation for displaced persons. The decree-law says, rightly, because there are responsibilities and we have stated it on several occasions, that these compensations must be provided by Autostrade society. That is right, but due to the legal weakness of the document, the provision of resources is likely to be delayed, if not compromised, by appeals. Commissioner Bucci, on several occasions, said in some statements that, if Autostrade does not pay, it will draw from the guarantee funds introduced in the decree. But the guarantee funds introduced in the decree were put precisely because, if Autostrade does not pay, they intervene on the reconstruction of the bridge. This gives the measure of uncertainty. Only the displaced need 72 million. Commissioner Bucci says that he draws them from the guarantee fund, which is needed, however, if Autostrade does not pay for the bridge. I do not know if I was clear, but this gives the measure of the uncertainty that revolves around this measure. If reconstruction is to be started, economic development must also be activated. Improvements have certainly been made to the Chamber, where seventy-seven modifications have been introduced, but there are still very obvious deficiencies from the point of view of economic support and from the point of view of the planning of the infrastructural logistic system: there is no talk of Grunda, there is no talk of third pass and, even on the compensations to the companies, the decree is, once again, dramatically insufficient. The Chamber of Commerce has estimated a damage to businesses of 422 million euros and the Executive has allocated only crumbs, because there is the whole part of the orange area, where there are companies and citizens who are suffering indirectly. And they are crumbs also those put for the port of Genoa. We have proposed the Special Economic Zone, which is also a development measure, but has not been taken into account. The Decree-Law also does not contain any satisfactory measures for the free zone, for the fund by way of derogation. I would like to say a few words about the great works, because the isolation that Genoa is experiencing, and risks living for a long time, should make everyone understand the strategic importance of the Grunda and the Third Pass. And instead, in the discussion of this measure, we had to endure the usual preconceptions anchored to the idea of happy degrowth. On the point there was a great mobilization in Turin and I think there will also be in Genoa.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u59	Come to the conclusion, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u60	VATTUONE (PD). We will not stop, colleagues, but make an effort: we have time, we can still improve this measure for Genoa: on the orange zone, on support for the port, on the coffer by way of derogation. Let us truly become this decree-law of Genoa in the contents, and not only in the title. Let us put in place the shared spirit of which I spoke at the beginning; we owe it to Genoa, to its inhabitants, to the realities that every day deal with this serious emergency. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u61	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romagnoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I assure you that in January 2017, during the earthquake, I was paralyzed on a hospital bed and so I experienced the earthquake, unfortunately, and no better than many other people; hearing so much hypocrisy in this House today leaves me genuinely perplexed. On August 14, our nation was struck by a story that - alas - will remain in the memory of all Italians: our beloved Genoa has suffered one of the most tragic events of recent republican history, a disaster that has distant causes because for years, precisely, the country suffers from a care, a bad management of the public thing, the widespread lawlessness, the connivance between the worst part of entrepreneurship and public apparatuses that do not carry out the function and the tasks for which they are responsible. Beyond the civil and criminal responsibilities that will be established, we cannot fail to say that what has happened is the mirror of the bad system that has characterized Italy in recent decades, the one that we are fighting with all our energies. Since August 14 we have shared the great work of our Government, which has faced the central nodes with massive interventions, resolvers and immediate. Today we are in the Chamber for the examination of a decree-law on emergencies, already approved in the House; a measure that contains all the interventions that have been recalled before, which obviously deserve our utmost support. The decree-law to our examination is not limited, however, to dealing only with the serious situation of the collapse of the bridge of Genoa, therefore that emergency. As part of the Commission's work, and together with my colleagues in the Commission, we want to express our greatest satisfaction in this House with the way in which the measure deals with work. Among the most important measures, in fact, there is also the re-introduction of the redundancy fund. Despite the numerous reports of the social partners, the jobs act had created an unacceptable situation for hundreds of thousands of workers, who were at risk of dismissal due to the expiry of the integration fund for termination, no longer renewable precisely because of the limitations imposed by the Renzi government's labour reform. With the effects of the decree, the workers will be able to return to take advantage of the integration fund for a maximum of twelve months for the years 2019-2020, thus managing to rearrange their lives and to work more quietly to find a new job. We are at a particularly difficult time for the world of work: the economic crisis is added to the problems related to the relocation of the company, because of the companies that transfer their productions abroad, closing historical plants. To have diminished the social shock absorbers at this very moment, from the previous Government, it was really a hallucinating and improbable act. As a majority, in these first months of the legislature, together with Minister Di Maio, we are engaged in numerous crisis tables, united in order to defend the rights of workers for thousands of our fellow citizens. Personally, I was proud to participate in the table that was held at MISE with Whirlpool, in which, for the first time, we saw a company that, invited by the Minister to return to the Ministry with a new business program, in a second meeting it was said favorable to bring back production from Poland to Italy, thus returning to our territory. Thus, with this rule, absolutely indispensable, we go to root the jobs act, law that, among the many negative aspects, had left without any protection the workers, like the 200 of the Bekaert or the 140 of the Comital. Many workers, therefore, will not lose their jobs and will be able to return to the productive fabric thanks to our reform on the redundancy fund. With pride, then, and aloud, we can confirm, as our Minister Di Maio said, that this is a government that does not abandon people. This is what drives our action within the institutions, this is the real change: after years of total disinterest, the State finally returns to make the state. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u63	Senator Papatheu is registered to speak. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u64	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, to the colleagues of the Democratic Party, who accuse this majority of having done little for Genoa and a crap for Ischia, I say that they are hypocrites and in bad faith. In the decree-law to Ischia are dedicated 20 articles, with structural measures to deal seriously with post-emergency and reconstruction. I address my colleague Valente - whom I do not see - who, on the occasion of the conversion of Decree-Law No. 55, had hurled against the new majority, because she had not foreseen measures for the Ischia communities: these measures are the answers to the nothingness of the Government Gentiloni Silveri. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] What is in Article 25 is neither a new pardon nor a tomb pardon. Article 25, which you have targeted, aims only to close open questions concerning previous pardons. Say that all 28,000 abusive buildings on the island of Ischia will benefit: it is a fake. Only questions relating to buildings destroyed or damaged by the earthquake of 21 August 2017 and only three municipalities on the island (Casamicciola Terme, Forio and Lacco Ameno). So we are talking about less than a thousand buildings and it is clear that there will be no pardon for those who have been convicted of organized crime or money laundering and that it will be necessary to authorize landscaping. No condone, therefore, where there are hydrogeological, environmental, landscape and archaeological constraints. So there will be no condones for buildings built in beehives or near streams or rivers. So there will be no condons for houses built on landslides or where there are constraints of absolute inefficiability. No contribution for volumes subject to remission. Of course, Article 25, as issued by the Government, presented some critical issues, but we of the League - and we claim it - have improved it. You oppositions are so poor in arguments that you try to throw mud everywhere (about sewage sludge). You also accuse us of having introduced a serious sanatoria for the 140 municipalities of the earthquake of Central Italy, where my colleague Ferrazzi even says that whole plans of houses will be healed. That's colossal bullshit. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] With article 39-b we have introduced - and we claim - the regularization of non-compliance of volumes contained within 20% of the total, in line with the National Housing Plan, a fundamental norm to unlock and accelerate the reconstruction still standing at the stake for your inability and responsibility. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] What have we done so badly? Simple, we have unified in all the crater territories the procedures already foreseen in two regions. I refer to the Marches, where the Democratic Party rules with Ceriscoli and the Regional Law of 2 August 2017, n. 25, and Umbria, where the Democratic Party rules - also there - with the Governor Marini and where, with the Regional Law of 21 January 2015, n. 1, you have foreseen the sanatories of non-compliance. So, you of the Democratic Party, with regional laws, have already planned to heal in non-compliance. That's why you're hypocrites. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] In addition, Mr Verducci, we do not remove the landscape constraint. What did we do, then? While, until now, the owner of a building had to go first to the municipality to ask permission in sanatoria, wait months and - then - address the special office for reconstruction to present the reconstruction project, we have brought together in a single procedure what is currently divided into two. So, we allow professionals and property owners to buy time and, therefore, speed up the reconstruction. For the earthquake victims of Central Italy the measure under consideration contains many other measures that - I stress - are added to the many that we have introduced with decree-law 29 May 2018, n. 55. We have recognised the key role of municipalities in the Commissioner's management room; universities become actuators on their damaged buildings; measures to intervene on the 3,000 churches destroyed or damaged are extended. For us the usability of these places of worship is fundamental for the affected communities. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] It also provides for the permanent relocation of stables located in temporary structures, which are essential for agricultural enterprises. It also provides for the anticipation of compensation for professionals working in the crater - almost 40,000 - so that they can finally have the money at the deposit of the project and not wait for months. There are many other measures, not to mention - I say this here - that in the budgetary manoeuvre we have provided for the extension of the state of emergency, of the commissioner's structure and of the final contracts of the 700 technicians. Finally, allow me to deepen on article 16 -bis of the provision, that, thanks to an amendment introduced from the League and approved to the Chamber of Deputies, previews the attribution of commissioner powers to the managing director of Italian Railway Network in order to put hand to the extraordinary maintenance of the railway and road bridge San Michele on the Adda of Paderno d'Adda, than on the night of 14 september last it has been closed with only six hours - I repeat, six hours - in advance. It will take two years to intervene from the moment the authorisations are obtained. We consider these fundamental powers to speed up work and obtain authorisations, but let us not forget the problems that are affecting commuters and businesses operating in the two municipalities involved. We trust that tax breaks can be provided for them in the budget law. I conclude by thanking Vice Minister Rixi, the Offices and colleagues of the Commissions involved in the examination of the measure, the majority rapporteurs, Senators Ripamonti and Patuanelli, and those of opposition. Above all, I wish the commissioners, the mayor Bucci for Genoa, the commissioner of Ischia and above all Piero Farabollini, the extraordinary commissioner for the post-earthquake reconstruction in Central Italy, a technician, not a politician, son of that devastated territory. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u66	Senator De Siano is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u67	Mr President, I have listened carefully to Senator Arrigoni's speech and I must say that I share many of his remarks. The measure to our examination treats several emergencies of the Country: the collapse of the bridge of Genoa, the earthquake of the island of Ischia and the earthquake that occurred in central Italy. I will focus on Article 25 and the earthquake in Ischia, leaving to the other friends of the Group the discussion of topics of different content within the decree-law. First of all, I would like to point out that we strongly, as the Forza Italia Group, with our President, Mr Bernini, have repeatedly asked the Government for a specific measure for the earthquake in Ischia, which for us represents a real emergency to which answers must be given. The Forza Italia Group has been clear on the point from the beginning; we have always supported it and we note that within the decree-law the Government has dedicated an important space to dealing with the problems concerning the island of Ischia. Another point I have to make in this House is the behaviour of the leading members of the Democratic Party who have had a specific attitude on the matter, in my view, grave and scandalous, describing, sometimes even with abusive statements, a reality that is completely outside the truth. They even said that the extensors of the provision should be ashamed. Let me say that, although I am not a majority, I am a careful observer of certain issues. So I have to say that compared to this issue, those who should be ashamed are the members of the Democratic Party at the highest level, up to the local representatives, who have not felt a sense of dignity and have put themselves in a different position than their national leaders, letting one thing be said on the ground and at national summits another. Let us then turn to the discussion of Article 25 of the decree-law dealing with the earthquake of Ischia. There was a representation of Ischia as of the island of the clever, of those who do not respect the rules, as of the island that is not within the national territory. The island of Ischia has suffered a massacre in this story, but it is a part of the territory of our country equal to all the others, from Sicily to the Alps: there is perhaps some problem of a different nature but it does not differ from the others. There are on the island of Ischia, as in many territories of the Campania Region, citizens who, not because of them but because of the lack of answers of politics in the last thirty years, live a moment of great difficulty. There has been talk of thousands and thousands of abusive constructions that with the decree-law would be healed in Ischia. It's, as Senator Arrigoni said, lies. What, then, does the provision say in its content? It is defined the instances of forgiveness related to the properties destroyed or damaged by the earthquake of 21 August 2017. This is the original text of Article 25. The damaged municipalities of the island of Ischia are the Municipality of Casamicciola Terme, the Municipality of Lacco Ameno and the Municipality of Forio. These three municipalities, by virtue of the conditions laid down in Law No. 47 of 1985, Law No. 724 of 1994 and Law No. 326 of 2003, have a total of unevaked practices of 530. These are precise and true numbers of the Municipalities of Lacco Ameno and Casamicciola, because the municipality of Forio has few damaged houses. These are the true numbers to which this decree refers. Of these about 600 homes, only about 10 percent of them are involved in the red zone. So, how many houses are we talking about? This is the real theme. The decree-law to our examination certainly presents some important answers and has some positive contents. It is possible to speed up the examination of pardoning practices and reference is made to Law No. 47 of 1985, the Law of the First Pardon, which sets out in Articles 32 and 33 the limits which cannot be exceeded with regard to absolutely unavoidable constraints. It cannot be built on the side of the road and, therefore, can not be granted concession in sanatoria: if there is an abusive construction on the side of the road, it must be knocked down. It is not possible to build and heal close to a valuable good from an archaeological point of view: it is not possible; the norm establishes it. If there is a hydrogeological constraint, there is no possibility of sanatoria: the property must be demolished. Why speculate in a demagogic way with respect to a serious theme that represents the suffering of so many families? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The decree was extremely strict, in my view. [[Recalls of the President]] The decree provides, for example, for a building built twenty years ago, and for which a response from the State is expected, may be subject to an examination of the concession in sanatoria. As soon as a concession is issued in sanatorium, I believe that construction is legitimate in all respects and has all the requisites. Why, then, can't it be financed? [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u68	I had already given you an extra minute, but I allow you to finish the surgery, but you must pay attention to the bell.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u69	DE SIANO (FI-BP). President, I wanted to articulate my speech but I am going to the conclusion because you asked me and I am respectful of the Presidency. The Forza Italia Group takes note of a very important fact: the word 'condon' has finally been cleared in this Parliament. Many countries need some answers. We note with satisfaction that in this Parliament we begin to talk at last, constructively, about a topic that involves many communities and we note that on the positions of Forza Italia, finally, after fifteen years, the League has arrived and, after five years, the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u70	He's enlisted to speak Senator Crucioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u71	Mr President, I find it symbolic that today, 14 November, the decree-law which will attempt to remedy the collapse of 14 August arrives in this House for its conversion. I should also like to begin my speech with a reminder of the 43 victims who lost their lives on 14 August. [[Applause.]] I am sorry that the friends of the PD are not present in this House at the moment, and I regret that, as happened in the Commission, as soon as their speeches were over, they have left their positions. But still, I'll move on. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from Senators Bellanova, Ferrari and Verducci.]] Mr Ferrazzi (PD). That's not true! MARGIOTTA (PD). That's not true! CRUCIOLI (M5S). Connect Bellanova, I understand that when you're spoken to, your voice will rise. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crucioli, it is not up to you to report presences or absences from the Chamber. Some colleagues are present. Do your speech. CRUCIOLI (M5S). The collapse of the Morandi, with its 43 deaths, the wounded, the displaced, the immense damage and inconvenience that we are suffering daily, is not an isolated case: it is only the last and the most serious episode of an impressive series of collapses of our infrastructures. It can be said that there has not been one of the last five years in which at least one bridge, a overpass has not collapsed anywhere in our Peninsula. In 2013 in Carasco, always near Genoa, there was the collapse of a bridge that killed two people. In the same year a bridge in Sardinia and a viaduct in Sicily collapsed. In 2014, the viaduct Lauricella collapsed on the state road Ravanusa-Licata. In 2015 two viaducts and a bridge in Sicily collapsed. In 2016 it was the turn of a overpass near Lecco, in 2017 of a bridge in Trapani and one near Ancona. Every collapse, dead, wounded, and massive damage. The precarious situation of our infrastructures must also deal with the fragility of our territory, which every year landslides or floods under the blows of extreme weather events that are repeated with increasing frequency. A sad example of this is the wave of bad weather that has followed since the beginning of October, still causing collapses, still disasters, still flooding from North to South. Colleagues, in the face of such rubble, what further evidence do we need to understand that, if we do not intervene immediately, our infrastructure will collapse even more frequently, our roads will collapse and our neighborhoods will continue to flood? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] What other signs must we wait to understand that the urgency is not the new great works, but the maintenance and safety of the works that we already have? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Every penny that we take away from the prevention and safety of our infrastructure and our territory will force us to weep still dead and to count more damage. The decree-law that we are called to convert today shows us two things. The first is that remedying the damage caused by neglect of works and territory is much more expensive than preventing such damage. The second is that the government and this majority have very clear that prevention is the best and most profitable investment that we can put in place. From the first point of view, that is for the emergency Genoa, I will limit myself to describing in brief the immense effort of energies and resources that this Government, starting from 14 August, has had to make. On 15 August, the President of the Council, who went immediately to Genoa together with Vice Prime Minister Di Maio and Minister Toninelli (I was present) announced the first allocation of five million euros to meet the most urgent needs, became more than 33 with the Council of Ministers of 18 August and increased by the decree that we are going to convert further nine million for 2018 and 11 million for 2019. On 20 August Genoa could already count, in addition to the first economic appropriations, also on the legal instrument with which the Commissioner delegated to the emergency was able to operate in order to try to guarantee the resumption of the normal living conditions of the Genoese. On 28 September, the decree we are debating today, which provided for the appointment of the Special Commissioner for Reconstruction, was published in the Official Journal. Over the last month in Parliament, together with my colleagues, we have worked incessantly, without press conferences or proclamations, but silently and head-to-head - as we Genoese like - listening carefully to all those involved, who gave advice and also made criticism useful to improve this decree. Thanks to these efforts, the Commissioner for Reconstruction will be able to act quickly by way of derogation from any provision of law (except criminal law and the anti-mafia code), supported by a structure for which expenditure of 1.5 million has been authorised for each of the years 2018, 2019 and 2020. I heard PD colleagues complain that Autostrade will not be able to rebuild. For us the concessionaire of the motorway section, as responsible for the safe maintenance of the collapsed infrastructure - and in all probability also responsible for the collapse - will not be the subject in charge of the reconstruction [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , despite having to cope with the costs of reconstruction. In the event of non-payment or delayed payment, the Commissioner will identify a person who will advance the amounts against the sale of the credit, guaranteed with an appropriation of 30 million annually from the year 2018 to the year 2029. More than 72 million euros will be allocated to the families of the displaced; more than 15 million euros are allocated in order to assume staff in support of the emergency in the local authorities, in the Authority of harbour system, in the judicial offices, in the Agency of the customs and in the marine Direction; 55 million will be employed in support of the enterprises, which will be able to benefit of the administrative simplification previewed from the simplified logistic zone, as well as of the reductions introduced from the institution of the urban free zone. There is also provision for €30 million to support employees and self-employed; more than €43 million is earmarked for local public transport, plus €20 million for the renewal of the fleet, with priority for those powered by electricity, hybrid and hydrogen; €20 million is earmarked for compensation to road hauliers. It is previewed moreover the planning and the realization of infrastructures of high automation in order to guarantee the optimization of the vehicular flows in income and exit from the port, with authorization to the expenditure of 30 million; 45 million they are allocated so that the port of Genoa does not lose its traffics and in order to stimulate the transport of the goods on track (the so-called ferrobonus). But do you see how much energy and resources the government and this majority have spent? In all in the next three years Genoa will be able to count on more than 700 million to try not to slip into the decline that the collapse of the Morandi could cause. The decree-law in question, however, does not only do everything possible for Genoa, but shows that this Government intends to reverse the trend in prevention and safety. The decree-law in fact finally states that, within twelve months, all the motorway concessionaries must verify and secure the infrastructures entrusted to them, without being able to increase the rates. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The establishment of the National Agency for the Safety of Railways and Road and Motorway Infrastructures, which will have the task of controlling and verifying what dealers will do, thus ensuring the safety of our infrastructures, will be of great importance. To do this, it will be able to employ more than 209 employees, with a budget of 36 million. With the decree-law in conversion, moreover, is instituted the national computer archive of the public works in which all the technical data, administrative, management and efficiency of bridges, viaducts, overpass (both road and rail), ports, airports, dams, tunnels, infrastructures and public buildings will converge. With a view to prevention, the implementation of a dynamic monitoring system with a budget of 15 million is planned. Finally, a monitoring and conservation plan for cultural heritage is planned, with a budget of another 20 million. In order to achieve these objectives, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is authorised to employ 200, mainly technical, personnel units without a time limit in 2019, with an allocation of more than 7 million per year from 2019. The economic effort put in place is enormous and the change of pace is evident: from an emergency culture you finally try to move to a culture of prevention. For all these reasons, my opinion can only be positive. For these reasons I will vote in favour of the conversion of the decree-law, with the conviction of contributing, in addition to remedying the damage caused to my city, also to the effort to rebuild a state from the material and moral ruins that you have left us. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u72	The general debate is closed. As the rapporteurs do not wish to speak in response, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u73	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the President of the Commission and the Commissioners for their work. We know that this bill of conversion must be approved in rapid times certainly for the reconstruction operation both in Central Italy and for the post -earthquake of Ischia, but also and especially for the first part - of which I have dealt directly - that concerns the collapse of the Morandi bridge in Genoa. Today exactly three months have passed since the date of that tragic event. Some of the things that have been said in this House must be clarified: in these three months the government has not been stopped: one and a half days after the collapse the government had already made available to the commissioner delegate five million euros. A further €28.5 million was made available on 18 August. With these first sums have been reopened three railway lines (two of which had partially collapsed as a result of the event), has been reopened a road under the viaduct, is opened ex novo a harbour roadway, is anticipated a yard of connection between the highway exit of Genoa Airport and Genoa West, that it had to finish to june or July of next year and instead will be finished to November of this year for the first two lanes and the rest will be realized within February of 2019. This is to say that in fact, in addition to giving the opportunity to the displaced to return, safely, to take their goods inside the houses, also for this operation, not only technically difficult but also clearly costly, the Government has proceeded to cover the costs in full. I say this because to honor of the truth there has been great collaboration with the local administrations, with the commissioner delegated for the emergency - the president Toti - and with who is indicated for the demolition and reconstruction of the viaduct, the commissioner Marco Bucci today mayor of Genoa. It is clear that we know how the legislative procedures are complex and how the action carried out at the time of the examination of the bill of conversion to the Chamber, after the audition on Genoa happened to the presence of the commissioners your colleagues a few weeks after the tragedy, has contributed to increase the instruments previewed in the decree, that they must integrate, then, with what established in the maneuver that it previews ulterior resources allocated for the event and that it will carry to a total amount of beyond a billion euros for the genoese area and Liguria and above all for the logistic ability of the first Italian port of call. So it is not a decree that does not establish measures: it is a decree that, for those like me of that territory and knows every road and every catastrophic event, gives much more resources and in times much faster than what happened on the occasion of the last two floods that have upset the city of Genoa. That said, could it be better? Yes, you can always do better and you can always improve. I believe, however, that the well-otherism does not help to raise the situation of a city that still lives the deep discomfort of being cut into two and of an Italian logistic and industrial chain of the North-West that has great problems when the first port of call of the Country goes in great suffering. So I believe that if on today's day - or tomorrow morning - the Senate of the Republic will contribute with its action to convert this decree into law will give concrete help to the city, to the companies, to the workers who are waiting for answers with the integration fund as a derogation and to all those realities that in these months, albeit with suffering, have not stopped and have continued to operate in Genoa carrying forward important pieces of reconstruction, which will not start tomorrow because it started yesterday. Tomorrow we will contribute, if we convert this decree into law, to give the tools to the extraordinary commissioner in order to immediately proceed to the assignment of the plans and the assignment of the yard. This is the purpose of the decree that is not the only solution in the face of a problem that has upset the Italian logistic system but is one of the instruments that we make available in order to succeed to quickly raise the economy of an important part of this Country. These are the issues that we are going to address today and I hope that this decree-law will come out with the greatest consensus of political forces. It is not an ideological decree, closed and prepacked at government level: it is a measure that has grown and has been improved with consultation of the categories and territories, with the involvement of the administrations and of this I believe that it must be acknowledged, not only to the Government, but also to the parliamentary committees, which have done considerable work. I believe that today we need to clarify this point, just as I believe that with the vote and with what we are about to decide in the next few hours we can make an important and effective contribution to the times and ways of reconstruction, which are not uncertain, as someone says, but are waiting for an answer from this House, so that we can finally have the necessary tools to start the work of demolition and construction of the viaduct. Without this green light, in fact, it is impossible for any Commissioner to make any kind of intervention, not being in the conditions and full powers to move today. For this reason I am convinced that the sense of responsibility that distinguishes the Upper Chamber must also be linked to an action of concreteness and speed in playing a role that at this moment is fundamental to release a territory such as Genoa, Liguria and the entire North-West of the country. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u74	I thank Deputy Minister Rixi. Normally the representative of the Government who intervenes in response to the general discussion would be one, but in this case there is the request, that we willingly accept, of the Undersecretary Crimes. Therefore, the government representative, Senator Crimes, may speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Having followed the second part of the discussion of the decree-law, as the two rapporteurs also did, I would like to thank all my colleagues first of all for their opposition and for their majority. I also thank the rapporteurs, but in particular all the forces and all the operators involved in the rescue and security after the tragedy of the Morandi Bridge, but not only: they are the people to whom our main thanks must go. I would like to start by saying that in this provision there are not only the two articles that have been debated in recent months (Articles 25 and 41), on which I will not subtract myself in the answer; this decree-law consists of 46 articles and perhaps it is right to do a truth operation to tell those who follow our work what is contained within it. In addition to all the measures in support of Genoa listed now by my colleague Rixi, it is always planned on Genoa - but not only for Genoa - the extraordinary assumption of 50 units at the Ministry of Justice: we talk about the district of Genoa, but it is still 50 new units at the Ministry of Justice. The same applies to the Customs and Monopolies Agency. With the assignment of the task of Extraordinary Commissioner to Railways has been unlocked the situation of the railway bridge to San Michele on the Adda of Paderno d'Adda, an important connection. The appointment of an extraordinary Commissioner for the Ischia earthquake, who will be able to monitor and coordinate reconstruction operations in order to reduce seismic, hydrogeological risks and deal with landscape protection, is planned. After these interventions 1,000 buildings will be safer: this is the fact. Then there is the verification and recovery of resources for the extraordinary plan of safety of school buildings to remodel the destination of schools by 2018, therefore the safety of schools. There is simplification of procedures for the earthquake of Central Italy. Let us be clear: today there are some Regions of Central Italy in which it is allowed, by its laws, to request an extension of the volume; it is allowed by regional laws. What does an earthquake have to do, then? It must make a request for contribution and rebuild its collapsed house; later, the regional law allows to make a request for increase of volume, then after it must intervene to make the increase of volume. We have established that these two questions are being asked at the same time. This is what has been done: what is permitted by regional law is done at the same time as the question of the contribution to reconstruction. Then a contribution of 2 million euros for the reopening of the viaduct Sente, another blocked structure. There is the release of resources for the safety measures of the A24-A25 motorway, immediately anticipating 250 million euros. EUR 9 million is allocated for each of the following three years for the design of innovative schools and childcare centres. Article 44 introduced wage integration treatment for companies in crisis, which made it possible to safeguard the income of workers in companies in crisis, who are quitting their business or who have a real prospect of giving it to others shortly. Finally, I would like to refer to the articles so much debated these days, such as Article 25 on Ischia's pardon. Article 25, for those who read it with intellectual honesty, deals simply with the procedures of request for forgiveness already started, inevaso from thirty-three, for twenty-four and fifteen years, only for the houses damaged by the earthquake; only and exclusively for those houses damaged by the earthquake and not for Ischia: it is right that it is clear that there is no new forgiveness. Before intervening with any contribution to a possible reconstruction, it must be clarified whether those dwellings for which legitimate applications have been submitted were entitled or not to a positive hesitation of the request which had been made fifteen, twenty-four or thirty-three years earlier. This is what this decree-law does, giving six months to initiate these procedures. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] In conclusion, on Article 41, it took thirty years for a government to finally (I finally put this word: finally), although for a transitional phase, to put a limit on the spreading of sludge. A judge had to intervene, just because there was no limit. So what are we talking about? There was the absence of limits; a judge intervenes by adopting a criterion that is not correct, but that was simply the only instrument available at that time to be able to give a measurement, because he had not made technical assessments; now this government puts a limit that was not there before. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] The limit was set a few months ago by a judge. MARGIOTTA (PD). It's not like that! CRIMI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. On this there is the Government's commitment to organically review all the legislation, not only on sludge, but also on defecation chalks, which are a derivative of sludge. Sewage sludge exists, because we all benefit from purification, so it needs to be managed. This is something that we all have to take note of; it is a solution to the emergency situation that was created following that judgment, because the judgment has intervened heavily, creating an immediate emergency situation. [[Comments from Senator Bellanova.]] This was the only possible solution in the current emergency phase, waiting to intervene with an organic review of all the legislation. The invitation that I address to all those who have complained about Article 41 in these days is to engage in the revision that the Ministry of the Environment is starting: give your contribution in the direction of ensuring the best well-being for this country. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u78	GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Mr President, of course there is nothing personal in my speech, but today I believe that we have all become aware of why this is the Government of change. There is precisely the physical representation of the Government of Change, because we had become accustomed in the House, both in the House and in the Senate, to the fact that after the discussion a representative of the majority and one of the Government replied. Instead, with the Government of Change, we have two representatives who intervene as Government. Thank you for this enlightenment that I have understood from today. [[Applause from Senators Bellanova and Margiotta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u79	I suspend the sitting until 4 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.56 p.m. and resumed at 16.06 p.m.) I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st Commission and the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u80	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u81	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u82	I invite the speakers and the representative of the Government to comment also on the agenda referred to in Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u83	Mr President, the agenda seems to have been withdrawn. I have a favourable opinion on the agendas for G1.101, G1.102, G1.103 and G1.104.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u84	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u85	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Gallone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words 'by'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.5 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.6 tabled by Senator Schifani, identical to Amendment 1.7 tabled by Senator Papatheu. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.8 tabled by Senator Papatheu. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.9, tabled by Senators Biasotti and Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.10, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators, until the words "to be taken down" are deleted. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.11. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.12, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.13, tabled by Senator Papatheu. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.14, tabled by Senator Schifani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.15, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.15, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,16, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. BIASOTTI (FI-BP). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.16, tabled by Senators Biasotti and Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,17, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. MARGIOTTA (PD). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.17, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,18, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,18, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,19, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.19, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.20, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.20, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.21, tabled by Senators Biasotti and Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.22, tabled by Senator Papatheu. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.23, tabled by Senator Papatheu, identical to amendment 1.24, tabled by Senator Schifani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.25, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.25, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.26, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. BIASOTTI (FI-BP). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.26, tabled by Senator Biasotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.27, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,28, tabled by Senators Schifani and Gallone, identical to amendment 1,29, tabled by Senator Papatheu. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). In view of the absence of the proposer, the agenda has fallen. Since the Government has accepted the agendas G1.101, G1.102, G1.103 and G1.104 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.1, tabled by Senator Ruspandini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 1-a of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 1-a.1. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u86	Mr President, I am against all the amendments. I am in favour of the G1-a.100 agenda, of which I believe there is also a text 2...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u87	I would ask you to forward to the Presidency the text 2 of the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u88	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. With regard to the G1-a.100 agenda, I have the text in the file, I do not have a text 2 and I confirm the favourable opinion on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u89	Amendment 1-a.1 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to amendment 1-a.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. VATTUONE (PD). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1-a.2, tabled by Senator Vattuone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1-a.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1- bis.3, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1-a.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u90	I would ask for the vote and I would like to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u92	Mr Pinotti (PD). Mr President, I am speaking because in recent weeks, especially in the Commission, those who took part in the work have learned about areas: we are talking about the red zone and we are talking about the orange zone. The red zone is the one immediately affected by the phenomenon, but anyone who has an idea of Genoa knows that that collapse was a wound that affected the whole city. It divides on the trajectory West-East but also North-South and via Walter Fillak, which is that road that unites Sampierdarena and Certosa, is in fact blocked and what was a normal path, that is, being able to cross a road to get from one neighborhood to another, is stopped. Certosa, for example, is an area where there are many shops, it was also pedestrianized for this, well as you can imagine these exercises are having a meltdown. A first estimate was made: a loss of 422 million in the three months of the bridge blockade. This concerned all activities, but what is paying the most is, in particular, the trade sector. This amendment is therefore intended to provide economic support not only, as it was right to do, for the displaced persons in the red zone, but also for the orange area. It is absolutely essential. Think that we held an assembly in Valpolcevera to hear the various needs and a worker told us how he, in fact, being employed in an activity of building materials that he has closed, finds himself out of work. I represent this to tell you what the urgency is for the orange area to be considered as well. The displaced persons themselves, who participated in this assembly, said that in the decree they found conformity on many things but who are concerned because all the tissue within which they lived is dying. I therefore really ask you to try to vote in favour of this amendment, because it is not just a request from the PD, but from the whole of the Genoese community. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u93	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1-a.4, tabled by Senator Pinotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I invite the speakers and the representative of the Government to make their views known on the agenda for G1-a.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u94	Mr President, I welcome the inclusion of the agenda in the text as set out on pages 19 and 20 of the dossier.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u95	Mr President, on behalf of the Government, I accept the agenda for G1- bis.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u96	Having been accepted by the Government, the G1- bis.100 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 1-b of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u97	Mr President, the G1-b.104 agenda merely calls for the third pass to be completed. It was rejected yesterday in the Commission, to my astonishment, because the opinion was given by Deputy Minister Rixi. I look at him and I look at Minister Toninelli; I express all my solidarity with Deputy Minister Rixi, because I know that he thinks like we do on this agenda: he has said so many times, even in interviews. Vice President Salvini himself said that the works begun ended. But here Minister Rixi is forced to give negative opinion (unless he wants to change it, which I would be happy for), even if it is simply an agenda and so there is no topic of the shuttle. The agenda says: do we want to complete a work that has already begun at 40% or not? And don't come with the mantra of the cost-benefit analysis for two reasons. First of all, because, in the case of a work already begun at 40%, not even a mad scientist would be able to prove that the benefit of not concluding it is greater than that of carrying it forward. Moreover, because the cost-benefit analysis (I said it today and I repeat it), in addition to being an instrument that we have been for twenty years and that has not invented this Government, leads to a totally political decision. The initial cost, but above all the final cost, is a number. The benefit, on the other hand, is not a number, the benefit is not only economical, but is assessed on the basis of its own cultural sensitivity. For example, for a government to make a football field in a very small country is a waste, while for another to spend money on the integration of immigrants is a beneficial thing. I made these examples only to say that the expert you appointed is right, that he says they will make their assessments, but that in the end he will decide the policy. So, politics, which is here in its highest terms with the Minister of Transport, can you tell us whether or not you want to make the third pass? We'll take note of that. It takes some seriousness and responsibility. The agenda only says: do we want to do this? By voting 'no', as you did in the Commission, the political expression you give on this issue is in my view devastating. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , negative for our country, negative for the workers and negative for all people who begin to grasp well how damaging this yellow-green experience is. It's not a change, Mr. President. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u98	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u99	Mr President, I am against Amendment 1-b.1. I am against the G1-b.100 and G1-b.104 agendas. I give a favourable opinion on the agendas for G1-b.101, G1-b.102, G1-b.103 and G1-b.105. I object to the additional amendments 1-b.0.1 and 1-b.0.02.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u100	Mr President, I am against Amendment 1-b.1. I am against the G1-b.100 and G1-b.104 agendas. I accept the agendas of the day G1-b.101 and G1-b.105. With regard to identical agendas G1-b.102 and G1-b.103, they shall be accepted provided that they are reworded by adding, after the words "2019" to the others: "I" in the first relevant measure, "I" I object to the additional amendments 1-b.0.1 and 1-b.0.02.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u101	Let us move on to amendment 1-b.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. MARGIOTTA (PD). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1-b.1, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1-b.100 tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1-b.101 will not be put to the vote. I would ask the proposers whether they accept the Government's proposal for reformulation on identical agendas G1-b.102 and G1-b.103. NASTERS (FdI). Yes, ma'am, we accept that. Ruspandini (FdI). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G1-b.102 (text 2) and G1-b.103 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1-b.104 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u104	Mr Pinotti (PD). Mr President, I am very surprised at this contrary opinion without even an attempt to change the agenda, because perhaps the government could - for example - accept at least the first commitment: 'considered the extraordinary situation (...) unlock the resources relating to the V Lotto'. I say this because in the declarations of the Government it has been said that the resources approved by CIPE in July there are but, despite this, the messages that come from the Ministry, that they say that the work is still to be evaluated, have provoked a great worry in all the workers who at this moment do not know whether the Third Pass will continue or not. So, that strikes me. And why is that? Is there such an embarrassment in the Government that, when we talk about the Third Pass, we do not even accept that part that has already been said to be there? It's serious. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is serious, and here I go back to the city, because anyone who knows the city of Genoa knows that the problem of circulation is not only due to the collapse of the Morandi bridge. Those who crossed that bridge often made hours of queue to arrive from the west to the port, because on that bridge they passed the TIR; on that bridge was passing the city traffic; on that bridge passed those who had to pass from Genoa and Genoa did not have to stop. Then, for a great city like Genoa, for the largest port of the Mediterranean whose vocation is to allow to enter and exit, the future and development are connected to this: one cannot do without this work. It really strikes me that it has been given contrary opinion without even trying to bargain, to say maybe to consider only the V Lotto; the VI has not yet been financed and we will see it. Not even that. It is indeed a very bad signal; a very bad signal also for the allies of the Movimento 5 Stars, that is, the League, who are saying in the city that they are favorable to this work. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u105	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1-b.104, presented by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G1-b.105 agenda will not be put to the vote. Let us move on to amendment 1-b.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr Pinotti (PD). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1-b.0.1, tabled by Senator Pinotti and other senators, up to the words 'of the road'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1-b.0.02 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u106	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 2 and I am in favour of the G2.100, G2.101, G2.102, G2.103 and G2.104 agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u107	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u108	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.3, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.4, tabled by Senator Pinotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr Pinotti (PD). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.5 tabled by Senator Pinotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.6, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.7, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 2.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.8, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.9, tabled by Senator Gallone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G2,100, G2,101, G2,102, G2,103 and G2,104 will not be put to the vote. Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. VATTUONE (PD). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.1, tabled by Senator Vattuone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with what has already been established during the examination in the referent, the Presidency declares that, pursuant to Article 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, amendments 4.11 and 4.201 (related to the suspension of VAT for all road haulage companies), as well as proposal 12.0.1 (in the matter of exemption for ambulances from motorway tolls), which carry provisions outside the scope of the decree-law under consideration. It also states that Amendments 3.12 and 5.14 are inadmissible, as they are not amending in scope, as well as the proposal 41.18, which provides for delegation without the indication of guiding principles and criteria. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u109	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u110	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u111	Let us move on to Amendment 3.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. BIASOTTI (FI-BP). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator Biasotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr Pinotti (PD). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.2, tabled by Senator Pinotti and other senators, up to the word 'damaged'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 3.3 are therefore not included. Let us move on to Amendment 3.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.4, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. BIASOTTI (FI-BP). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.5 tabled by Senators Biasotti and Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.6 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.7 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u112	I would ask for the vote and I would like to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u114	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, in addition to saying that we voted in favour of this amendment, I would like to point out to the Presidency that Amendment 3.12, which was also included in Amendment 3.5, has been declared inadmissible, and that part has not been declared inadmissible, and that all fiscal measures and aid are not intended to be State aid. Since it is a problem that we have already faced with the story of L'Aquila, I carefully inserted it. Beyond that, I am not calling into question the inadmissibility, but perhaps the point (d) of amendment 3.5 also had to be declared inadmissible. I simply point this out to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u115	Senator De Petris, we take note of that. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.8 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u116	We are pleased to greet the students of the Institute of Higher Education (Alfredo Panzini) in Senigallia, who attend our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u117	Let us move on to Amendment 3.9, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.9, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.10 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.10 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.11, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.12 is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u118	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 4. I give a favourable opinion on the agendas for G4,100, G4,101 and G4,102. As far as the agenda is concerned, G4.103, I turn to the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u119	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur on all the amendments and agendas that have been tabled. On the agenda G4.103, it is asked to remove from the text the last period of the premise: "the funds allocated in the decree are completely insufficient to face the emergency state following the fall of the Morandi Bridge." If this rewording is accepted, the opinion on the agenda G4.103 is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u120	Let us move on to Amendment 4.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.2, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Ruspandini (FdI). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 4.3, tabled by Senator Urso and other senators, until the following words are taken: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 4.4 and 4.5 are therefore not included. Let us move on to Amendment 4.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. GALLONE (FI-BP). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.6 tabled by Senator Gallone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Ruspandini (FdI). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.7, tabled by Senator Urso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 4.8, which is identical to Amendment 4.9, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. SCHIFANI (FI-BP). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.8, tabled by Senator Schifani, identical to Amendment 4.9, tabled by Senator Papatheu. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.10, identical to amendment 4.200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. PAPATHEU (FI-BP). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.10, tabled by Senator Schifani, identical to amendment 4.200, tabled by Senator Papatheu. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 4.11 and 4.201 cannot be proposed. We move on to amendment 4.12, identical to amendment 4.202, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. BIASOTTI (FI-BP). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.12, tabled by Senator Biasotti and other senators, identical to amendment 4.202, tabled by Senator Papatheu. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.13, which is identical to amendment 4.203, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. SCHIFANI (FI-BP). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.13, tabled by Senator Schifani, identical to amendment 4.203, tabled by Senator Papatheu. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4.16, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. MARGIOTTA (PD). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.16, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4.14, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr Pinotti (PD). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.14, tabled by Senator Pinotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4.15, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr Pinotti (PD). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.15, tabled by Senator Pinotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.17, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Toffanin (FI-BP). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.17, tabled by Senators Toffanin and Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G4,100, G4,101 and G4,102 will not be put to the vote. I would ask the proposers whether they accept the proposed reformulation proposed by the Government of the agenda G4.103. Ruspandini (FdI). Yes, Mr President, we accept the proposed reformulation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G4.103 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Let us move on to amendment 4.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Ruspandini (FdI). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.1, tabled by Senator Urso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4.0,200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.200, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. BIASOTTI (FI-BP). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.2 tabled by Senators Biasotti and Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 4 (a) of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u121	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to the article. As far as the agenda is concerned, G4-a.100, I shall return to the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u122	Mr President, the Government agrees with the rapporteur's opinion on the amendments. It welcomes the agenda G4- bis.100 after rewording, pressing the Government's commitment to assess the appropriateness of the speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u123	Let us move on to Amendment No 4-a. 1, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. VATTUONE (PD). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 4-a. 1, presented by Senator Vattuone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 4-a. 2, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. MARGIOTTA (PD). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 4-a. 2, presented by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 4-a. The 5th Commission has given an opinion against this in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution. MARGIOTTA (PD). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 4-a. 3, presented by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 4-a. 4, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. VATTUONE (PD). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 4-a. 4, presented by Senator Vattuone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 4-a.6 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr Pinotti (PD). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 4- bis.6, tabled by Senator Pinotti and other senators, up to the words "scoop" of "Senator Pinotti." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 4-a.7 are therefore excluded. Senator Margiotta, welcomes the rewording proposed by the G4 agenda government. Two hundred? MARGIOTTA (PD). Yes, ma'am, I welcome it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G4- bis.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 4-b of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u124	Mr President, I am against all the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 4b of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u125	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u126	Let us move on to amendment 4-b.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4-b.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4-b.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr Pinotti (PD). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 4-b.2 tabled by Senator Pinotti and other senators, until the words "twenty-four months" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 4-b.3 and 4-b.4 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment No 4-b.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. VATTUONE (PD). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4-b.5 tabled by Senator Vattuone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4-b.6 tabled by Senator Vattuone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 4-b.7 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr Pinotti (PD). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4-b.7 tabled by Senator Pinotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 4-b.8 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr Pinotti (PD). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4-b.8 tabled by Senator Pinotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 4-b.9 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Ruspandini (FdI). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4-b.9 tabled by Senator Ruspandini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G4-b.100, presented by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G4-b.101, presented by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4-b.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr Pinotti (PD). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 4-b.0.1, tabled by Senator Pinotti and other senators, up to the words 'to extend'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 4-b.0.02 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 4-b.0.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u127	I would ask for the vote and I would like to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u129	Mr Pinotti (PD). Mr President, we are voting on a number of amendments tabled by the Democratic Party concerning support for workers who, following the collapse of the Morandi Bridge, are experiencing a situation of extreme difficulty. I am referring both to workers who are entitled to the supplementary fund by way of derogation and to those for whom other types of support are needed because they are not covered by this social shock absorber. The intervention that has been proposed by the Government in this regard is insufficient from the economic point of view and also with reference to the times. This morning the general discussion took place, during which, at a certain point, it seemed that the issue of the measure was PD, in the sense that in many interventions it was said: "and then the PD?." Anyway, other than that, I've heard a lot of senators say they'll do it soon and well. Look, colleagues, that the forecast of the integration fund until 2018 would mean that we think that, at the end of this year, the situation will be fine. Unfortunately - and I say this with death in my heart - it will not be so and, by the way, for a long time. When a Government adopts a decree-law it does so because there are urgent situations and, consequently, the provision comes into force immediately. How come, since this decree-law was adopted, waved on September 14th, but then published on 28th, nothing happened? This happened because the decree-law was written so badly that 77 changes had to be made - some improvements, but also some changes in total - because, otherwise, with the original version, on the part of the bridge that collapsed could not intervene anyone. [[Applause from the PD Group]] So, please, let's not say that slowness is due to opposition that is obstructing. No one here has obstructed, but - indeed - we have tried to improve the text. Long times are all the government's responsibility. [[Applause from the PD Group]] For workers who will also suffer from these long times, which are your responsibility, we ask that there be more resources and more time to find them. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u130	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 4-b.0.3, tabled by Senator Pinotti and other senators, up to the words "December 2020." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 4-b.0.4 and 4-b.0.5 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u131	Mr President, the amendments we have tabled to Article 5 have a logic and come from a request that the Province of Alexandria has made to the Minister, who I do not see, about two months ago, just after the tragic events of the Morandi bridge, because the whole road network of the province of Alexandria is subject to an increase in traffic. As you know in fact Liguria and Genoa, in particular, are split in two. Amendments 5.30 and 5.31 therefore call for resources to be transferred to the Province as we are moving towards a particularly sensitive season from the point of view of road maintenance and their degradation. Inevitably, the massive increase in heavy goods vehicles as well as cars creates problems. Amendment 5.37 also raises a question as a municipality, to the entire hinterland between Liguria and the Province of Alexandria, has a problem linked to the Vocemola bridge, assigned to the Municipality of Arquata Scrivia. An extraordinary intervention is required as there are problems related to seismic and hydraulic adjustment. These are issues which, in my opinion, deserve attention and should not be underestimated. It can be discussed in the years of the issue, but, as you know, the Provinces are already in extreme difficulty. There's an emergency here because the Province couldn't predict this kind of problem. Therefore, on the one hand, there is a call for financial intervention and, on the other hand, for the issue to be referred to ANAS. Let us leave this to your assessment, but I believe that the problem cannot be underestimated.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u132	Mr President, I am prepared to withdraw Amendment 5.0.2 which concerns the civic observatory on reconstruction for the active participation of the citizens involved, and to turn it into an agenda. I would like to have an answer on this from the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u133	I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u134	Mr President, I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 5. I am in favour of the agenda G5.100, G5.101, G5.102 and G5.104. I will return to the Government on the agenda G5.103.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u135	Before we proceed, I would remind you that Senator De Petris, setting out amendment 5.0.2, pointed out that she would be willing to turn it into an agenda. , rapporteur. Mr. President, I'm going back to the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u136	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur's. With regard to Senator De Petris' amendment 5.0.2, if the presenter wishes to turn it into an agenda, it could be considered positively, of course, with the formula: "to consider the opportunity in order to encourage it." With regard to Senator Berutti's amendment 5.37, we invite the presenter to turn it into an agenda with the diction: "to assess the opportunity, in the first useful measure, to allow the completion of the seismic and hydraulic adjustment of the Vocemola bridge and to assign to the Municipality of Arquata Scrivia an extraordinary contribution, without indicating the amount. In that case, the agenda could be accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u137	Senator Berutti, do you accept the call for the change of agenda to Amendment 5,37? Mr Berutti (FI-BP). Yes, Mr. President. CRIMI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Mr President, I am in favour of the G5.103 agenda if reworded as follows: add immediately after the words 'in the context of the economic manoeuvre for the three-year period 2019-2021' the following: 'in the first useful measure', leaving the following unchanged. I am in favour of the G5.04 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u138	Let us move on to Amendment 5.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. BIASOTTI (FI-BP). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.1, tabled by Senator Biasotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 5.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 5.2, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, until the words "for the year 2019" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 5.3 are therefore not included. We move on to Amendment 5.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.4, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 5.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.5, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 5.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 5.6, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the word "euro". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 5.7 are therefore excluded. Let us turn to Amendment 5.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr Pinotti (PD). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.8, tabled by Senator Pinotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.9, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.20 tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 5.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.11, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 5.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Ruspandini (FdI). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.12, tabled by Senator Urso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 5.13, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.13, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.14 is inadmissible. We move on to Amendment 5.15, which is identical to Amendment 5.28, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u139	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u141	CRIMI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Mr President, I would like to ask Senator De Petris, if she is available, to withdraw amendment 5.15, which is identical to amendment 5.28, and to turn it into an agenda (as it was the Government's intention to call for this type of intervention) which would read as follows: 'to raise the Liguria Region to consider whether a survey plan should be carried out'. In this case, the Government is willing to accept it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u142	Senator De Petris, do you accept the government's invitation? DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Yes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call on the rapporteurs to comment on the G5.15 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u143	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u144	Having been accepted by the Government, the G5.15 agenda will not be put to the vote. Amendment 518 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 5.16, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.16 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 5.17, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.17, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 5.19, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.19, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 5.20, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of amendment 5.20, tabled by Senator Schifani, until the words "August 2018" are mentioned. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder and amendments 5.21, 5.22 and 5.23 are therefore excluded. We move on to amendment 5.32, identical to amendment 5.24, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.32, tabled by Senator Schifani, identical to Amendment 5.24, tabled by Senator Papatheu. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 5.33, which is identical to amendment 5.25, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As a request has been made, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 5.33, tabled by Senator Schifani, identical to amendment 5.25, tabled by Senator Papatheu, until the words "emergency" are given. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder and amendments 5.34, 5.26, 5.35 and 5.27 are therefore not included. Let us move on to Amendment 5.28, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 5.28 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "In order to do so." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder and amendments 5,29, 5,30 and 5,36 are therefore excluded. Amendment 5,37 has been changed to agenda G5,37 which, having been accepted by the Government, will not be put to the vote. Let us move on to amendment 5.31, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr Berutti (FI-BP). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.31, tabled by Senators Berutti and Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G5.100, G5.101 and G5.102 will not be put to the vote. Senator Bruzzone, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G5.103? BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas G5.103 (text 2) and G5. 104 will not be put to the vote. Amendment 5.0.2 has been changed to agenda G5.0.2 which, having been accepted by the Government, will not be put to the vote. Let us move on to Amendment 5.0.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. MARGIOTTA (PD). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 5.0.3 tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators, up to the words "Rete Ferroviaria Italiana S.p.A.". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 5.0.4. are therefore excluded. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Let us move on to Amendment 5.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I shall withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us move on to Amendment 5.0.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. BIASOTTI (FI-BP). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 5.0.5, tabled by Senators Biasotti and Mallegni, until the words "At the end". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 5.0.6. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 5.0.7 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr Pinotti (PD). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.0.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u145	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u147	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, this amendment refers to some of the major infrastructures that affect Genoese reality, particularly the Third Jupiter Pass. We pay attention to this infrastructure, because we do not agree in the most absolute way as the analysis of costs and benefits is bringing damage to that city. (17.35) (Followed by Mr D'Arienzo). Blocking that infrastructure means blocking an activity, that port, that airport, that of the future of the city, that could have a very negative impact on the development and the increase. So we put to the attention of the Assembly the need to continue in the design and the executive part of the Third Pass, because we consider it fundamental for the growth of Liguria and Genoa in particular. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u148	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.7 tabled by Senator Pinotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.8, tabled by Senator Pinotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u149	Mr President, I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 6.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u150	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u151	We move on to amendment 6.0.1, identical to amendment 6.0.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.0.1, tabled by Senator Pinotti and other senators, identical to amendment 6.0.2, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendment to Article 6a of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u152	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u153	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u154	Let us move on to amendment 6-a.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6- bis.1, tabled by Senators Biasotti and Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u155	Mr President, I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 7, including the additional amendment 7.0.1, and on the G7 102 agenda. As far as agendas are concerned, G7,100 and G7,101 are concerned, I refer to the Government's opinion. I also voted in favour of the agendas for G7,103 and G7,104.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u156	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. As regards the G7100 agenda, I am in favour of the following rewording: With regard to the agenda G7.101, I am in favour of the following rewording: after the word 'and' insert the words:
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u157	Let us move on to Amendment 7.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 7.1 tabled by Senator Gallone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 7.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 7.2, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 7.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 7.3, tabled by Senator Berutti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 7.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.4, tabled by Senators Biasotti and Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 7.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.5, tabled by Senator Nastri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 7.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u158	I would ask for the vote and I would like to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u160	Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, Article 7 establishes the simplified logistics zone - Genoa Port and Retroporto, to include the rear ports of Rivalta Scrivia, Novi San Bovo, Alessandria, Piacenza, Castellazzo Bormida, Ovada Belforte, Dinazzo and Melzo and Vado Ligure. Being included in the simplified area allows companies operating on these sites to enjoy simplified procedures and, consequently, lower costs, greater competitiveness, but above all the possibility to benefit from public contributions. The interporto of Turin Orbassano, Mondovì and Novara, the latter located right on the director Genoa-Milano, remain excluded. Then, by introducing paragraph 1-a, the Minister is given the power to integrate the listed sites at a later stage. This mechanism only creates false illusions and uncertainties for the cities that will remain excluded from the logistics area. Then I wonder why we should not do this in the appropriate place here in Parliament? The Government, probably, will have thought scientifically of being able to maximize, with the approval of this amendment, the consent to the next regional elections in Piedmont, having the power until the last moment to grant the option of integration in this list. If the intentions are really those to widen the simplified logistic zone, why not approve our amendment, that integrates and widens the list of the retroporti of Genoa, including precisely the important cities of Turin, Orbassano, Mondovì and Novara. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u161	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 7.6 tabled by Senator Laus. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.7, tabled by Senator Biasotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 7.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.8, tabled by Senator Urso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 7.9 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.9 tabled by Senator Urso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.10 tabled by Senator Vattuone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 7.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.11, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.12, tabled by Senator Berutti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I ask Senator Margiotta if he accepts the rewording of the agenda G7100. MARGIOTTA (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G7100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I ask Senator Vattuone if he accepts the rewording of the agenda G7.101. VATTUONE (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G7.101 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator Vattuone, do you insist on voting on agenda G7 102?
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u162	Mr President, I would like to insist on the agenda G7 102, which always concerns the simplified logistics zone and with which, in a concerted strategy of all the Ligurian ports, we have asked to activate an institutional table also for the logistic zone of La Spezia and for the retroporto of Santo Stefano Magra. On a similar agenda in the House of Deputies there has been some kind of sharing, so I ask the Government to review the negative opinion on this, in order to align us with the House of Deputies' position on this matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u163	Does the representative of the government confirm the contrary opinion previously expressed?
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u164	Mr President, I confirm the opposite opinion on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u165	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G7 102, tabled by Senator Vattuone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G7,103 and G7,104 will not be put to the vote. Let us move on to amendment 7.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.0.1, tabled by Senator Pinotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 8 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u166	Mr President, I am against all the amendments. I am against the draft agenda and I am against the G8.100 and I am against the G8.101 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u167	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. With regard to the agenda G8.100, I would like to say that there has already been a broad debate in the House on this subject and a sharing of intentions. Therefore, much more specific agendas have been approved, aimed at re-evaluating, after a certain time, the implementation of the rules provided for in this decree-law, in order to verify the desirability of extending the periods, since the specific indication of an extension of the period of calculation of the turnover that has been reduced could also have negative effects on the enterprises that can access this contribution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u168	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.2, tabled by Senator Biasotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 8.3, which is identical to amendment 8.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution, since it has been requested, I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.3, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendment 8.4, tabled by Senator Pinotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.5, tabled by Senator Urso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.6 tabled by Senator Urso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.7, tabled by Senator Urso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.9, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.9, tabled by Senator Pinotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.8, tabled by Senator Urso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.10 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.10 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.11, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Margiotta, do you insist on voting on the agenda G8.100? MARGIOTTA (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G8.100, presented by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G8.101 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 9 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u169	Mr President, I am against all the amendments and the G9.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u170	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u171	Let us move on to Amendment 9.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.1, tabled by Senator Urso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 9.2, which is identical to Amendment 9.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u172	I would ask for the vote and I would like to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u174	Mr Pinotti (PD). Mr President, I asked to speak because, as I mentioned earlier, this decree-law had a number of versions. A first version, before it passed to the Council of Ministers, had significant resources for the port of Genoa. You see, the port of Genoa is, in fact, the largest employer in the North-West (one speaks of 176,000 employees, between direct and indirect), so it is not only important for Genoa, but for Italy as a whole. Who works in port is verifying that, already now, there is a 20 percent less income of harbour taxes than what happened before the collapse of the Morandi bridge. Not to mention the inconveniences that the drivers have: think of how much they have had to lengthen the journey and how much more it costs for them to have to carry the goods, not only in terms of time, but of gasoline and hours worked. Economic damage of EUR 6.5-6.6 million was calculated only for road hauliers. You then understand that the resources that have been allocated to the port are very little compared to the damage that it is suffering. Who works in port says: give us at least the certainty of who will rebuild the bridge and in how long, otherwise who must organize you reorganize and the traffics, instead of continuing to arrive to Genoa, go from other parts and not even of Italy, but to Rotterdam or Antwerp. We with this decree-law the certainty of who builds the bridge and in how long we do not give it. But at least we give the port resources to survive. I heard someone say: we will find them in the law of stability, in the budget maneuver. So, since we are considering budgetary maneuver and this decree-law at the same time, why not include here an amendment that says: we give resources to the bridge and then we will find cover in the budget law? If this is not done, I am sorry: then the promises, given through the press, to find more resources for the port of Genoa are empty promises. If the promises are to have something written and real, this amendment must be voted on. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u175	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.2, tabled by Senator Pinotti and other senators, identical to amendment 9.3, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 9.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.4, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.5, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G9.100, presented by Senator Vattuone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 9-a of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u176	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 9a.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u177	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u178	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9- bis.1, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9- bis.2 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 9-a.1 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9-a.1 tabled by Senator Vattuone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 9-a.0.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 9- bis.0.2, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 9-b of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u179	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u180	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u181	Let us move on to amendment 9-b.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9-b.1, tabled by Senators Biasotti and Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 9-b.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 9-b.0.1, tabled by Senators Biasotti and Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 9-b.0.3, which is identical to amendment 9-b.0.200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9-b.0.3, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators, identical to amendment 9-b.0.200, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9-b.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 9-b.0.2 tabled by Senators Biasotti and Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 10 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u182	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u183	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u184	Let us move on to amendment 10.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 10.0.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 11 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u185	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u186	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u187	Let us move on to amendment 11.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.0.2 tabled by Senator Pinotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 11.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 11.0.1, tabled by Senator Pinotti and other senators, up to the words "In order to do so." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder and amendments 11.0.3 and 11.0.4. are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 12 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u188	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments. The opinion was in favour of the G12,100, G12,102 and G12,103 agendas. Instead, the opinion is opposed to the agendas for G12.101 and G12.104.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u189	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u190	Let us move on to Amendment 12.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 12.1 tabled by Senator Biti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 12.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 12.2, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators, up to the words 'of the railways and 'of the railways'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 12.3 and 12.4. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 12.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12.5, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 12.6 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12.6 tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment No 12.7 tabled by Senator Biti, identical to Amendment No 12.8, tabled by Senator Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.9 tabled by Senator Nastri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 12.10 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12.10 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.12, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.11, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 12.13, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.13, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 12.14, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 12.14, tabled by Senator Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 12.15, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 12.15 tabled by Senator Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.16 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 12.17, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.17, tabled by Senator De Petris and knows other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.18, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.19, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 12.20, which is identical to Amendment 12.21, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 12.20 tabled by Senator Biti, identical to Amendment 12.21 tabled by Senator Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 12.22, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators, to the following words: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 12.23 are therefore excluded. Having been accepted by the Government, the G12.100 agenda will not be put to the vote. Senator Parrini, do you insist on voting on the agenda G12.101? Mr Parrini (PD). No, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G12.102 and G12.103 will not be put to the vote. Senator Margiotta, do you insist on voting on the agenda G12.104? MARGIOTTA (PD). Yes, Mr President, I am asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G12.104, presented by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 12.0.1 is not possible. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 13 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u191	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to the article.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u192	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u193	Let us move on to Amendment 13.1 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.1 tabled by Senator Nastri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13.2 tabled by Senators Biasotti and Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13.3 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 13.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 13.0.1, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 14 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u194	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u195	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u196	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.1, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 14.2, tabled by Senator Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 14.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.1, tabled by Senators Berardi and Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 16 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u197	Mr President, I am against all the amendments. I turn to the Government for the G16,100 agenda, while I support the remaining agendas referred to in Rule 16.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u198	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur on the amendments. On the G16,100 agenda, I am in favour of rewording the last line from the words: It was approved by decree of the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. This reformulation accepted the agenda. For the remaining agendas, the opinion was in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u199	Let us move on to amendment 16.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to point out that the first part of amendment 16.1, tabled by Senators Berutti and Mallegni, has been voted by a simultaneous ballot, until the words "a-ter" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 16.2 to 16.5 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.6 tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Does Senator Arrigoni accept the rewording proposed by the G16,100 agenda government? Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G16.100 (text 2), G16.101, G16.102, G16.103, G16.104 and G16.105 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 16-a of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u200	Mr President, I am against all the amendments. On the agenda, Mr G16-a.100, I turn to the Government; I am against the agenda, Mr G16-a.101, and I am in favour of the agenda, Mr G16-a.102.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u201	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. With regard to the agenda G16- bis.100, I welcome the adoption of a rewording to replace, in the first line of the part of the provisions, the word: "forecast" by the word: "value" and "expunging" the following words: "within 30 days of the entry into force of this measure."
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u202	Do the proposers accept the proposed rewording of the G16-a.100 agenda? MARGIOTTA (PD). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G16- bis.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G16- bis.101, presented by Senator Misiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G16- bis.102 will not be put to the vote. Let us move on to amendment 16-a.1 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16-a.1 tabled by Senator Misiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 16-a.0.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 16- bis.0.2, tabled by Senator Gallone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16- bis.0.3, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 16-a.0.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16-a.0.4 tabled by Senator Misiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16-a.0.5, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 17 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u203	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments to Article 17.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u204	Mr President, the opinion is in accordance with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u205	In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, amendments 17.1 and 17.2 are impervious. Let us move on to amendment 17.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.3 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 18 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u206	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u207	Mr President, the opinion is in accordance with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u208	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 18.2 tabled by Senator Papatheu and other senators, until the words 'orders' are put forward. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 18.3 and 18.4. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.5, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 20 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u209	Mr President, the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u210	Mr President, the opinion is in accordance with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u211	Let us move on to amendment 20.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.1, tabled by Senators Biasotti and Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 21 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u212	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u213	Mr President, the opinion is in accordance with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u214	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 21.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 21.2 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 22 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u215	Mr President, the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u216	Mr President, the opinion is in accordance with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u217	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 23 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u218	Mr President, I am against the amendments to Rule 23.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u219	Mr President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u220	Let us move on to amendment 23.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.2 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 25 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u221	Mr President, Amendment 25.1 is, in our view, the heart of Ischia's pardon. Let it be clear that we have not only spoken of pardon because Senator De Siano di Forza Italia said so officially this morning in his speech, in which he said that he was happy because the word pardon has been cleared in this Parliament. That is, the Senator said that in this Parliament, where the relative majority party is the Movimento 5 Stars, after decades of struggles and battles so that the pardon could be cleared, finally it was. You must also agree with Salvini's words or, indeed, perhaps even better, Salvini should agree with himself. In fact, today in an agency he said that building abuse must be stopped. It is not enough - and our amendment puts the issue at the center - a vocabulary semantic change: the building pardon can also be called surgery, but always building pardon is. You can change the meaning, but the meaning remains the same. Senator Castaldi said this morning they're trying to do what we didn't do. He understood exactly the spirit. We have never made any condolences, whereas, as we have already said and demonstrated in the minority report this morning, this is the fourth pardon. The 5 Star Movement does so after five months of government, the League does so for the third time to the third Government in which it participates. I would also like to add a note related to the amendment. At yesterday's Commission sitting, Mr President, none of the Democratic Party came out. We've been voting to the end. On the contrary, we understand that the 5 Star Movement has kicked out those who defend legality, but on this you will do the math. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In conclusion, Mr President, Amendment 25.1 simply states that the article on pardon should be deleted.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u222	Mr President, I would like to make it quite clear that on Article 25, yesterday in the Commission too, we made several attempts to try to make the majority somehow rethink. Today I make yet another appeal to the Senators of the Movimento 5 Stars; why to them? Among other things, I would like to remind you that in this very House, as in the House, there has been a battle over the famous bill Falanga, which dealt precisely with the issue of abuses and condones in Campania and, in particular, in Ischia. I would like to briefly explain the deletion amendment in order to respond also to a number of issues and objections raised today in the debate and, in part, also in the Commissions. We have, in fact, continued to say that this is not a pardon and that here we are merely defining - someone has read the article - the procedures to give the municipalities the opportunity to define the requests. Other things have also been said which we will then have a chance to intervene on. Too bad that Article 25 has been designed so that - we shall see when we arrive at the amendment adopted last night in the Commission - the definitions of these procedures intervene mainly on condones that cannot be resolved and you know it perfectly well. They can't be agreed! This is the heart. You say: we are beginning to define procedures and to respond to requests. However, it is no coincidence that in Article 25 you included the Grimaldello, which is the famous amendment adopted last night in the Commission to delete this part. It is the grimaldello to make sure that we can respond and condone real estate that could not be condoned, also in the light of the 1994 and, above all, 2003. You have therefore inserted the reference to the first pardon of 1985. Do not try to say that the reference to Chapters IV and V already refers to the respect of the constraints, because the majority of the constraints (especially the landscape constraint of 1999 for the island of Ischia) means that, in fact, many of those questions cannot be accepted and that, therefore, the real estate cannot be healed, also because the majority of the constraints were placed later. I am thinking, in particular, not only of the specific landscape constraints for Ischia, but of the Galasso decree, the so-called "Galassini" decrees and all the hydrogeological constraints. That is the attempt you have made and we will see it when we come to the debate on the amendment approved by the Commission. The purpose of my intervention - which I submit to the Government and the speakers - is to rethink it because you are still in time to make sure that the so-called Genoa decree does not pass to history - would be a grave wrong for all those who are suffering and have suffered for what happened in that city - like the fourth pardon of this country, where the only law that is worth - other than respect for legality - is the one that says not to pay taxes and not to worry because, sooner or later, a pardon will come, that punctually arrives. It's like saying, do you continue to abuse? Very well, be quiet because, even where it seems impossible to heal and condone, sooner or later a condon will come. This is what you are doing to the face of legality and honesty. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u223	Mr President, I would like to make a brief comment on my amendment 25.30. With the amendment I would like to add to paragraph 3 the adverb "not" before the words "object of the pardon" are added. I'll explain. Paragraph 3 states: However, the contribution shall not be due to the part relating to any increase in the volume covered by the release. We ask for the insertion of the adverb "not" before the word "object" because we believe that the constructions on which depends the application of building sanatoria, once examined and granted the concession in sanatoria, are in fact and in all respects legitimate and therefore legitimate houses. Since they are legitimate, it is up to them to contribute, if they have been demolished by the events of the earthquake of 21 August 2017. I would first like to ask the attention of my Parent Company and of my Group's friends and colleagues in relation to Amendment 25.12, which was approved yesterday, except by myself, in the Commission by the members of my Group. This amendment aims to restore the difference in regime between the laws on building allowances, i.e. between Law No 47 of 1985, the 1994 pardon and the 2003 pardon. Although it is theoretically acceptable and motivated by the need to lead to consistency in the regulatory system, it is not considered the specificity of the area in which the amended norm is destined to produce its own affections, not only and not so much because of the emerging nature of the forecast of Article 25 of the decree-law under consideration, which arises with the aim of facilitating reconstruction in the municipalities damaged by the earthquake in the island of Ischia, but rather to allow the effective disposal of the stocks of the applications for pardon that can be examined only through the use, even in a subsidiary way, of the evaluation criteria established by Law No 47 of 1985. In fact, only in this way can the applications relating to the 1994 and 2003 pardons be examined, otherwise not possible, as the level of landscape planning within the competence of the administration of environmental goods is still lacking. I would like to remind myself and this Parliament that the Campania Region is still the only Region in Italy without a landscape plan, that is, a law that regulates, through its own rules, the development of the territory and the protection of the landscape. This is not yet allowed to us bell citizens and for this we must thank the regional governments of the left of the last twenty years. This does not mean, however, that it is not guaranteed, through the reference to Law No 47 of 1985, by the use of the subsidiary criterion of the first pardon, an adequate degree of environmental protection. In fact, Article 33 of Law No 47 of 1985 clearly indicates the cases of absolute incondonability and Article 32 that of relative condonability, in the sense that the practice is allowed to sanatorium only after the favourable opinion of the superintendence. The original wording of the first paragraph of Article 25 of the Decree-Law, which the amendment voted on yesterday in the Commission amended and thus amended it, should this House confirm yesterday's vote in the Commission, should be restored, the possibility that reconstruction in the municipalities affected by the earthquake on the island of Ischia will not take place. For this reason, first of all, I would like to ask my Group and my Parent Company to give careful consideration to this extremely important issue which Forza Italia has been carrying out for fifteen years in Campania, because it feels the need to resolve a situation that has caused so much suffering to many people in Campania. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u224	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u225	Mr President, I am in favour of the G25,100 and G25,102 agenda and against the G25,101 agenda. I am against all the amendments and the additional amendment 25.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u226	Mr President, the Government is against the amendments and agrees with the rapporteur on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u227	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u228	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u229	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I rise to explain the position of the Group of Brothers of Italy. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in line with what has been said in the Commission and also during the election campaign, we can only vote against Article 25 and therefore in favour of the deletions of the individual paragraphs and the Article. We must pursue honesty also in words and concepts: all that helps to realize or perfect a pardon is itself a pardon. This we must tell ourselves clearly; we cannot revolve around reality. We know the reality of Ischia, as you know it, but we knew it before, as colleagues now knew it in the government, when they preached very different things, when they preached extremist moralism, saying that there would never be any more condones. Now she's changed her mind. We support the amendments and believe that we can make choices at least less impacting than those written in this rule. We believe that a pardon should be paid at least: two lire to the state to condone abusive homes do we want to put them or not? [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Here we realize this masterpiece so we allow citizens to heal homes, buildings, hotels, second homes and God only knows what, without paying a single euro to the administration of the City or State, except then finance these same people with the citizens' money. You have realized a true masterpiece of the renewal of politics: congratulations. Our vote will be consistently against this measure. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u230	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u231	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u232	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, I refer to my amendments 25,200, 25,20 and 25,201. These amendments stem precisely from the need to clarify to everyone that the Movimento 5 Stars has never understood and does not intend to give rise to a new pardon. Since the decree-law gives a period of six months to all those questions that are still suspended to date, these amendments stipulate that, if the Municipalities do not have to reply within the six-month period, six months and one day, in order to avoid that such silence can be understood as a silence assent and that therefore all those practices can be defined positively and unconditionally simply because there is talk of a silence assent, such silence must be understood as a silence refusal. With Amendment No 25,200 we clarify the matter, because otherwise, if it were not, it would be a great pardon, moreover, a pardon to insulin. In some recent statements, Minister Costa, precisely following what happened in an abusive house, where unfortunately people died, stated that he wanted to tear down and then eliminate all abusive houses. At this point, why not extend the six-month term to all the municipalities of Italy? So in six months we will have a map of all the houses that are to be demolished and we will be able to create this fantastic plan of demolition of all the abusive houses, which will not be condoned in case of silence refusal, as provided for in the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u233	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u234	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u235	CRIMI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Mr President, I would like to make a moment of clarity on Article 25, taking advantage of this second reading in the Senate to clarify a few things. There is no potenziamento of condones. [[Comments from the PD Group]] MALPEZZI (PD). You wrote it! CRIMI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. There is simply a preferential assessment in terms of timing, with fast activities, exclusively - I would like to point out - for buildings damaged by the earthquake. I have some data here that I would like to read to you because it is good for everyone to know what numbers and what we are talking about before we talk about condones and tombstones. [[Comments from the PD Group]] We are talking, for the municipality of Lacco Ameno (I have the certified numbers that I have just received) of 1,910 applications for forgiveness referable to the three canons of 1985, 1994 and 2003. I repeat: 1.910. Of these questions, those of 2003, that is to say those who object to the content of this law would have a preferential lane with a derogation, are 368: 20%. [[Comments from the PD Group]] I ask you to listen to me to the full, if you have this correctness. I've listened silently to you like everyone else. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PS D'Az groups]] I said it's 20 percent of the total. How many properties are damaged by the earthquake in the Municipality of Lacco Ameno? There are a total of 400 properties. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Among these 400 properties there are schools, churches, tourist-receptive activities, business and professional studies. MALPEZZI (PD). Were the schools abusive? Mr Marcucci (PD). All Di Maio's friends. CRIMI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. So 400, including schools and churches. Now, if mathematics is not an opinion (and also statistics), if 20 percent of the questions are from 2003, I can imagine that the applications for forgiveness of buildings damaged by the earthquake in the Municipality of Lacco Ameno relative to 2003 are 80, including schools and churches. These are the numbers. [[Protests from the PD Group. Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u236	Let the government representative speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u237	CRIMI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. This is a mandatory route. In order to be able to define the procedures of contributions for reconstruction, where necessary, I would like to clarify this, it is necessary and mandatory to define those applications for forgiveness that have been waiting for thirty-three years. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I would like to add one thing, and I do so because even if there is confusion I know that from home they listen to us, and so they can have at least a little truth about the many falsehoods that have been said these days. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u238	Senator Pharaoh, stop! CRIMI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Article 33 of Law No 47 of 1985 - not 2003 - says that no real estate can be repaired in any way located in areas subject to absolute inefficiability constraints and this already gives you a further guarantee. I would add another element: before we proceed to the reconstruction, as you know, an extraordinary commissioner has been appointed who is not a political authority, so critical moves can be made to the institutions that have delayed thirty-three years to define the applications for forgiveness submitted at the time, but the extraordinary commissioner, in agreement with the Civil Protection, has already started the evaluation activity for seismic microzonation and therefore will be carried out a relocation plan so that any reconstructions, where necessary, where they have a right to reconstruction and contribution, take place safely. At the end of all this we will have a thousand safe houses in Ischia. Maybe we should tell the citizens that!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u239	[[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Of those condoned situations, finally, a thousand homes will be anti-seismic, will be removed from situations of hydrogeological risk and will be relocated for the purpose of landscape protection. That's the truth. MALPEZZI (PD). You're condoning! It's Di Maio's pardon! CRIMI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. This is what will happen, and the government, at the end of the six months, will report to Parliament on the state of the art. VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Shame on you! Shame!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u240	Senator Malpezzi! Senator Marcucci, you're the Leader: you get caught with your hands! [[Protests from the PD Group]] Senator Laus, I'm gonna call you back to order, and I'm gonna call you back to the colleague who's behind you, but in that case, I'm gonna despair. [[Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] Senator, are you jealous of colleagues?
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u241	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u242	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u243	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I am speaking on the deletion of the Rule. I would like to remind the Undersecretary, who is of course aware of this, that the title of Article 25 is: "Defining the procedures for pardon". [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD.]] Secondly, you have taught me that it is not just a matter of numbers but a matter of principle. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD]] and here you make a very precise choice. Thirdly, the parameters on which this condonation will be based go far beyond the rules that were introduced after 1985, in relation to hydrogeological safety. I would also like to ask a question, to which I would like to have a precise answer, also in relation to the intervention of a 5 Star Movimento senator, whom I have shared and will vote on those amendments. When we talk about a service conference, will silence-consent take place? He's gonna shoot? Yes or no? Because from here a very disturbing mechanism will begin. Finally, from another point of view you are introducing an inequality and inequality between those who have suffered damage in those Municipalities of Ischia and those who, in those thirty years when the questions have not been defined, have not received an answer. Are you sure you won't open another pardon the day after tomorrow? [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD.]] MALPEZZI (PD). Minister, you answer!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u244	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u245	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u246	MARGIOTTA (PD). Mr President, the word 'condon' alone causes me to feel sick. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] These are not my words, nor the PD's, but they are the words of Minister Costa, who has just been quoted. [[Applause from the PD Group]] MALPEZZI (PD). Bravo! MARGIOTTA (PD). Mr President, Mr Di Maio, Vice-President of the Council, said that he would ask for the PD card if we had ever listened to him once to talk about pardon. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Now we are talking about pardon: we are talking about pardon Di Maio-Nicolazzi, because, as has been recalled, among all procedures he chose the oldest and the most permissive, not by chance. Mr President, the house collapsed in Sicily a few days ago was abusive and a pardon was requested for it. Mr President, the only palace collapsed in Ischia in 2017 had been asked for pardon, because it had been raised by a floor. [[Applause from the PD Group]] MALPEZZI (PD). Bravo! MARGIOTTA (PD). Mr President, when we talk about condons, we are not just talking about canopies for houses by the sea but about over-elevations, houses built in the beehives of rivers at risk of exondation and people endangering their own lives, their children and third parties. That is what we are talking about. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We would have imagined that, after all that happened, the government would take the initiative to remove this part. President Errani is right: the example counts, not the numbers. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Moreover, undersecretary, he chose the smallest of the municipalities; he could choose one of the largest and the numbers would be different (but one would be enough). [[Applause from the PD Group]] What's the deal? What's he hiding? What did you trade for the building pardon? The tax pardon? The mud we're gonna talk about? What? Where is this exchange? Why does Di Maio care so much? Shame on you: using the tragedy of Genoa to hide a pardon is shameful! [[Applause from the PD Group]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Honesty! Honesty! CIRINNA' (PD). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, your group has already intervened. Either you speak out against your colleague, or you have already spoken to Senator Margiotta.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u247	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u248	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u249	LUPE (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. Unfortunately, before, during the rebuttal of the Undersecretary Crimes, we heard perfectly an insult coming from the side of the PD benches. I understand the debate, I also understand how to turn on and get on, but the swearing in this House sincerely seems excessive to me. [[Comments from the PD Group. Applause from the M5S Group]] This is not the first time and President Calderoli can confirm this. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] MIRABELLI (PD). What about the ones you say on TV? What are you talking about? Be a good girl. LUPE (M5S). It's no use warming up. Mr President, with all due respect for this House and colleagues, it is not normal to listen once again to bad words addressed, among other things, to a member of the Government. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] You can also say that it is not true, but unfortunately the truth can also be heard. That's why we're gonna try to prove it from the shorthand report. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u250	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u251	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u252	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, I too am speaking on the order of business. I have a doubt and perhaps someone should answer me, since we have authoritative members of the Government sitting in this House. If we are examining a bill called "Conversion to Law" (...), which contains urgent provisions for the city of Genoa, I would like to know two things. The first: why is Article 25 called "Defination of the procedures of condoning" and does not have to do with Genoa? The second: I am of a bad nature, President, and I went to open the Official Journal with which Senator Crimes was given the powers. I understand Senator Crimi has some delegations concerning publishing... president. Senator Cirinna, I'm sorry, this has nothing to do with the order of business. CIRINNA' (PD). Yeah, because he's been talking so far, explaining "The Anything." We have here the competent Minister, who may be ashamed to explain firsthand to the Genoese who are in charge of Ischia. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u253	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u254	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u255	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, very quietly, I feel obliged to respond. I do not know what Mr Wolf was talking about. Certainly I remember very well the many swear words and insults that for five years we heard from the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups. Comments from the M5S Group.]] If any of ours were allowed, he probably took example and teaching from their way of doing it. It seems to me that even on television, with regard to journalists, it is the Ministers of the 5 Stars who should be ashamed to say it, insolent journalists, parliamentarians and institutions. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] Shame on you as you speak! [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]] [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Honesty! Honesty!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u256	Since it's a commodity that comes and goes, let's take it and good night. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.1 tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators, identical to amendments 25.2 tabled by Senator Martelli and 25.3 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 25.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 25.4 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.5, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 25.6 has been withdrawn. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 25.7 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the word "paragraph ". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 25.8 and 25.9. are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u257	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u258	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u259	MARTELLI (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to ask you about Amendment 25.8. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It is precluded by the rejection of the first part of amendment 25.7. MARTELLI (Mixed). Thank you, Mr President. I shall now take the floor in an explanation of vote on Amendments Nos 25,26 and 25,201.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u260	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 25.10, which is identical to Amendment 25.12.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u261	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u262	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u263	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, with regard to both amendments, I would like to highlight some aspects that have characterized the work of our parliamentary group before in the Commission and now in this House. The attitude we have taken with regard to this amendment in the Commission has shown, first of all, a profound split within the majority, which has been particularly evident in the Movimento 5 Star Group, and on which our political position has certainly acted as a detonator. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We have listened very carefully to the issues that have been discussed in general; never, as in this case, has the general debate been fruitful in the Commission, but certainly also in this House. We have listened to the voices of the territories: the characteristic of our political movement has always been to listen very carefully to the voices of the territories and never to delegitimize, never to disconfirm the political battles that our parliamentarians have in the years fought with commitment on the territories. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have a great deal of respect for all the very critical speeches that have been made today, and also in the Commission these days. But let's not forget that behind the arid numbers of the record dates of the condones there are people, families, expectations even very legitimate, who have been waiting for more than twenty years to be fulfilled and honored [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , or at least to have an answer, whether positive or negative. As a political movement that does not have a military approach, that has always recognized and valued dissent - I ask all colleagues to recognize that never and never, while witnessing other attitudes from colleagues from other parliamentary groups, have obscured our dissent - we claim that once again we wanted to give each of us - and we will do so in this House too - the opportunity to represent our own territories, their own sensibilities, their own populations, their own citizens, the needs of their own areas of origin. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And we will do so in this case by giving freedom of vote on Amendment 25.12; we will do so in line with the attitude we have taken here in this House as in the Commission. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We will and will do so again, because we believe not in ideology, but in the force of the true and present application of our freedom to be ourselves. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u264	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u265	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u266	GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Mr President, I turn to the Government to say that it is true that sometimes the word does not help in defending what is indefensible. This is especially true for a part of this Government, since, if I remember correctly, one of the five stars is that of ecology and the environment, which you always flagship. I understand the embarrassment and I know that you are embarrassed by the term "condon" and that you try to use another word. But just you, who have made us "a big boss" throughout the electoral campaign to the cry of "honesty", "legality" and "galera" (because your recipe is that everything is resolved by putting people in jail, less the one that should go to jail), then have the courage to come here and say that you have changed your mind. We human beings can change our minds, but what we cannot do in the institutions and in this House is try to take us and the Italians by the nose. Do you think the pardon is an electoral consensus? Do you think one of your campaigners promised this measure in exchange for the vote? Say it! Have courage, the courage that made you fill the streets by saying things about which, at first, you proved otherwise. You Jacobins of the fifth or eighth Republic that you are here today, to take by the nose the Italians and to want to change the language of our nation, do you want the pardon? Tell me clearly, here and in the squares. And that beautiful manifesto of honesty and legality you can no longer flag it. Because Italians are not fools: they can make mistakes, but they are very intelligent in not persevering. [[Applause from the FdI and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u267	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u268	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u269	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, this is the amendment on which the majority in the Commission was defeated last night. It is an amendment that we have supported because it limited the great message that is coming out of this House today, namely: live the smart, past, present and future. Because that is exactly the message that is being sent in this House. You see, Mr President, there are Italian citizens who, due to slight discrepancies at this time, are before the judges. This decree-law, on the other hand, operates a grave pardon on absolute abuses. What will those voting against say to Italian citizens? That there are Italians of series A and of series B? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Or, perhaps, will they say that there are ordinary Italian citizens and that instead, there are Italian citizens who have the grace to live in the constituency of Vice President Di Maio? [[Applause from the PD Group]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Bravo! Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, this is what we are talking about. Among other things, we saw today in the press that for the same house as the Vice Premier was applied for pardon on the basis of the law referred to in this amendment. What does this amendment say? Let us at least limit the damage; at least let us ensure that Law No. 47 of 1985 is not the reference text for the pardon in question. We were very pleased, very happy, to vote together with Forza Italia last night. We must say, however, and I say this to you, Mr President, because we are now a little disconcerted. In fact, it is really disturbing that, since a part of that party has made the apology, saying that finally the pardon has been customsed in Parliament by the Government of Movimento 5 Stars, only for this reason five minutes after us, after a support we gave to Forza Italia on this amendment, we are abandoned in the vote. Of course, you will understand that this does not scandalize us so much and certainly does not mortify our convictions, but, Mr President, we certainly call for a second thought, so that there is at least a limitation to the tombal pardon that, in the absence of this amendment, would be carried out. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u270	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u271	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u272	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, once again, that offer that this amendment already adopted in the Commission is an opportunity, because I believe that in this House the majority, by voting on it, can at least try to reduce the damage. I say this by making, once again, one last appeal. As I have already said in the illustration of the deletion amendment, you use the last period of Article 25, so the reference to the 1985 pardon to make what - as you know perfectly well - is not condonable. All those who have continued to insist that Article 33 of Law No 47 of 1985 would already have the constraints know very well that this is not the case, because the binding constraints, the hydrogeological and the landscape ones have been defined later and the related laws promulgated after 1985. It is not by chance that 1985's pardon is known, in literature and law, as the largest ever in this country. Even the successive pardons had to deal with the rules that Parliament had in the meantime approved in an attempt to save our territory. The serious thing for which I appeal is the scope of the rules: the damage is limited, said the Undersecretary Crimes, because we are talking only about the houses affected, damaged or destroyed by the earthquake. Do you realize that maybe those have just collapsed because they were abusive, because they realized where they did not have to be realized, without complying with the regulations? You also assume a serious responsibility from the criminal point of view because if that abuse was also the cause of what happened you are making yourself responsible for a very serious fact. What should we hope for? Should we hope or should others hope that another earthquake, another natural calamity, will come in order to make the houses sanitized and thus be able to take advantage of the forgiveness? Do you realize the aberration that is taking place? That is why I say to you: at least this amendment reduces the damage. Think again because this is an opportunity to reduce at least the seriousness of the scope of Article 25. Colleagues, I tell you: Article 25 cannot be forgiven. Perhaps for a few votes there in Ischia, for some reason, you are also undermining the reasons why the 5 Stars had made the legality and also the battles for the environment a flag, one of their founding elements and identity. You are betraying all this; other than the betrayal of voters by those who voted on this amendment yesterday. You did the betrayal to the end. That's why I'm telling you: Stop. At least on this front reduce the damage. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU and PD Groups and Senator De Falco.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u273	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 25.10 tabled by Senator De Falco, identical to Amendment 25.12 tabled by the Commissions. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 25.11 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 25.13, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "law provisions." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 25.14 are therefore excluded. Amendment 25.15 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.16 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.17, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 25.18 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment No 25,200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u274	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u275	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u276	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, Amendments Nos 25,200, 25,20 and 25,201 arise from the need to clarify that the 5 Star Movement has never intended and does not intend today to give rise to a new building pardon, but in my opinion it is essential to clarify what happens if the procedures for examining requests for pardon do not end in the six months envisaged. If nothing should happen, we do not understand the meaning of the legislation; however, much more plausible is the hypothesis that, at least when applied, we will tend to apply the principle of silence-acceptance and in this case this would be a gigantic pardon, given that these practices have been lying for years, a pardon to insular. The solution, therefore, is to predict that, after six months without reply, all applications will be rejected. That is to say, it must be made clear that refusal is worth the silence. In this respect, the further proposal is to extend this point to all the municipalities of Italy. By doing so in six months we will have a definitive map of the abusive properties in Italy and we will be able to give concrete course to the planning of the extraordinary plan of demolitions about which Minister Costa has spoken. For these reasons, I would ask that the amendments signed by me be accepted, so that in six months' time we can finally free Italy from building abuse. [[Applause from Senator Balboni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u277	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u278	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u279	CRIMI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Mr President, as far as possible, I always try to do a clarification exercise on certain issues. I would therefore like to point out that Article 32 of the 1985 Law of Reference, as amended by Law 326 of 2003, provides that the issue of the building title in sanatorium for works carried out on buildings subject to constraint, is subject to the favourable opinion of the administrations responsible for the protection of the bond. If such an opinion is not delivered by those administrations within one hundred and eighty days of the date of receipt of the request for an opinion, the applicant may challenge the silence-refusal. That's how it is. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u280	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u281	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u282	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, we are embarrassed by these statements and the amendment we are debating, because it means acknowledging that we are talking about forgiveness and that we want to extend it to all of Italy. The 5 Stars go from saying that this is not a pardon to the defense of Ischia's pardon, even to bringing all the pardon to a national level. We're outcasts. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u283	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 25,200, tabled by Senator Ciampolillo, up to the words "common of Italy." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 25.20 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.22, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 25.21 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.23 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.24, tabled by Senator Papatheu. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 25.201.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u284	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u285	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u286	MARTELLI (Mixed). Mr President, I rise in an explanation of vote on this amendment to help the Government complete the word 'truth', having stopped at'ver' or'veri'. First of all, I would propose to use the term "building peace," so we no longer use the word "condoning" and we are all satisfied. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Having said that, Article 25 reminds me so much of the film "Back to the future" by Zemeckis: we have created the time machine that clears all the legislation on condons and brings it back to 1985. It remains to be clarified who Doc is, that is, who gave birth to this idea. The problem is that you make a condon, that you had to be tombalous, and then you put the bonds. They say, "Okay, we're gonna fix you, but then we're gonna close it there." In fact, only six months later the so-called Galasso law was adopted and - then - the ministerial decree of 9 February 1999 introduced the absolute bond for the whole island of Ischia (the document is cited within a resolution of Ischia of 17 April and, therefore, exists). What's going on? I made you pardon, who gave gave and who had had. Then that's it. There's absolutely nothing going on from here. Leaving the etiquette of a pardon to which I would like to have a secular approach for a moment, the concept is that if a citizen has not had an answer in terms of the administrative process, he can bring an appeal. In Italy it is full of practices that have been dragging on for years and years; I personally know a body governed by public law that has been waiting for an opinion since 1985. Maybe, then we should give all these people an answer too. In any case, returning to the question I mentioned earlier - I am referring to the secular approach - when I make the time machine I say: Galasso legislation does not exist, the gate, because I return to first. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Why not? Yes, I cancel the legislation of 1999 that puts on the whole island the landscape bond, because I apply Article 33 of the Law of 28 February 1985, n. 47. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This law establishes a whole series of constraints of absolute inediability. Yes, but they are related to that moment, not to a later one that has been disciplined differently; then, it really is a time machine. The question is, therefore, why is all this done? As has rightly been said, silence-dissence was subsequently introduced for certain reasons, so much so that it was not explicitly included in this article. Silence-dissence should, however, be inserted. There is much to be said about the static and structural adequacy of buildings that have been built illegally. Where is the specification? What about the diameter of the rod? The amount of rods? The distance of the pilasters? The thickness of the insole? I know about people who did these things (and I said I didn't want to hear them, because I'm a public officer). I was told: I did this thing on my own, I put a column there and there, then I pulled a little face. So I asked, "Did you do two math?" Answer: "No, it seemed to me that it could go, we leaned on that wall." All applications submitted become potentially condonable. It is said: "Yes, but some verification must be done." However, it is not a verification that allows to ascertain the respect of all the regulations, unless we do the x-rays of the pillars, as is done in the nuclear power plants, to see if the rods are there and to analyze the sampling of the pillars to see the amount of aggregation and binder. Since this control will presumably not be done, we will find ourselves with houses that - we cross our fingers - at the next earthquake of magnitude 3.5 (which would just drop the saucer from the shelf) could come down. Let's not talk about the uplifts. The addition of a plan could fall within the 20% limit. Maybe it's the top floor: we made a nice concrete insole and pulled some concrete current, instead of wood, as well as created an overweight that maybe holds statically as long as it's all still, but then at the slightest shock all the structure collapses due to collapse and crumbling of the masonry. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Do we really want to do this? I would say that we should put a hand on our conscience and prevent any further deaths. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u287	I also inform you that the Mixed Group has finished the time available. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.201, tabled by Senator Ciampolillo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.26 tabled by Senator Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 25.27, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators, up to the word "provvede". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 25.28 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.29 tabled by Senator Papatheu. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.30, tabled by Senator De Siano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.31, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 25.32, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 25.32 tabled by Senator Papatheu. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G25,100 and G25,102 will not be put to the vote. I would ask those present whether they insist on voting on the G25.101 agenda. NUGNES (M5S). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.0.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 26 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u288	Mr President, I am against the amendments to Rule 26.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u289	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u290	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 26.1, tabled by Senator De Siano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 26.2 tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We proceed to the examination of the agenda referred to Article 30 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be illustrated, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u291	Mr. President, I'm going back to the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u292	Mr President, I am in favour of the following rewording:
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u293	Senator Ruspandini, do you accept the reformulation? Ruspandini (FdI). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G30.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 32 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u294	Mr President, I am against Amendment 32.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u295	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u296	Let us turn to Amendment 32.1 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 32.1 tabled by Senator De Siano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendment to Article 34 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u297	Mr President, I am against Amendment 34.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u298	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u299	Let us move on to Amendment 34.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 34.1 tabled by Senator De Siano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 35 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u300	Mr President, I am against Amendment 35.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u301	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u302	Let us move on to Amendment 35.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 35.1, tabled by Senator De Siano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 37 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u303	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Rule 37. On agendas G37.108, G37.119, G37.120, G37.121, G37.123, G37.124, G37.125, G37.126 and G37.128 I refer to the opinion of the representative of the Government. On the other agendas, I am in favour. I am against all the additional amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u304	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. As regards the agenda G37.108, the opinion is in favour of this type of rewording: first of all, the words: "to consider whether it would be appropriate"; then the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth paragraphs of the operative part, i.e. the part from the paragraph which reads as follows: (a) to provide for the transfer of assistance to companies in house providing for the activities carried out by the Special Offices for Reconstruction; (b) to provide for the transfer of assistance to companies in house providing for the activities carried out by the Special Offices for Reconstruction; (c) to provide for the transfer of assistance to companies in house providing. In addition, the paragraph which reads: 'to provide for additional economic compensation measures (...), and the penultimate paragraph, which reads: 'to provide for measures in favour of the administrators of the municipalities affected by the earthquake; 'to provide for measures in favour of the administrators of the municipalities affected by the earthquake'; The rest remains unchanged. For the agenda G37.119, I propose to remove the words: "the possibility of including the words" and, in the end, to delete the period from the words: "to be predicted" until "2019". As far as the agenda is concerned, Mr G37.120, I would ask you to remove the first period of the device from the words: 'to deliberate', 'to pre-condition', and then to insert, after the words: 'to assess the appropriateness of establishing, in the next budget law, the words: 'to the first useful measure', 'to the next budget law'. For the agenda G37.121, I propose that the following words be given to the device: The same applies to agendas G37.123, G37.124 and G37.125. On the agenda, Mr G37.126, I propose that at the end of the line we remove the period from the words: 'to start' until: 'to start'. As far as the agenda is concerned, G37.128, we propose that the following words be replaced:
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u305	Let us move on to Amendment 37.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 37.1, tabled by Senators Biasotti and Mallegni, until December 31. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 37.2 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 37.3, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators, up to the words "1- bis". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 37.4. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment No 37.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 37.6 tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators, up to the words "Article 3". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 37.7 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 37.8, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 37.9, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 37.10 tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 37.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 37.11, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 37.12, which is identical to Amendment 37.13, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 37.12 tabled by Senators Biasotti and Mallegni, identical to Amendment 37.13, tabled by Senator Urso and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 37.14, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 37.14, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 37.18, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 37.18, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators, until the words "50- bis" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 37.15, 37.16 and 37.17 are therefore not included. Let us turn to Amendment No 37.19, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 37.19, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 37.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 37.5, tabled by Senator Marsilio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G37.100, G37.101, G37.102, G37.103, G37.104, G37.105, G37.107 and G37.106 will not be put to the vote. Senator Ferrazzi, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G37.108? Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, agendas G37.108 (text 2), G37.109, G37.110, G37.111, G37.112, G37.113, G37.114, G37.115, G37.116, G37.117 and G37.118 will not be put to the vote. Senator Margiotta, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G37.119? MARGIOTTA (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G37.119 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator Ferro, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G37.120? IRON (FI-BP). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G37.120 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator Margiotta, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G37.121? MARGIOTTA (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G37.121 (text 2) and G37.122 will not be put to the vote. Senator Margiotta, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G37.123 and G37.124? MARGIOTTA (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G37.123 (text 2) and G37.124 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator Ruspandini, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G37.125? Ruspandini (FdI). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G37.125 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator Floris, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G37.126? FLORIS (FI-BP). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G37.126 (text 2) and G37.127 will not be put to the vote. Senator Margiotta, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G37.128? MARGIOTTA (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G37.128 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Let us move on to Amendment 37.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 37.0.1, tabled by Senator Verducci and other senators, up to the words "40 per cent." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 37.0.02 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 37.0.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 37.0.3 tabled by Senator Ruspandini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 37.0.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 37.0.4, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 38 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u306	Mr President, I am against Amendment 38.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u307	Mr President, I am against Amendment 38.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u308	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 38.1, tabled by Senator Ruspandini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 39 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u309	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Rule 39.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u310	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u311	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 39.1, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 39.2 tabled by Senator Pagano. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Verducci and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 39.0.1, tabled by Senator Verducci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 34.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 34.0.2 tabled by Senator Verducci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 34.0.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 34.0.3 tabled by Senator Verducci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 34.0.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 34.0.4 tabled by Senator Verducci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 39.0.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 34.0.5, tabled by Senator Verducci and other senators, up to the words 'citizens and undertakings'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 39.0.6 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment No 39.0.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 39.0.7 tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 39.0.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 39.0.8 tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 39.0.9 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 39.0.9 tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 30.0.10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 30.0.10, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators, up to the words "In order to do so." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 39.0.14 and 39.0.16 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 34.0.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 34.0.11, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators, until the words "6 April 2009." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Therefore, the remainder and amendments 39.0.200 and 39.0.12. are not included. Let us move on to Amendment 30.0.13, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 30.0.13 tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 30.0.15, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 30.0.15, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 34.0.17, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 34.0.17, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators, up to the words 'n'. Eight-thirty-eight-thirty-eight-thirty-eight-thirty-eight-thirty-thirty-eight-thirty-thirty-eight-thirty-eight-thirty-thirty-eight-thirty-eight-thirty-thirty-eight-thirty-thirty-eight-thirty-eight-thirty-eight-thirty-eight-thirty-eight-thirty-thirty-eight-thirty-eight-thirty-eight-thirty. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 39.0.18 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 39.0.19, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Amendment 39.0.19, tabled by Senator Verducci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 30.0.20, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 39.0.21, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 30.0.21, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 39-b of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u312	Mr President, I am against all the amendments tabled to Rule 39-b.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u313	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u314	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 39-b.1, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators, identical to amendment 39-b.2 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 39-b.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 39-b.3 tabled by Senator Papatheu. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 39-b.4 tabled by Senator Papatheu. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 39-b.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 39-b.0.1, tabled by Senator Toffanin, until the words "May 2012" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 39-b.2. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 39-b.0.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 39-b.0.3 tabled by Senators Biasotti and Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 39-b.0.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 39-b.0.4 tabled by Senator Pagano. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 39-b.0.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 39-b.0.5, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 39-b.0.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 39-b.0.12, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators, until the words "The predictions of "the". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 39-b.0.200 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 39-b.0.13, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by means of a simultaneous vote on Amendment 39 - ter.0.13 tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 39-b.0.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 39 - ter.0.6 tabled by Senator Pagano. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 39-b.0.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 39-b.0.7, tabled by Senator Pagano, until the words " 2019 and 2020 years." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 39-b.0.16 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to amendment 39-b.0.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 39-b.0.8 tabled by Senators Biasotti and Mallegni, until the words "31 December 2020." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 39-b.09 are therefore excluded. We move on to Amendment 39-b.0.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 39-b.0.11 tabled by Senators Biasotti and Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 39-b.0.14, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 39-b.0.14, tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 39-b.19, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 39-b.19, tabled by Senator Collina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 39-b.0.15, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 39-b.0.15, tabled by Senator Collina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 39 - ter.0.17, tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 39-b.0.18, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 39-ter.0.18, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Articles 040, 40 and 40-a of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u315	Mr President, I am opposed to all the amendments tabled to these articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u316	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u317	Let us move on to amendment 040.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u318	I would ask for the vote and I would like to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u319	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u320	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, I will be very quick in my speech. This amendment goes to finance the National Emergency Fund, because if we have to talk about emergencies today, it is not a question of pardons, but of money for citizens, for businesses and for the territory that has been devastated in recent weeks, from Trentino-Alto Adige to Sicily. We therefore propose to allocate EUR 500 million in 2018 and EUR 500 million in 2019. Mr President, I would also like to ask you to report to Mr Salvini that what has happened has nothing to do with living room environmentalism. Indeed, it is the opposite, because when the European Parliament was called upon to ratify the Paris Climate Agreement two years ago, there were 610 votes in favour and 38 votes against: these 38 votes against include the vote of the then MEP and today Vice-President Salvini and today Minister Fontana. If you go to talk to the old people of the Dolomites, they will tell you that they have never seen such an event, but who studies, who understands and who doesn't speak at all will explain that these events are linked to environmental change and climate change. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u321	I call on Senator Ferrazzi and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 040.1. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 40.1, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 40.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 40.2 tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 40.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 40.3 tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 40.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 40.4 tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 40.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 40.0.1, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 40-a.1 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 40- bis.0.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 40-a.0.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 40- bis.0.2, tabled by Senator Gallone, until the words "In order to do so." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 40-a.0.0, 40-a.0.4 and 40-a.0.6 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to amendment 40-a.0.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 40- bis.0.5, tabled by Senator Ferro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 40-a.0.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As a request has been made, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 40- bis.0.7, tabled by the Sudanese and Pharaoh senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 40-a.0.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As a request has been made, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 40- bis.0.8 tabled by the Sudanese and Pharaoh Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 40-a.0.9, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As a request has been made, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 40- bis.0.9, tabled by the Sudanese and Pharaoh senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 41 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain. Colleagues, if we contingent ourselves I make everyone speak, otherwise the times are still exhausted. So let us try to speak little and well.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u322	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u323	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u324	RICCIARDI (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. On Amendments 41.6 and 41.7 I ask, as I have already done in writing, not to consider among the signatories Senators Ricciardi, Romagnoli, Trentacoste, Angrisani, Agostinelli, Naturale, Marilotti, Grenato and Auddino. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u325	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u326	Mr President, I rise on the deletion of Rule 41.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u327	You have one minute, Senator, because your time is up.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u328	MARTELLI (Mixed). One minute is very little. Illustrating the deleterious amendment to Article 41 in one minute is difficult, but let us see what I can do. In my opinion, a subject such as this should not be included in a decree-law of this kind, simply because the legislation on these sludges has stratified, and badly, over time. The legislation provides, for example, that waste must not be mixed in order to dilute pollutants; however, the escamotage has been found to connect directly the production site with the purification site and, if there is continuity in the collection, it is not considered waste. In fact, therefore, the law is bypassed, leading to the purifier the industrial discharge, mixing it with the civil discharge and then doing a purification. The minimum 30% - according to ISPRA - of sludge discharges comes from the purification of industrial debris. This is how it explains the presence of heavy metals, carcinogenic substances, mineral oils, heavy hydrocarbons, aromatic hydrocarbons, dioxins, furans and what you want. To take, even for a moment, into consideration the fact that this stuff can be spread over the fields, with scattering limits that are, in some cases, higher than the landfilling of special hazardous waste, in my opinion, is madness. Even having included some limitation parameters in the table may not be objectively sensible. I contacted a lab technician who confirmed that, for example, the 20 milligrams for arsenic are absurd, because the insubric soils and those of the Roman agro contain more than 20 milligrams on the dry by nature. It is the background noise of these substances. It is clear then that this provision, which could have been quite a number to say that the matter had finally been regulated, will certainly need to be reviewed in addition to not being reassuring. That is the first point. The other observation is that the inclusion in the table, albeit with low levels, carcinogenic and persistent pollutants such as dioxins and furans is suicide, because the only table legislation setting limits does not make sense: some substances must be put at zero limit. The operation that should be done is not only regulatory review, but plant revision, because it must be understood once and for all whether the accumulation of heavy metals in the ground, and therefore in a layer, or not, is tolerable. We do not complain if we find in drinking water parameters such as arsenic, chromium and all these things. Where do we think they came from? They come from the percolation of scattered sludge. Well had the Lombardy Region, which has the competence on waste (because the competence on waste is regional), to set a limit on mineral oils to 50 and has done, further, to ban in 170 municipalities the shedding, because one must give priority to the zootechnical mud, which is free of heavy metals. Those who come to tell us that those substances are civil mud, I want to see it with the grater scratching some stainless steel to get some chromium out inside the effluent. Let's do a good operation: this decree-law expires on November 28 next, so there is plenty of time to send it to the House and delete Article 41. [[Applause from Senator Pharaoh.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u329	Mr President, Article 41, which increases by twenty times the amount of hydrocarbons allowed in sewage sludge to be spread on agricultural land, has been incorporated into the so-called Genoa Decree-Law. As allowed values... (Brussio). I would at least ask my group to listen to me. [[Call the president back.]] The permitted values for hydrocarbons with carbon chains between C10 and C40 were raised from 50 milligrams per kilogram (with their mercury, nickel, lead, copper and zinc values) to 1,000 milligrams per kilogram, resulting in a twenty-fold increase in mercury, nickel, lead, copper and zinc values. The main problem with these hydrocarbons is their ecotoxic potential and the inherent difficulty in defining long-term toxicity. At this point, just think of the presence of the PFAS in the Province of Vicenza, which tells you everything. Their presence does not exclude contamination of other pollutants that are declared carcinogenic and mutagenic with a high persistence, such as heavy metals, dioxin and PAH. The dilution of environmental pollutants on the ground is no different from that committed criminally in all marine and underground ecosystems. Now, with this article, we pollute by law. Furthermore, the toxicity of these pollutants worsens when they are metabolised and bioaccumulated in organisms along the food pyramid at whose top is inevitably man, understood as a common citizen. I now ask the Government and the Undersecretary to know where this emergency is and where these sludges are stacked, Mr. Undersecretary, which I also see distracted with respect to my questioning. Undersecretary Crimes? I'll talk to her. She could listen to me. My appeal is to the government, to know where these muds are stacked and where they have to go, because being a representative of the South, I worry that then, maybe, we see these muds reach the South. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Since you have accepted an agenda in the House, I think the PD, to review it all later, I would invite you to make a stop and go, going to reason on this issue so sensitive and so problematic, so as to do something really serious, but that is not a decree. I feel offended. In Genoa I have my family and my grandchildren, so I would have voted the so-called decree Genoa with all my heart, to help a city in suffering. Unfortunately, I have to abstain, because I cannot vote for these things. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u330	Mr President, this article is the other nefariousness, the other shame hidden from the tragedy of Genoa. Article 41 deals with sludge from sewage treatment plants: sewage treatment plants - and I quote - of waste water coming exclusively from civil settlements or from civil and productive settlements or even exclusively from productive settlements; therefore, waste water from industries as well. It is not true, Mr. Undersecretary Crimes, that you have gone to clean up an unresolved issue that has not been settled for years. With this article you do nothing but refer to Legislative Decree No. 99 of 1992, with a small exception. You know what the exception is? And the hydrocarbon content in the sludge in question. And I don't think the problem is civil. Why do you make the exception for hydrocarbons? Why do you think you can raise the thresholds for the presence of such substances in the sludge that goes on our soil, where products that then go on the tables of our children, of all of us? We asked that at least this presence should be limited to non-food crops, but you did not want to accept this either. In the House, then, you made the provision worse. You have also made exceptions for chromium, arsenic, selenium, toluene. Why do you need to ensure that these harmful substances can be more present in the sludge? That is why - and I conclude - we not only insist on the abolition of this shameful article, but we will also vote on the other amendments tabled by Mr De Bonis from my region. It is certain, and I repeat of my Region, because increasing the threshold of hydrocarbons in sludge means ruining, above all, the health and health of the people living in the regions where oil extraction is made. Yet, only in the last parliamentary term did you paint your hands. You didn't let us vote. From that desk we could not access the Italy unlock because you said we were poisoning. You're poisoning with this article. You've already sold everything out. You have gone from being environmentalists - as she said before - to accepting the hydrocarbons, chromium and arsenic of sewage sludge. We're really crazy! And then you allow yourself to call serious, autonomous and free colleagues traitors, who do nothing but keep saying the things you said five years ago! [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] Who's a traitor? Are they traitors to them or are you traitors to what you have said, proclaimed and insisted on and insulted us for five years? Think about it, because at some point you are going to fight against the truth, against freedom and against the autonomy of people. Sooner or later, it's gonna crash. And we're waiting for you, because you're gonna bang. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u331	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u332	Senator Mallegni, what do you want to intervene on? I would remind you that a member of your Group has already spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u333	MALLEGNI (FI-BP). Mr President, I can be seen as a pre-announcement of dissenting votes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u334	Senator Mallegni, I take note of this and give you the floor for a minute. Colleagues, I shall end the speeches on Rule 41, after which we shall proceed to the vote. My hope, in fact, is to conclude the vote on the amendments in today's sitting and then, on tomorrow's day, to proceed with explanations of vote and the final vote, of course including Senator De Petris, who requested them. This, however, must be done without disposals, because I do not authorize any transfer of time from Group to Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u335	Mr President, I welcome the concerns that have emerged in the debate and I also note the need for a review of the whole rule which concerns the question of sewage sludge. Dear friends, however, we cannot pretend anything, because we live in a real life, that of every day, where eight thousand Italian municipalities have the purification plants and since always, until the entry into force of a sentence of the Lombardy Tar, have distributed the sludge in agriculture, with a whole series of limits and precise questions that did not go in the direction of being against the health of the citizen. No, it's not. It has taken - I believe - the opportunity to include in the decree-law of emergencies also this which is a real emergency every day.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u336	Conclude, please. I haven't figured out what you're voting for yet.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u337	MALLEGNI (FI-BP). Before I heard them ask where the sludge is stored: the sludge is stored inside the purification plants, because the Italian norm provides it, and the purification plants are located in our cities: those who live near them can no longer live and breathe [[Applause from Senator Leonardo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u338	You have to finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u339	MALLEGNI (FI-BP). Mr President, my vote will be against the amendment tabled by Mr Lonardo, because I believe it is essential that Article 41 be adopted as proposed. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u340	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u341	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u342	TIRABOCHI (FI-BP). Mr President, I rise to announce my abstention vote. I depart from the final reply of the Undersecretary Crimes, according to which Article 41 has set a limit to the shedding of sludge; that limit that had been established by a judge by the judgment of the Lombardy TAR. I would have expected the Government to be more incisive about the transitional nature of this rule, which - as we know - handles an emergency. Behind the subject of sludge we know there are problems of environmental protection, health protection, but also problems of economic sustainability, those to which Mr Mallegni referred. I mean, then... president. Senator Tiraboschi, either make an explanation of vote in one minute or you cannot open a debate. TIRABOCHI (FI-BP). We take inspiration from what emerged from the green economy conference in Rimini, which says that water purification can produce sludge from which phosphorus can be extracted, which is an extremely important substance in agriculture, and we know that in the next ten years it could run out. I invite you, Undersecretary, to see what other countries, such as Switzerland and Germany, have already done about this.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u343	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u344	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u345	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I too would like to announce that we will be voting in favour of the deleterious amendments and I shall explain that. With the parameters indicated, industrial sludge could not be delivered into special landfills either; nor could it be used for environmental recovery. Instead, we allow them to go to the fields where the food we eat is grown. We're having a very serious operation. We vote no in coherence. In fact, I would like to remind the Senators of the Movimento 5 Stars that it was they who made the appeals to the TAR against the measure of the Lombardy Region. Today, once again, they change their minds. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u346	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u347	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u348	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, I would simply like to make one point. When I made the explanation of vote in relation to the amendments to Article 25, having tabled three for my signature, on 25.22 I voted in favour because I thought it was mine, but the vote is against.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u349	The Presidency takes note of this. The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u350	Mr President, I am against all the amendments, including additional ones, referred to in Rule 41. As far as the agenda is concerned, I am in favour of the agenda G41.100, G41.103 and G41.107; the opinion is against the agenda G41.101 and G41.102. On agendas G41.104, G41.105, G41.106 and G41.108 there is a request for reformulation from the Government, to which I refer.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u351	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. On the agenda, Mr G41.104, I propose that the following words should be expunged: (i) measured on the dry matter; (ii) measured on the dry matter; (iii) expressed on the dry matter; (iv) expressed on the dry matter; (iv) expressed on the dry matter; (v) expressed on the dry matter; (vi) On the agenda G41.105, on the second commitment, we propose to expunge the phrase from the words: "I am not" until the word: "Application". The G41.106 agenda is the same as the previous one and, therefore, the same considerations apply. On the agenda, Mr G41.108, we propose that the following words should be given to the device:
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u352	Agendas G41.105 and G41.106 are not exactly the same.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u353	CRIMI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. They are not identical as regards some prepositions, for the premise, but for the rest the commitments are essentially identical. Therefore, the same modification is valid, that is, on the second commitment we propose to stop at the words: "gessis of defecation" and to maintain the third and fourth commitment.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u354	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 41.2 tabled by Senator Renzi and other Senators, identical to Amendments 41.3 tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, 41.4 tabled by Senator Martelli, 41.5 tabled by Senator Leonardo and other Senators, and 41.6 tabled by Senator De Bonis and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 41.7 tabled by Senator De Bonis and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 41.8, tabled by Senator Lorefice and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 41.9 tabled by Senator De Bonis and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 41.10 tabled by Senator Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 41.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 41.11, tabled by Senator De Bonis and other senators, up to the words 'by means of the following: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 41.12. are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 41.13 tabled by Senator Lorefice. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 41.14, tabled by Senator De Bonis and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 41.15, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 41.16, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 41.17, tabled by Senator Lorefice. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 41.18 is inadmissible. Having been accepted by the Government, the G41.100 agenda will not be put to the vote. Senator De Bonis, do you insist on voting on the agenda G41.101? DE BONIS (M5S). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Nugnes, do you insist on voting on the agenda G41.102? NUGNES (M5S). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the G41.103 agenda will not be put to the vote. Senator Lorefice, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G41.104? LOREFICE (M5S). No, Mr President, and I insist on voting on the agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G41.104, tabled by Senator Lorefice. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator D'Arienzo, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G41.105 and G41.106? D'ARIENZO (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G41.105 (text 2), G41.106 (text 2) and G41.107 will not be put to the vote. Senator Margiotta, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G41.108? MARGIOTTA (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G41.108 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 41.0.1, tabled by Senator Nastri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 41.0.2, tabled by Senator Gallone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments referred to Articles 42 and 42-a of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u355	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u356	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u357	We move on to Amendment 42.0.1, which is identical to Amendment 42.0.200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 42.0.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to Amendment 42.0.200, tabled by Senator Gallone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 42-a.0.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 42- bis.0.2, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments referred to Articles 43 and 43-a of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u358	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u359	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u360	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 43.2 tabled by Senator De Bonis. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 43-a.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 43- bis.1, tabled by Senator Biasotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments referred to Articles 44 and 44-b of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u361	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u362	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u363	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 44.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 44.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 44.2 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 44.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 44.3 tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 44.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 44.4 tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 44.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 44.5, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 44-b.1, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We have thus concluded the examination of the amendments and agendas. [[Applause.]] I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law. Since we have been late, the end-of-session speeches are postponed until tomorrow's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u364	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-58.ana.u365	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 15 November, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.17 p.m.
