ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-6.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.05 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 17 April. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-6.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-6.ana.u3	The next item is: Communication, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, of the submission of a bill for the conversion of decree-laws. On 27 April 2018, the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister for Economic Development: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 38 of 27 April 2018 on urgent measures to ensure the completion of the procedure for the disposal of the business complexes under Alitalia S.p.A." (297).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-6.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-6.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-6.ana.u6	DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Rule 122 of the Constitution states that no one can belong at the same time to a Council or a Regional Council and to one of the Houses of Parliament, to another Council or to another Regional Council, or to the European Parliament. Well, for two months now the dictation of the Constitutional Charter and the Constitution itself have been trampled in this House by the presence on the benches of the Democratic Party of the President of a Regional Council, the President of the Abruzzo Region Luciano D'Alfonso. To this tangible and obvious incompatibility, which certainly does not need to be verified by the parliamentary bodies, President D'Alfonso resists continuing to occupy the two positions with serious damage to the normal activity of the Abruzzo Region. A situation that has caused the protests of the various council groups and that continues to interest local press and national press, as well as satirical columns urged by the paradoxical situations that this incompatibility continues to provoke. D'Alfonso's double armchair reported, for example, one of these publications has a harmful effect on the work of the Regional Council. Two weeks ago, in order to say, the Governor, taking the floor on the Council, asked to warn his colleagues that he would not be able to attend for the duration of his work because he had to go to Rome in the Senate: "With transparency, I represent you that I must leave, not because my wife asks me but to go to Palazzo Madama," said the incompatible Governor. "Result?" Explains the article: "With the absence of D'Alfonso there was no quorum and the sitting was postponed." This is happening: the work of a Regional Council is blocked by the ambitions of a politician. And all this in a region that of the full activity of its organs needs to face all the emergencies that attack it, from the occupational and environmental one to the seismic one that see it, still today, with about 80 percent of the schools without the necessary security requirements on the anti-seismic front. Nevertheless, D'Alfonso insists on maintaining his double armchair: "Leave the direction of the Region?" he said, challenging common sense "I must first determine the inveramento of the conditions to become senator." Needless to point out that the proclamation of the senators has taken place for a long time and there is certainly no need for an eventual investigation of the Junta of the elections still to be constituted in order to acclaim the incompatibility of the President of the Abruzzo Region, incompatibility - I repeat - sanctioned by the Constitution itself. But there is another serious fact that I intend to point out and that well documents the institutional degradation that the double armchair of Governor D'Alfonso is causing: also the Abruzzo Region is called, through its organs, to intervene and sanction the incompatibility of its President. It is no coincidence that on 6 April, your election committee was called upon to give its opinion. Well, with a behavior dictated by pure logic of political convenience, the majority of the Junta, the same one that supports the governor D'Alfonso, has decided that there are no causes of incompatibility between the office of senator and that of President of the Abruzzo Region. This is the situation that has arisen in our Region and that we ask to heal by inviting Governor D'Alfonso to remove his incompatibility. We also ask the bodies of your party and of your parliamentary group to do so in this House. It would be a gesture of common sense that would restore dignity and decorum to politics and to the citizens of Abruzzo the right to that good government that only could allow to start to solve the dramatic problems that in many cases make their existence invisible. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-6.ana.u7	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. The Senate is summoned to the house. The sitting was closed at 11.12 a.m.
