ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. Question 3 00056 on the new restrictive provisions for public order at the events will be put to the first place. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u4	Mr President, Senators, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the issue of safety related to the conduct of public events and public entertainment events and to the repercussions which, as a result of the increase in the recent constraints on the subject, could result in the organisation of events or events of a smaller scale and having an exclusively local impact. In this regard, I inform you that the issue has been the subject of a very recent review of the criteria contained in the previous circulars last year, through the emanation by the Ministry of the Interior of the directive of 18 July last, addressed to the prefects, with which new organisational and procedural models have been developed to ensure high levels of safety at public events. The aim of the new directive was to incorporate into a unified framework the previous guidelines in order to meet, on the one hand, the need to guarantee the appropriate safety and safety standards of the participants, on the other hand, the respect for the historical-cultural traditions and the economic-social heritage of the local communities, recognising a central role for the municipal administration. The new operational indications intend, in fact, to ensure a flexible approach to risk management, parametering the security measures in relation to the "vulnerability" related to each event, with the aim of making the requirements more compliant with the peculiarities of the territory, thus overcoming the critical application of the previous directives. The new Directive of 18 July 2018 therefore moves in the spirit of flexibility. Without prejudice to the hypotheses in which it is the mayor to issue the authorization to carry out the event, in fact, in the document it is established that it is the mayors or the presidents of the supervisory commissions to have to inform the prefectures about the specific conditions of criticality related to the typology of the event, the conformation of the place, the number and the characteristics of the participants. Contrary to the approach that characterized the previous ministerial discipline, today replaced, therefore, the discretion of the mayors in the assessment of the potential vulnerabilities related to each event increases. Only as a result of such an alert from the mayor or the chairman of the Supervisory Commission and acquired the documentation produced by the organizer, will it be up to the prefectures - if they find that it is really necessary - to submit the subject to the examination of the provincial committee for public order and security, extended to the participation of the provincial commander of firemen, in order to analyze in that place the security and safety devices, possibly modifying or implementing the measures provided for by the organizer, if this is necessary in order to optimize the effectiveness of the general safety device. Moreover, to confirm the need not to compromise the conduct of events that in the life of some communities are factors of identity and attractiveness also economic of the territory, I would like to point out, finally, that in the new directive of the Ministry the prefects have been charged to carry out for the circumstance - with the involvement of the police forces, the fire department and the other institutions and associative realities concerned - every more prudent evaluation, in order to modulate and calibrate adequately the requirements in this matter, in order to make them more in response to the peculiarities of the territory and the events programmed in the local.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u7	Patriarca (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Molteni. I have read and understood the July directive this year: I expected more. Mr. Undersecretary, listen to me, because the subject is dear to all of us. The question was intended precisely, as you said, to avoid that, not only in Emilia-Romagna, as we write in the question, but also throughout the national territory, our territorial communities, the pro-local communities, the associations, on thousands and thousands of events involving our community, would be subjected, as happened - alas - following the Gabrielli directive, to costs and commitments really exaggerated, so much so as to prevent the same demonstration, with expenses also charged to volunteering. We have understood and experienced this situation and in the question we have collected the demands that come from the territory. Let me just say to you that, once again, it seems to me a loophole, an escape from responsibility. I expected a directive that would not de facto, as it says, entrust the commitment, management and decision of the criteria to the mayors. You know, Mr Undersecretary, that mayors are often involved and are called upon to bear a greater responsibility than is theirs. The solution adopted seems, once again, to me to be a way out of the way of not seriously tackling the problem, in order to avoid issuing a directive that would offer criteria that would give security and certainty both to the world of the third sector, of volunteering and pro-Location, and, above all, to the mayors who, once again, are called to a responsibility without having the tools and the possibility of acting with serenity. The mayors often take on many responsibilities and are called upon to render them improperly aware of them, by improper actions by judicial bodies. I would insist and ask the Government to consider whether it would be possible to act with a directive that would give the mayors a little more certainty and finally allow the world of volunteering, pro- and parishes to organize events without too many complications, but with certain clear indicators.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u8	Following is Question No 3 00144 on the spread of crime of Nigerian origin. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u9	Mr President, Senators, Nigerian criminal groups operating in Italy are characterized by ethnic-tribal fragmentations, subsidiaries of a vast criminal structure consisting of a few families, whose growth has been supported by the strategic support provided by a branched network of equivalent clans present both in Nigeria and in other European and non-European countries. The structure of these groups presents a summit with one or two heads of Nigerian nationality, who manage activity and relations with other groups at international level. The base, on the other hand, does not have a precise ethnic connotation. These partnerships, which maintain a substantial autonomy in relations with Italian organized crime, are equipped with a national network of contact points headed by cells of apparent folkloristic connotation, behind which there are fierce criminal associations that, with methods of intimidation, control and physical violence manage illegal activities. Recent investigative activities, carried out by the police forces, have confirmed how the consortries in question have assumed, in some cases, the conformation of real associations for criminals, using modus operandi typical of the autochthonous mafias. Special attention from investigators is reserved to the groups of the Eyes and Black Axes, as well as to the components born from their divisions, attributable to the Secret Cults, for years allocated in Italy and organized in hierarchically ordered structures. These groups have often been involved in violent oppositions, with the aim of expanding their illegal trafficking and asserting their supremacy. They maintain close contact with similar formations present in Italy and in several European States, as well as with apical figures settled in Nigeria, in order to coordinate, for the internal organization and criminal strategies to be implemented in their respective territories of influence. Nigerian criminal associations operate on a large part of the national territory, including regions where the control of endogenous crime is strong, such as Campania and Sicily. The criminal areas of action of these associations are international drug trafficking, aiding illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings aimed at the exploitation of prostitution and illegal work. Trafficking in human beings, aimed at the exploitation of prostitution, is managed by transnational organisations with links in African and European territory. The Nigerian girls, recruited in motherland with the promise of a job in Italy, are, in fact, reduced to slavery, also through magic-tribal rites. In addition, these organizations would often use the figure of the maman who, as emerged in various investigative activities, takes on the roles of recruiter, organizer, exploiter, head of operational units, point of connection between the different layers of the organization, cashier and investor of the proceeds of the illegal activities. The phenomenon is closely monitored by the police forces that, also in 2018, concluded several judicial police operations. In particular, in Palermo, Catania and in the province of Naples, between March and May of this year, several Nigerian citizens were arrested (in total 16) who were held responsible, in various ways, for the crimes of aiding and exploiting prostitution as well as for crimes of trafficking in human beings against young women their countrymen. Moreover, in July last, the mobile team of the State Police, assisted by personnel of the crime prevention department Umbria and Lazio, carried out, in Perugia, an order of protective custody in prison against seven Nigerians, subjecting to house arrest another Nigerian, considered responsible for aiding illegal immigration and exploitation of prostitution aggravated by transnationality. The results of the drug-trafficking activity carried out by the police force show that Nigerians are also very active in this field, in which women also carry out various tasks. It is established that Nigeria is a fundamental hub in the course of cocaine from South America to Europe, and that the investigative apparatuses of African countries are critical. This situation allows traffickers to create and manage free ports in Nigerian territory, also thanks to the complicity of compatriots who live in various countries of the world and offer suitable logistical support. For the most risky phase of transport, Nigerian groups prefer to avail themselves of subjects not strictly linked to the organization, using also people of other nationalities, employed as couriers "ovulators" in order to circumvent the customs controls. In the system of control of the distribution squares, Nigerians prefer independent management without mixing with other groups active in the same sector. On this side too, the law enforcement activity of the police forces is constant and particularly incisive: last June, in fact, the central operational service of the State Police, in collaboration with the local mobile team, carried out 28 arrests in Perugia delayed against a criminal group composed mainly of Nigerians. The operation, called "Pusher 3-Piazza Pulita," has disarticulated a trading square active in the Umbrian capital. In July, however, a similar operation led to the execution in Venice of a prison detention order against 25 Nigerians, who were held responsible, for various reasons, for association with criminals aimed at the trafficking and trafficking of drugs, money laundering and death as a consequence of another crime. With regard to crimes against property and public faith, the interest of Nigerian criminal organisations was continued mainly in the areas of counterfeit currency trafficking, cloning and improper use of electronic means of payment as well as e-mail and e-mail fraud. The huge proceeds obtained in illegal activities are subsequently sent to motherland, also through networks of collection and transfer of money, among which money transfer and hawala and, to a lesser extent, are the subject of money laundering, or are repatriated in our territory, mainly in companies that, by characteristic and distribution, are able to constitute points of aggregation for the compatriots and, therefore, useful instruments of control for the illicit traffics. In this regard, in August 2017, the Finance Guard conducted an important operation between the provinces of Milan, Bergamo, Brescia and Verona, denouncing, in a state of freedom, 9 Nigerians. The investigation has allowed a criminal organization, with solid ramifications in Nigeria, active in the collection of money from drug trafficking and the exploitation of prostitution, put back in motherland by couriers. During the operation, approximately 223,000 euros were seized in cash at the airports of Fiumicino, Linate and Malpensa. From the picture outlined, it is clear that the Forces of the Order maintain very high the level of attention to the Nigerian criminal phenomenon that, as highlighted, has peculiarities and characteristics of particular danger. The ability to control territories in which forms of autochthonous crime are already rooted, ethnic-tribal connotation, the hellishness of the criminal methods used, impose a strategy of contrast based on forms of collaboration and investigation activities also at the international level. In this direction, I would like to point out that the Department of Public Security has intensified its investigative cooperation with the Nigerian authorities on the control of immigration flows and the fight against the related phenomenon of trafficking in human beings. I assure you that the Government will continue to devote its utmost commitment to the strategy of combating such criminal partnerships, as is also evidenced by the results recorded in the period June-July 2018, which have seen an increase in the figure related to Nigerian citizens denounced and arrested for crimes of exploitation of prostitution and child pornography (plus 4%), as well as those related to drug trafficking and trafficking (plus 1.34 percent).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u12	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Molteni, but we cannot be satisfied. The Undersecretary has made a long list of the crimes committed by the Nigerian mafia, confirmed that there is a mafia organization very rooted and dangerous, dedicated to drug dealing, to the aiding of prostitution, to crimes of all kinds (he could not mention the murder of Pamela Mastropietro, but we know that in that case the Nigerian mafia also had a role) and listed us the excellent work carried out by our Forces of Order. Thank you, but we were wondering what the government intends to do to counter what is now a very dangerous phenomenon and the emerging mafia on our territory. Unfortunately, we continue to note a serious underestimation of the phenomenon of the Nigerian Mafia in Italy: we have seen it so far with previous governments, on the great media and by anti-Mafia professionals ready to denounce every criminal organization and talk about mafia in every context, in every part of the planet, except of Nigerian mafia: we therefore call on Roberto Saviano from this House to devote himself also to the Nigerian mafia, among the various things he does. We know why so far there has been omerta on the Nigerian mafia, of Nigerian nationality is the largest community of people who land on Italian territory and say that there is a connection between the illegal immigration of Nigerian mass and the Nigerian mafia risks creating a short circuit in those who support mass immigration in Italy. This is the reason why the left, Saviano, all anti-Mafia professionals have never faced the problem of the Nigerian mafia and it is the reason why instead Brothers of Italy has always done so. Today, however, we expected a change of pace that we do not see. It is said that three clues make a test and unfortunately, compared to the fact that the change of pace was not there with this new government, we already have them. On the occasion of the establishment of the Anti-Mafia Commission, Brothers of Italy asked with an amendment to clarify that this Commission should also deal with Nigerian mafia, since the phenomenon is emerging, but it was rejected by the left (this we imagined), but also by the Movimento 5 Stars and the League. On 25 July 2018, on the occasion of the hearing at the Joint Commissions, the Minister of the Interior Salvini in his Dicastery's communication on the programmatic lines did not mention the Nigerian Mafia; last - and this really surprised us - the decree-law on security and immigration does not mention the problem of the Nigerian Mafia. And then, if it is not mentioned in this provision, by what other measure exactly does the Government intend to address this issue? The invitation is therefore to continue with the praise to our Forces of Order, which have always fought all the criminal phenomena in our territory and including that of the Nigerian Mafia, but it is also to stimulate the Government to do something more. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u13	Following is the question 3-00230 on environmental pollution at the former Magnox plant of ITREC in Rotondella, in the province of Matera. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the questions raised, on the basis of the elements acquired, it is noted in advance that the ITREC, which is located within the research centre ENEA of the Trisaia, was built between 1965 and 1970 for research into the reprocessing and reprocessing of uranium fuel. In 1987 the activities were interrupted and continued with the maintenance of plant safety. In 2003 the Sogin took over from ENEA the management of the plant with the aim to realize the environmental reclamation and the dismantling of the site. In February 2017, following a complaint by a contractor that complained of anomalies and criticalities in the execution of the works entrusted by Sogin for the execution of the characterisation plan of the site in question, the penal proceedings n. 578 of 2017 were registered by the prosecutor of the Republic of Matera. As reported by the prefecture, the investigations carried out in this respect have found that the discharge pipe into the Ionian Sea of liquid effluents produced by the plant would not be authorised. In April 2018, all investigations were transmitted by jurisdiction to the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Potenza, who ordered the seizure of the criminal law. There are two pipelines under seizure: one in the ENEA area, in disuse, and one at the end of Sogin. In this regard, ISPRA has specified that the cited sequestration of the three tanks of the system of collection of the effluents of plant and the associated conduct of discharge to sea regards the presence of chemical contaminants, found in the water of groundwater, that is taken from the drainage wells of the ITREC plant and collected in the same tanks. Following the seizure, according to reports from the Ministry of Economic Development, Sogin has adopted all the actions allowed for the design and supply of a water treatment plant drained from the groundwater, which will ensure the elimination of pollutants through chemical-physical processes and has also created a new system of accumulation. With regard to the detection of conventional contamination at the site relating to the overcoming of contamination threshold concentrations (CSC), detected by Sogin during the monitoring required by the AIA, ISPRA has shown that the process of safety and clean-up initiated by Sogin and ENEA is under way. The services conference of 10 April 2018 approved the results of the risk analysis presented by Sogin itself, which identified as a likely primary source of contamination a source outside the scope of the company's activities. Following the findings at the conference of the services, ISPRA expressed the need for the site operator to prepare an emunte water treatment to remove contamination found in drained waters below the ITREC plant. In addition, the ARPA Basilicata carries out an independent environmental monitoring programme. These programs do not show the presence of radiometric anomalies. As part of its nuclear regulatory tasks, ISPRA carried out its nuclear safety and radiation protection audits and expressed its views on the effectiveness of the treatment system proposed by Sogin in May 2018. Following the investigation carried out, also on the basis of the results of the technical inspections carried out by the officials of the institute, it was considered that the treatment plant does not cause interference for the management in safety and meets the radiation protection requirements. In particular, the chemical-physical treatment for the removal of heavy metals and the filtration with activated carbons for the removal of organic compounds were considered suitable for the purposes of the abatement of pollutants present in the drinking water from the drainage wells in the ITREC plant and the proposed plant scheme was considered to be acceptable. As regards the alleged spilling of liquids from the ITREC plant into the Ionian Sea, the Ministry asked ISPRA to prepare as a matter of urgency an appropriate monitoring plan for the area affected by the spill to assess the extent and severity of the pollution. The same Ministry, in May 2018, requested from ISPRA a verification of the status of the sites and an assessment of the environmental damage in relation to the situation affecting the area of the aforementioned ITREC plant, where the contamination of water from chemicals has been reported. In this respect, the Institute has initiated contacts within the National Network System for Environmental Protection (SNPA) to acquire existing data and information at local level and subsequently verify the actions to be developed. The Ministry of the Environment is therefore monitoring the contamination situation and the threat of environmental damage to groundwater on an ongoing and vigilant basis. In this regard, the Minister recently represented to all interested parties the need and urgency for the Region Basilicata to proceed with the necessary investigations for the identification of the primary sources of contamination, for the ENEA to clean up the former Magnox industrial plant, for Sogin to continue, within the limits set by the judicial authority, in the activity of decommissioning of its plant and finally for the National System for the protection of the environment to start a campaign of monitoring of marine-costal waters, using specific biomarkers.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u17	PEPE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary, Mr Gava, for having given a timely and careful answer, which to the state can only satisfy me, especially for the final part and disposition, where, as they say, the names and surnames of those who must do what: the ISPRA, which must prepare as a matter of urgency a monitoring plan for the area affected by the spill, in order to assess the extent and gravity of the pollution; the Basilicata Region, which - I am told here too - has never shown itself, just as it should have, so sensitive to the issue; and then the ENEA, the Sogin and the SNPA. What do you need now, Mr. Undersecretary? There needs to be control over this important stimulus that you have given to these subjects, so that they can carry out these checks with the urgency that you have rightly pointed out. Where this does not happen, we need a push that this Ministry with your people can and can give, to finally do their duty. It is my task, in order to fulfil the moral duty that my role imposes me, to observe in this place what the Basilicata lives and, above all, what the area of Basilicata lives that is the object of this contamination. It lives on tourism, especially seaside tourism, it lives on agriculture and also lives on the environment. You will all understand that these three aspects, which are an important flywheel for the Lucana economy (and not only Lucana, I would say Italian), are at great risk where one should speak and verify, as alas happened in this case, environmental contamination. The seaside tour operators in the area suffered a sharp decrease in bookings in the summer just ended, just because this unpleasant event happened immediately before. Agriculture is directly affected by this activity, which does not have the control it deserves; the environment is a heritage that mother nature has given us and that cannot be called into question by any kind of entrepreneurial intention, by anyone who is stimulated and guided, least of all by these activities, which represent parking lots that are often maintained in areas like our land, that is, Basilicata. Among the various battles that we have to fight, there is unemployment, environmental protection and infrastructure, but there is also a mother battle, that of desertification, both environmental and human. Environmental, because we are the object of drilling to supply oil; but also human, because, alas, there being no infrastructure, there being no occupation and even being threatened by these risks, so many people go away and families no longer have children. Therefore, through this question, for whose answer, Mr Undersecretary, I renew a deep thank you that not only at a symbolic level, but also at that level, for these territories, for Basilicata and for many others such as Basilicata, a new course can be started that responds to the name of dignity, that allows them to no longer have to defend themselves from these threats, and to be able to question themselves with the resources and forces available to them. A new course that says "just" to the nuclear cemeteries of waste (and not only), because the Basilicata has already given and is no longer willing to receive or keep risky as it might be the case that we are dealing. A new course, Mr. Undersecretary, which responds to the name of truth and justice. All this so that the entrepreneur knows that he can calmly; the mother who sends the child to take a bath at sea knows that he is not risking anything and the farmer knows that he can invest in that sector. This is the truth and justice: where someone has wronged, he must pay, so that these shadows cannot and must no longer be concentrated on our communities. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u18	Question Time on the agenda is thus over. I suspend the session, which will resume at 3.15 p.m. with the question time. (The sitting was suspended at 10.05 a.m. and resumed at 3.16 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u19	The next item is the immediate questions (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Health, the Minister for Family Affairs and Disability and the Minister for the South will reply. Senator Errani has the right to explain the question 3-00229 on the increase in investment in the National Health Service, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u20	Mr President, Minister, the question is very simple, but it falls today that it is the day of the approval of the Additional Note to the DEF, a first step that - I hope - is finally true. The question is simple: what will be the financing of the National Health System in 2019 and three years? The question arises from the need to clarify and to give certainty to a system that is in great suffering. All the data speaks to us in a unique way - we are at the last places in EU-OECD funding; on the delivery of the LEAs there are deep inequalities, throughout the system, even in the most efficient regions, quality is difficult; on the staff, as you well know (and I also heard your statements), we are in the emergency; life expectancy is high but quality decreases significantly; private spending grows and we are now at 40 billion euros. The 2018 DEF brings us from 6.6 percent of GDP to 6.3 percent in the period 2019-2021. I hear about waste cuts. It is right that waste is and absolutely must be fought, but in order to avoid misunderstandings, I would like to know whether those savings, resulting from waste cuts, will be invested in health care or not. The investments in recent years are on the stakes. We have structures that not only are not anti-seismic, but are not even in compliance with Law No 626 of 1994, on fire-fighting systems and on the safety of electrical installations, in the face of a technological challenge of the highest level and of considerable significance. We certainly need a project to relaunch the health system, relaunching the original inspiration that forty years ago produced what I believe is the most important reform in the history of the Italian Republic. It is clear, however, that an additional EUR 1 billion will not be sufficient, already spent on the increased contractual burden and the updating of the essential levels of assistance. What, then, will be the investment of this Government for health care? [[Applause from Senator De Petris]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u21	The Minister for Health, Mr Grillo, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u22	Mr President, I start with a brief reflection: I believe that the reasons for the decreasing trend in the ratio of health expenditure to GDP are to be found in the development of GDP itself, which is expected to be significantly higher than in previous years, both in trend and policy terms, with an increase for the years 2018-2021 even higher than the values already discounted in the DEF for 2017. As regards the increase in the current level of funding of the National Health Service (NHS) to which the State contributes, the latter's increase is linked to the recent development of health expenditure. In this regard, I think it is appropriate to point out that, precisely in view of the cost items that will still characterize the development of health expenditure in the immediate future (purchase of hospital medicines and, in particular, expenditure on innovative medicines - hepatitis C - and innovative cancer medicines) in the forecast of the Ministry of Health, two funds have been set up to assist the regions in the reimbursement of expenditure on the purchase of innovative medicines and the purchase of innovative cancer medicines. As is well known, state resources do not exhaust the full availability of funds of the Regions called to provide health care and services: to the state financing, in fact, must be added the revenues deriving from the participation of the citizen in order to benefit both from certain services of specialized assistance, and of pharmaceutical assistance, as well as the tax revenues from which the regions subject to the plan of return from the health deficits, that is, the maximization of the rates IRPEF and IRAP. It can therefore be said that the report describes the relationship between financing and spending of the National Health Service provides adequate guarantees regarding the sustainability of the system. Moreover, I note that for the year 2019 the level of financing of the standard health needs to which the State competes will be increased by at least one billion euros compared to the availability of 2018. However, in the knowledge that health care levels are determined by the functionality and growth of the health system through new interventions and new projects, adapted to the characteristics of our National Health Service, since my establishment at the Ministry of Health I have undertaken initiatives aimed at identifying the most urgent measures to be taken in the current framework. In particular, as regards health personnel, I must remind you that the Stability Act for 2017 provided, within the National Health Fund (NSF), for the limitation of the resources necessary to ensure the renewal of contracts relating to employees and affiliated with the National Health Service, without, however, providing for an increase in the Fund itself. So we're working on this. Therefore, insufficient resources have emerged in the renewal of national collective agreements to ensure contractual benefits. That is why I renew my commitment here too and to verify, in the context of the next financial maneuver, the possibility of identifying the resources necessary both for the recognition of the contractual benefits, and for the recruitment needs, also in view of the flight of professionals from the National Health Service, which has been registered in recent years, in the awareness that starting an effective policy for staff can be increased and enhanced the attractiveness of the entire national health system. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Senator Errani to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u23	Minister, I take note of your words in relation to your commitment to the contract and staff costs. However, I can only express my deep dissatisfaction with the first part of your reasoning which I find absolutely unfounded. I provide two fundamental data: the GIMBE Observatory, one of the most authoritative, which you will certainly know, talks about cuts and definancing for the functioning of the health system between 2015 and 2018 of 12 billion; figure that, if you take it from 2010 to 2018 (and not only from 2015 to 2018) reaches 40 billion. Italian health expenditure, depending on whether you rate it at purchasing power parities or not, is below the average in Western Europe between 25 and 31.2%. There is a structural definancing of health which, even with the billion more - as I have already said - and with the recognition of contractual expenses, will bring the system into a situation of serious difficulty. And since it is written in the contract that you want to protect the national health system, if you really want to protect it, you need a strategic investment, three years. Then the fight against waste and waste and those savings must be re-financed in health care. [[Applause from Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u24	Senator Bini has the right to explain the question 3-00236 on the mandatory vaccination of minors, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u25	Minister, with the thousand-pronged decree that you passed last week, it was established that a replacement declaration of the original vaccination documentation can be submitted by 10 March 2019 and therefore postpone this obligation. For immune-depressed children, the right to education is damaged, the most fragile part of the population is weakened in order to favour the children of non-vax parents for purely electoral reasons. In a rule of law, education should be guaranteed for all. In the Patuanelli bill, intended by this majority as the measure that will solve the problem of vaccines, Article 5 says that the extraordinary plans of intervention will only be in the presence of health emergencies or significant deviations from the objectives. We would like to understand what is meant by "significant deviations" and on what scientific evidence these deviations can be defined. You, on September 25th, at the transmission "The air pulling" said that you are in favour of vaccines, but intelligently: for example, it would be good to have the obligation for measles, but not for the exavalent. Therefore, we ask you a few very clear questions and I would ask you, if possible, to answer us in an equally clear way, possibly not reading us the task written or reading it more slowly, since in this House we are also doing our best to make people understand what we are saying and I find it difficult to believe that citizens have understood the answer to the previous questions. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] How many times have you changed your mind? What position do you have on this subject? The citizens have the right to know clearly; so do we. What does flexible obligation mean? What will be done to restore scientific evidence and protect collective security? What initiatives do you intend to take to enable the right to education of immunodepressed children until 10 March? And after 10 March, will those who have not submitted the replacement declaration be denied access to childhood schools? We want to know what will happen before 10 March, what will happen next, what is meant by flexible obligation, what is your position on the subject of vaccinations, because still, in three months, we have not understood it and we have heard everything and the opposite of everything. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u26	Thank you for keeping your time.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u27	The Minister for Health, Mr Grillo, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u28	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members for making it possible to clarify my thinking on the subject of vaccination. I am convinced that the obligation, although necessary, must nevertheless take into account the epidemiological situation in a given territorial context or in certain communities or in relation to categories of individuals. The obligation is an instrument of vaccination policy and this is the scheme that also follows countries such as Spain and Germany. Obligating vaccinations may be necessary, therefore, but it is not sufficient for prevention purposes; this is demonstrated by the measles epidemic in progress in our country and the increase in cover, which the obligation has produced in generations of new born, has not interrupted the spread of the disease. In fact, the elimination of measles requires the implementation of a set of interventions, described in a plan already available and which has, however, been regrettably forgotten since 2011, as well as not funded. In order to stop the epidemic, for example, it is necessary to promote vaccination among healthcare professionals, to ensure opportunities for contact with health services, and social communication needs to be greatly enhanced. That is why I intend to rapidly update the measles plan - which the previous Government should have done and did not do - and to propose to the Government and the Regions to make concrete commitments, transforming the recommendations of the plan into targeted and verifiable actions. In this respect, the initiative of the draft parliamentary majority law, which aims to supplement the existing legislation, is welcome. I hope that concrete initiatives will be envisaged, such as strengthening vaccination services, as the World Health Organization asks us to do; to make operational the national vaccination registry, which is still missing in this country, guiltyly; to monitor the coverage of adverse events and to finance expenditure adequately. Among the many instruments should not be lacking that of obligation, of course, where the epidemiological situation indicates the prerequisites. It will be the institutional bodies of the State and of the Regions to determine for which vaccines and for which populations will be worth the obligation. Even for immune-depressed children, whose protection is particularly close to my heart, it is wrong to aim only for obligatoryness and those who do so I believe that it operates in an instrumental way, because at the moment, for the school age groups, the regime provided for by the decree-law Lorenzin remains exactly and, then, because vaccination of classmates is not enough to protect against all the risks to which these children are unfortunately exposed. As the National Center for Transplants reminded us, their protection requires personalized projects that take into account all environmental risks and not just school risks, their remaining defences and their ability to control relationships, so that as they grow up they learn to protect themselves and avoid risks. Also the last question is instrumental, waited that with the decree-law milleproroghe nothing has been done other than to extend a regime already previewed for last school year from the decree-law Lorenzin. Therefore, under current legislation, in a very simple way, after 10 March 2019 children will have access to children's schools and educational services for children whose parents will prove what has already been declared by the presentation of the vaccine booklet or other appropriate documentation. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u29	I have the floor to answer Senator Pharaoh for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u30	Mr President, Cetto Di Maio Everyone has told us that, with the next budget law, poverty will be abolished. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] The only thing you have abolished so far is the vaccination obligation. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You have invented the intelligent obligation, the federal obligation, the flexible obligation, the alternate obligation, the measles obligation yes, hexavalent no. Thanks to you, compulsory schooling has become an obligation to stay at home for immunodepressed children. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] 10,000 children who would have the right to go to school without risking their lives will not be able to do so because of the ignorance and selfishness of those who do not vaccinate and a government that winks at them. [[Applause from the PD Group]] There should be no mediation with no vax, no nuances: just as those who smoke cannot enter the cinema, those who are not vaccinated cannot enter the classroom. That's it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You have ridden and promoted buffaloes against vaccines, with your bogus and sick use of social media. We've come to a measles cover under Zambia and Sudan, you've forced us to the Lorenzin decree, a tough but necessary measure, and now you're doing the beautiful liberals. You have played with the health of children to take the votes of no vax. Freedom is not the power to harm others in the name of selfishness and superstition, freedom is another thing. You have mistaken freedom for the tyranny of no vax. A rule of law is not what everyone does as they please, as you have done. Individual freedom is limited in that of others, and the State must ensure this balance without interruption. As with the ILVA, the Genoa Bridge and everything you have said and not done, the country is the victim of your slow, tiring, dangerous, comical U-turn, but no one laughs anymore. You cared about the climate of uncertainty and chaos caused to families, teachers, school leaders and doctors, every day a new thing, a sadistic zigzag on the skin of Italians. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude. FARAONE (PD). A government that leaves the weakest and most helpless to guarantee the right to selfishness and ignorance is a government that deserves to go home. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u31	Senator Pharaoh, I didn't want to interrupt you, but please express all your arguments without insulting. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] Anyone can, in that sense, be an insult. [[Comments of Senator Pharaoh]] Please, please, as you can see, I didn't interrupt you. That's not an insult! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You accept an assessment that is up to the President. FARAONE (PD). You can't make this assessment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Why not? [[Comments of Senator Pharaoh]] Senator Pharaoh, you're feeling the start of the surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u32	Minister, thank you for being here and I take this opportunity to request the answer to the dozens of questions that my Group has put to you. I just remember that questions are not an instrument of opposition, but an expression of citizens' requests for answers, especially for patients. That said, the self-certification requested by the Government on compulsory vaccinations until March 10, 2019 brings with it a series of contradictions and it is not clear what the effects will be in case of non-compliance. Forza Italia, which has always fought a battle of civilization on this issue, considers that a step has been taken back from the valorization of the vaccination obligation, while the Government introduced the extension only to maintain electoral promises, without taking into account the opinion of science, the problems that will have the school leaders and the repercussions on children and their families and on public health. Vaccinations are a pillar for health, because they prevent serious infectious diseases that can lead to complications and death. The risk of re-introduction of diseases is more present for Italy, open to the Mediterranean and at the center of migratory flows without health control. If the vaccine covers continue to fall, it will be inevitable that some diseases will return to our country as well. For inadequate vaccine coverage, we know that in 2017 there were 5,000 cases of measles, but Minister, you are a doctor, you can not expect that in a year of vaccination obligation the disease disappears. Vaccines serve this, it takes time, and emergencies, as stated in the supposed bill, are not well known where to start. I also remember that the polio-free state in Europe is no longer there, just see the 2017 statements of the European Commissioner for cases in Pakistan, Afghanistan and Albania. This puts immunodepressed children and transplanters at risk; it certainly does not put them at risk of anything else, but at least eliminates several risks. Among his statements on television and in the press he said before introducing a flexible obligation and two days later he spoke of an intelligent obligation (in this case we should give the definition of intelligence). In any case, the application concerns the hexavalent vaccine, which you have only recommended. This statement contradicts the indication of the scientific world and I think it is very serious and unheard of that by a minister and above all a doctor. I therefore ask you to clarify definitively how you intend to proceed with the diseases included in the hexavalent vaccination: polio, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B, Haemophilus (which also involves meningitis) and diphtheria, which nowadays are still fatal diseases, as evidenced by the cases of recent years in France, Spain and Germany. I would also ask you to clarify, in order not only to create confusion, by reducing the growth recorded in the last year for the immunity of flock in our country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u33	The Minister for Health, Mr Grillo, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u34	Mr President, I repeat, although the concept seems simple to me, that obligation is an instrument of vaccination policy; obligation is not a scientific issue, it is a legal issue, so there is an abysmal difference. Then I answer the questions that Senator Rizzotti asked in the question time, which are not the ones she has addressed now, but they were about self-certification With particular regard to self-certification and the potential risks related to it, I would like to stress that with the amendment to the decree-law thousandprorogates was simply extended to the current school year the transitional regime already provided for by Decree-Law Lorenzin, I repeat: the transitional regime already provided for by Decree-Law Lorenzin. Self-certification has proved necessary in all cases where, due to intra and interregional mobility, which is a not negligible phenomenon in our country, minors carry out vaccinations at local health companies different from that of residence. In such cases, the territorially competent health care company often does not have up-to-date information on the vaccination status of all minors. Ultimately, self-certification was explained and explained in view of the absence of the national vaccine registry, whose decree was established by this Ministry just signed and not by the previous Ministry. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] The national registry is the essential tool to lift families from the documentary burden, in the sense that it will make available all the necessary information both to be able to verify in good time the actual execution of the vaccinations, and to carry out a snapshot assessment of the level of coverage on all the territories, in order to start actions aimed at the achievement of the immunological objectives. As for false self-certifications, I repeat what has been said again on other occasions. Simplifying, facilitating the procedures of self-certification does not mean supporting those who intend to declare the forgery; those who do so will incur the liability and criminal penalties provided for in the law for this purpose. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Moreover, the choice is consistent with the regulatory developments which for years now favour the principle of trust rather than that of preventive control. In addition, the Ministry of Health has already further strengthened the verification of the truthfulness of the statements. On the one hand, however, the available data show that only 0.09% of the total self-certifications but also certifications do not correspond to the truth of over 55,700 controls carried out by the anti-sophistication and health units (NAS) recently; on the other hand, as can be seen from these controls, the statements of parents concerning the vaccination situations of their minor children are not true both the certificates and the replacement declarations. That is why we have reason to believe that, unfortunately, the problem of honesty is not just about self-certification. In conclusion, from the extension of the possibility of self-certification and the implementation of the national registry, the Government expects to improve the relationship between school and family, facilitating attendance at all schools and kindergartens, in full compliance with the current provisions on administrative documentation and - I would like to reiterate - without prejudice to any public interest in the protection of health. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u35	Senator Rizzotti has the power to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u36	Minister, I wish you every success in your pregnancy, as I did when you spoke at the Commission's hearing. You have already stated that you will vaccinate your child and I imagine that you have certainly done the typing of antibodies for rubella, since it is one of those diseases of the TORK complex that causes numerous malformations in children. As regards the question on the hexavalent vaccine, on page 11 of the agenda for the sitting: It is an obligation which, as you have explained, is currently used for measles, but not for exavalent measles. So, the question was perfectly relevant. Minister, I am absolutely not satisfied with your reply, because you did not reply. Maybe she wasn't specifically prepared for the application, but I guess a doctor knows what the hexavalent vaccine includes. I remind you: diphtheria, tetanus, cough, hepatitis B, polio, Haemophilus, diseases that have not disappeared. To those who think that subjecting a child to a vaccination with six types of antigens causes an overload, I remind you that a pathogen is much more stimulating for the immune system than a vaccine. Besides, it is known that vaccination in adulthood may increase the risk of a side effect. We still expect an answer on this issue. What will become of the hexavalent vaccine? He didn't answer. Let's not forget the cough, with 89,000 registered cases and two newborns who died a few months ago in Bergamo. Mr. Minister, have the courage to change your mind once again, we would all be grateful, even the children of the no vax. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u37	Senator Ciriani has the right to explain the question 3-00232 on the adoption of measures for the protection and support of the family, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u38	Minister, you are the head of a new Dicastery set up with a measure supported by the Brothers of Italy Group, because we have shared - and we still share - the idea that policies for the family and for families must return central to the government of this country, because for too long they have been abandoned. We have shared and suggested many solutions to the problems that the family faces and from which it is threatened. The family is confronted every day with the reduction of the birth rate, the ageing of people, the lack of support structures and the loss of the purchasing power of families. Since we are talking about birth, allow me, Mr President, to congratulate Mr Grillo on his pregnancy, which I see does not prevent you from being at work. We are pleased about this and the Brothers of Italy Group wishes you well for your pregnancy. Minister Fontana, precisely because we are talking about this issue, I remind you that among the many proposals that in the election campaign the center-right side shared there was the establishment of an income dedicated to families with large children, the introduction of the family quotient, the provision of tax concessions for early childhood products, the strengthening of parental leave, the provision of free and full-time kindergartens to strengthen the reconciliation of times for the family with those dedicated to work, as well as many other issues that would be too long to detail. I therefore ask you the following question. All that we talked about and that everyone seemed to agree on, is there anything left? In fact, I have the impression that in the debate on the Economic and Financial Document and the financial maneuver - in general, in the debate on this Government's policy - the issues relating to the family, young people and disability have disappeared somewhat from the horizon. I therefore ask you whether these proposals will be accepted by the Government and will find hospitality in the next steps.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u39	Senator Ciriani, thank you for the summary.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u40	The Minister for Family Affairs and Disability, Mr Fontana, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u41	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Member for giving me the opportunity to reiterate the fundamental value of the family and of birth, enshrined in the Constitution, and which has positive repercussions both from an economic point of view and from the point of view of reducing public debt. I would like to stress this particularly in these hours of drawing up the budget lines of the Update Note to the DEF. In recent years Italian families have unfortunately been severely affected by the economic crisis and this has helped to exacerbate the demographic collapse, which, combined with the ageing population, is perhaps the country's main structural problem, even in the perspective of medium and long-term budgetary balances. Data from the European Commission's latest aging report predict a fertility rate for Italy of 1.42 children per woman in 2030, well below the maintenance threshold. I am therefore well aware of the indisputable need to reverse the adverse demographic dynamic, considering to this end the resources spent in favor of the family and the support to the birth rate as real investments in the social capital. With this in mind and in view of the definition of the budget law, I have presented a package of proposals to the Ministry of the Economy for the revival of the birth rate and support for parenthood, which concern both the fiscal and the services and social benefits. I welcome the fact that many of the initiatives proposed by the honourable Member correspond to those we are already pursuing: I am referring to measures such as the definition of a family-friendly tax system; the possibility of leaving more income in the availability of parents, especially those with different dependent children; the strengthening of the institution of parental leave; the attention to caregivers; the encouragement of investment in corporate and family welfare; the strengthening of the network of services in support of the family and the facilitations for their wider use, with particular reference to kindergartens and facilities, including private ones, for childcare, without considering drug policies, which certainly also concern the protection of families and parenting. With regard to the establishment of a child income drawn from the honourable Member, I believe that it is essential to establish a system of economic incentives for birth and for early childhood of a structural nature, to be calibrated selectively and over a reasonable period of time. Finally, I have proposed to introduce specific forms of protection in favour of those who, as a result of family crises, are increasingly exposed to socio-economic vulnerability, as well as to strengthen the fund for family policies, also revisiting the aims to which it is intended. I hope that all the members of the Government will have the same sensitivity to the issues of family and birth and I must say that I have found in several ministers a considerable sensitivity to them, without which, beyond all the proposals that are emerging in these days in the debate on financial maneuver, I sincerely believe that it will not be possible to get the country really back on track. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u42	Senator Ciriani has the right to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u43	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, which - in my opinion - still tastes vaguely doubtful, especially by listening to the last words. We naturally await the written texts and the economic and financial documents to understand the extent of your speech and your assurances. We wait for the figures and wait to read the devices and texts, to understand how much will really be realized of everything that has been promised and announced. Minister, you have also used in your public and policy statements in the Commission here in the Senate - I acknowledge this - quite strong expressions about your willingness to give a signal of change. You spoke of the need to invest more for young people, for the home and for access to real estate credit; you spoke of the need to give answers to the millions of families who have a disabled person and many other things that unfortunately I don't have time to remember. Our task, the task of our Group, the Brothers of Italy, which we repeat on this occasion, is to ensure that its promises do not remain. We don't demand everything right now, but not a little or nothing. Our task is to ensure that the establishment of the Ministry for the Family and Disability, which we too wanted and for which we voted in favour, does not result sooner or later - but I am afraid soon - in disappointment with the expectations it has created. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u44	Senator Lorefice has the right to explain the question 3-00235 on how to manage and use European cohesion funds in the next 2021-2027 programming, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u45	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let us start talking about cohesion policy, but let us also try to have a future perspective. Minister, you are well aware that on 29 May 2018 the European Commission presented the new proposal for Community Regulation No 375 concerning the new regional development plan and cohesion policy for the years 2021-2027. It shall identify within it five objectives to be pursued. The first of these is a smarter Europe by means of innovation, digitisation, economic transformation and support for small businesses and I stress small businesses because Italy - we know - is based on this type of production: small enterprises are fundamental and therefore, we do not forget it, and Europe is also helping us. In point 2 there is a greener and carbon-free Europe, we in the Movimento 5 Star for years have been fighting for decarbonisation, so it is a further assist that we must not forget through the implementation of the Paris Agreement and investments in clean energy transition, renewable energy and the fight against climate change. In point 3, we have a more connected Europe with transport networks and strategic digital networks. With reference to the networks, I would like to point out that we are interested in the networks that manage to fill that great gap that we record between the Regions of South Italy and those of North Italy; it is absurd that from Milan to Rome we take three hours with a train Areccia, while to go from Rome to Messina we take ten and a half hours. Point 4 provides for a more social Europe that achieves concrete results with regard to the European pillar of social rights. In point 5, there is a Europe closer to citizens that supports local-run development strategies and sustainable urban development across the European Union. The European Commission has decided to allocate between 65% and 85% of the resources to the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund to the first two objectives mentioned above. As I said, points 1 and 2 concern a smarter Europe and a greener Europe. Given the historical Italian difficulty in managing Community funds, which has repeatedly led to the partial restitution of the funds, given the inability of the regional and central administration to absorb and invest all the funds available to our country; considering the commitment shown by the Government and in particular by the Ministry represented by you, for a more correct and efficient management of the funds related to the 2014-2020 plan which actions, new control and support procedures and what activities the Government intends to put in the field for a correct, efficient and effective management of the funds destined to our country, in order to prevent waste and ensure the use of the funds for projects really able to favor the convergence between the various areas of the Country? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, finish your surgery. It has already taken advantage of an extra minute. LOREFICE (M5S). We have the task of reconnecting the South with the rest of the nation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u46	The Minister for the South, Senator Lezzi, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u47	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Lorefice for his interesting question, to which I am very happy to answer. When I settled down on 1 June this year, I found a paradoxical situation, that is, several hundred million were at risk of being lost and, therefore, there was a risk of losing several refunds. I would like to remind you here, also in favour of the public who listens to us from home and therefore of the citizens, that the resources of the European Structural Funds are nothing more than resources from the State, and therefore from Italy and the Italian taxpayers, who are in a guilty way wasted by regional administrations and, unfortunately, I must also say because of the negligence of my predecessor, who has made it six months after the deadline for returning the first target to obtain refunds. Cohesion policy has in fact always been treated with great distraction and not, unfortunately, as should have been done. Cohesion means to recover that gap and at the same time to accompany the recovery to the ordinary shares of investments towards those Regions that - alas - still remain behind. By this I mean that in recent years ordinary investment expenditure has been replaced by cohesion expenditure, the one that had to recover the gap. In addition, I must highlight a practice that has been accentuated especially recently, namely the so-called 'bridging projects': this means that, at a time when we have not managed to spend effectively by absorbing European expenditure, we have turned to projects that have already been financed, and those refunds have essentially gone to current expenditure. I want to put aside the past and I want to look to the future. Therefore, I have asked for full cooperation from all the Presidents of the Region, who - as you know - do not have our political color, being many of them outside the majority of this Government - for now I have obtained it, especially for the rest of the programming, for what concerns post 2020 - because we must succeed in giving to the South and the internal areas, which represent 53 percent of the Italian Municipalities - and concern the Center and also the extreme North - decent infrastructure of our Country; health services, education, universities and research centers worthy of a civil country. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u48	Senator Lorefice has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u49	Minister, I am pleased with your reply, but I would like to add a few words, which are also based on the objectives set out. For example, in point 5 of the Community regulation - as we have seen - the European Commission wants a Europe closer to its citizens. I personally wish for a Southern Minister closer to the citizens. Even the friends of the North know that if the South does not start again, the whole of Italy will have serious difficulties. Definitely thanks to you and the commitment of all the members of the majority of the Government, we will have an additional weapon to put on the field, together with the Ministers of reference, to give a real boost to the relaunch of the Government of change. You have an important task and - I repeat - I invite you to involve more closely every member of the Upper House, the Senate, and Montecitorio. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u50	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u53	De Falco (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on the issue of the defeat of poverty. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's a challenging subject, Senator. De Falco (M5S). In fact, it is a challenging issue, Mr President. "Abolish misery": this was the title of the splendid book that the economist Ernesto Rossi, author, with Altiero Spinelli and Eugenio Colorni, de "Il Manifesto di Ventotene," wrote in prison in 1942, and published in 1946: "We must unite all our forces to fight poverty for the same reasons that it was necessary in the past to fight smallpox and plague: so that the whole social body does not remain infected." The challenge today is the same, and it is the national and European public institutions that have to take on this serious task. Today, unfortunately, even the left has forgotten the poor and prefers to make fun of those who, instead, have that intention. We refer of course to material misery, which makes the life of those who are forced to a sad condition impossible, but we also refer to the misery of the soul of man, of indifference with respect to the tragedies of others. Going back in time, the Roman playwright Terenzio thus made one of his characters speak in the comedy "The punisher of himself," when he was invited not to take care of his own affairs: "Homo sum, humani nihil a me alienum puto," nothing that is human is alien to me. Even more recently, today, in the film of the Roman director Luigi Magni, "In the name of the sovereign people," a great Nino Manfredi plays the cartmaker Ciceruacchio, one of the protagonists of the Roman Republic of 1849. The character responds to the arrogant inquisitor, who asks him why he, miserable carter, meddled in that story so much bigger than him: You see, Your Excellency, I'm a cartman, but I'm a man with lost time. And the homo meddles! It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, This is the way to respond to human misery, to that cynicism that makes you lose hope and attention for the poor and the fragile and it is also embodied in the sad ironies that turn against those who aim to remedy at least the material poverty in our country. These sad ironies we heard a few days ago. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u54	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-41.ana.u55	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 2 October, at 5 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.07 a.m.
