ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u6	Mr Bagnai (L-SP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to share with you the dismay I experienced yesterday in listening to Mr Pittella's speech at the beginning of the sitting on the tragic events taking place in Greece. A shock that prevented me from reacting immediately, but perhaps this was a good thing, since, twenty-four hours later, what is obvious was stated in the press, in particular in one of the most prestigious and authoritative Italian newspapers the "Corriere della sera" (Corriere of the evening), by one of the journalists most exempt from that psychoreate that is the non-alignment to the unique thought, that is, Federico Fubini. What has happened in Greece has a multiplicity of causes, but it is impossible not to mention one, which is the result of austerity policies that have dismantled, among other things, the civil protection system of that country. The data are provided today by the evening Corriere (Corriere della sera), we are talking about cuts of 34 million euros, a firefighter's staff from 12,000 to 8,000 people and we are talking, for the people who remain, about 79 percent of overweight firefighters and under conditions of poor physical efficiency because they are forced to resort to a diet based on junk food and, therefore, obviously not being able to afford a protein diet, out of shape and not physically efficient. All this is the result of those austerity programmes which Greece has been subjected to. [[Applause from the L-SP, M5S and FdI Groups.]] I am pleased that Mr Pittella now asks for Europe's solidarity with Greece, but when it was published in 2012 by the International Monetary Fund and imposed on that country a memorandum making false cards, literally, using a value of the tax multiplier totally high [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] Mr Pittella was Vice-Vicarian Vice-President of the European Parliament. He was there and the wonderful solidarity of the European Socialist family was not seen in action. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] It is the solidarity of the wolf pack where the weak is torn apart. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups. Senator Mirabelli's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u8	Senator Pittella, if you wish to speak on behalf of the Group, I can give you the floor; if you wish to speak on a personal basis, you can do so at the end of the session.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u9	PITTELLA (PD). I am speaking on behalf of the Group. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. PITTELLA (PD). Mr President, very briefly and with complete serenity, I would like to ask my colleague, who has spoken before re-reading all the acts of the European Parliament concerning the history of Grexit and the role that the Group has played in the European Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I think that the role of European Socialists and Democrats has been decisive in saving Greece from Grexit, as Prime Minister Tsipras can testify. So I don't admit to anyone's lesson on this subject. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from M5S and L-SP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u10	The next item is the debate on proposals for a preliminary ruling on draft law No 675. I call Senator Stefano to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable representative of the Government, this decree-law arrives in the Senate after having assumed in the House the contours of a worrying affair, at times paradoxical for how it was carried out by the Government, by the majority and by Minister Bonafede himself, whom we might have wanted here in this House. There are a number of issues that are perplexing, and many of them have already pointed out. The list is limited because it is not only these that I intend to refer to in explaining this reference. The decree-law raises serious questions, so much so that a few times there has been such a broad, I would say unanimous, sharing of critical judgments: magistrates, lawyers, administrators of the Bari court, all heard in the Commission in the House and all agree in bitterly contesting the measure for reasons, as I said, all widely highlighted. The decree-law lacks the minimum requirements of necessity and urgency, intervenes to remedy an already changed situation (the curtains have already been dismantled), intends to guarantee the regular development (I repeat: regular development!) of processes and procedures, but it comes to the irregular paralysis of both, without adding any solution to change, word often used and abused (decree of change) without, however, here, as elsewhere, you can see any real new course or positive novelty. The decree-law, moreover, postpones and postulates the identification and the effective use of one or more buildings to be used at the headquarters of the judicial offices that are currently lacking but sponsoring, in reality, the disinterest in such identification, ends up legitimizing a choice revealed improvised and to say the least inappropriate, as evidenced by many media. It then has an impact on the reasonable duration of the process guaranteed by Article 111 of the Constitution and it certainly and inevitably produces delays in the time needed to restart the processes: two months of suspension have the ability, authoritatively highlighted, to produce more than a few years of delay. It incredibly multiplies the requirements necessary for those notifications to all the procedural parties, estimated in a number not less than 60,000, which instead the solution of the curtains, although mortifying, had tried to avoid and resolve. It affects principles of guarantee, including that of favour, waterproof expression of retroactivity of conditions of disfavor. It unduly differentiates similar procedural positions, exposing the suspects or defendants of Bari to procedural positions of disadvantage compared to other suspects in other parts of Italy, undiscovered violation of Article 3 of the Constitution. I could go on for a long time, following the lines of criticism to which I refer for reasons of synthesis and dialectic sense. I add only two further notations that aggravate the sense of unreasonableness of the decree-law and comfort the invitation to stop its approval. The decree-law not only allows itself to be judged unconstitutional, useless, paradoxical, but adds defects of economicity, announcing itself expensive and certainly disrespectful of the clause of financial invariance, which cannot be respected in the facts. Beyond the appeal before the European Court of Human Rights and a citation for damages by the Ministry of Justice before the Bari Peace Court, with the exception of constitutional legitimacy, the risk is to fuel a deflagrant result for economic expectations that link to the regular and timely exercise of jurisdiction, in this criminal case. They are valid for all reasonable expectations, including those of young lawyers who, unfairly, will incur the economic costs associated with the paralysis of their professional activity. In addition, the suspension of the course of the prescription is made to apply completely unreasonable, also to those offences that, in addition to having been committed before, have seen the relative trials be postponed long before its entry into force, and at a date following the deadline of 30 September 2018 fixed by it. Indifferent to the emergency situation, however, would be attracted to exceptional discipline, to which they could well have remained outsiders. This allows us to imagine profiles of unconstitutionality that will certainly be eclipsed at the resumption of the process. Mr President, this is not a pretense, but it makes sense of a reference to conditions of balance and common sense, which make it desirable, on the part of Mr Bonafede, for a proper rethinking and correction of course courageous, but necessary and - I would say - typical of that sense of hindsight which does not express weakness but, on the contrary, shows that intelligence which should guide our thoughts and open them to necessary rethinking, especially when it comes to roles of institutional responsibility and government. I conclude, therefore, by inviting us to rethink a decree-law conceived really badly and written worse! [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u12	I call Senator Vitali to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP2.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, whom I see very carefully following this debate on the constitutional preliminary ruling, I believe that a premise needs to be made. We must agree whether respect for the Constitution must be the same for everyone and must be valid forever or whether, on the contrary, respect for the Constitution has different perspectives depending on the position it takes in Parliament. I say better: in the last parliamentary term a party, which today is a majority and has responsibilities as a government, has made respect for the Constitution its flag, its own battlehorse. Today, I see that the position taken by this party is diametrically opposed to that held in the last parliamentary term. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I do not wish, then, that we had two different positions, namely respect for the Constitution by the opposition and instead not respect for the Constitution by the majority, because this would really be a very serious fact that should be censored in all fora. Mr President, I am addressing you, because I see that you are the only one who is following this debate carefully. We hear and read in the newspapers that Minister Bonafede (which we would have had the pleasure of having in the Chamber to be able to speak, because we are also available, if possible, to change our mind if someone gives us a reason or gives us an explanation) has made the function of listening an element of recognition: Minister Bonafede listens, Minister Bonafede participates. But listening to the end in itself, which does not take into account suggestions, proposals and initiatives, is absolutely useless and is a mockery of this Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I do not wish, Mr President, that this decree-law is an appetizer compared to what we should expect during the parliamentary term. I would not even like it to be part of the project to implement that principle and philosophy - which we have read in the newspapers - which belongs to the House of Associates, which even predicts the futility of Parliament, as if the election by citizens by universal suffrage was mortified and replaced by a survey within a platform, on Facebook or on other such instruments. [[Applause from the FI-BP, FdI and PD Groups]] Again in the matter of listening, we had no opportunity to proceed to hearings, albeit informal, that instead were made to the Chamber, and it is not possible that, of all the proposals and suggestions coming from the president of the court of appeal of Bari, from the president of the court of Bari, from the attorney general of Bari, from the president of the National Association of magistrates of the district of Bari and from all the other audit organizations, no initiative has been taken into consideration, as if it had already been decided that the decree-law had to be approved as it was and of the debate and of the confrontation with those organizations that will be called to carry out did not matter to anyone. True, this Government has no responsibility for the dramatic situation that has arisen at the judicial offices of the district of Bari, but this does not authorize the Government to issue a bizarre, useless, harmful and unconstitutional measure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I address my colleagues in the League, who I ask not to let justice be a field exclusively intended for the 5 Star Movement; the responsibility of government is collective: the League can and must also intervene in the field of justice, because the provision has multiple unconstitutional aspects. First of all, there are no conditions of urgency; we have heard it, but we do not say it. This was said by the parliamentarians of the majority in the debate in the House and the representatives of the judicial offices said this above all: it was a situation that dragged at least ten years, and we do not understand why, while there was a statement of emergency regarding the earthquake in L'Aquila, here we wanted to issue a decree-law without any state of emergency; which, therefore, does not justify the decree-law. There is a violation of Articles 2, 3, 25 and 111 of the Constitution. Article 2 guarantees the inviolable rights of citizens. Article 3 prohibits unequal treatment: here we are in the presence of unequal treatment ratione loci, that is, the citizen who has the misadventure of being in the district of Bari has a treatment different from all other citizens of the country. That's not possible. We have the injury of Article 111 of the Constitution: the reasonable duration of the trial. Colleagues, the suspension of the prescription, which would seem a remedy to face an emerging situation, does nothing but favor the prescription of the processes. This is what the President of the Bari Court said: to be able to restore the situation with this decree-law will take away ten years. In ten years thousands of trials will be prescribed, with many thanks from crime and with many protests from thousands of injured parties, who are raped by this measure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I am told that the Minister of Justice is a colleague, a lawyer and certainly so, but how is it possible to change the institution of prescription with retroactive effect, when we all know - they taught us at the university, but the Constitutional Court reminded us with three sentences, in 2006, 2008 and 2014 - that the institution of prescription is a substantial institution and not a procedural one? But who works at the Ministry of Justice? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Cucca]] Who writes these provisions? How do you apply the prescription with retroactive effect? A colleague of mine asked me why we are so committed to a debate whose final outcome is already written, in which they make us talk and then in the end they have already decided what to vote. I told him that unfortunately we have a romantic vision of parliamentary activity, we give the principle of good faith to our interlocutors and we always hope that at any time there will be acts of resistance and I hope that there will be a moment of resistance on this occasion. I urge the Government to stop to avoid a bad figure, to avoid once again the sanction by the European Court of Human Rights, to which the Bari lawyer has addressed with foundation, legitimacy and consistency and the civil magistrate, before whom the Minister of Justice for damages has been mentioned. In conclusion, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, we believe that there is a lack of urgency which would justify the suspension of trials and the possibility of walking together on the principle of the irretroactivity of the criminal law, not to mention all the other violations of the substantive nature that exist and of which we will discuss later if this reference should be rejected. Have a moment of reflection and avoid taking this measure forward, which will create enormous damage to Bari justice already sick on its own. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Cucca. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u14	One representative per Group will be able to speak during the debate for no more than ten minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u17	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, as emerges from the questions we are about to vote on for a preliminary ruling, the text before us raises some concerns about constitutional legitimacy. In particular, the decree-law does not appear to have the requisite conditions of necessity and urgency which the Constitution, in Article 77, clearly sets out as indispensable for the legitimate use of the decree of urgency. It is true that we represented the urgency to resolve the problems of the Bari court, but this urgency had to be applied to the search for a solution, identifying a building that could permanently accommodate the court and all its offices. This suspension of the terms is a decidedly drastic measure, which has been adopted in the past in absolutely extreme cases, as in the event of serious natural disasters, which in fact made the ordinary continuation of jurisdiction impossible. They were therefore genuinely urgent provisions aimed at ensuring the proper exercise of jurisdiction in the courts. It is serious that the decree-law was not adopted as a result of a declaration of a state of emergency, and that the provisions were in fact determined by negligence in the management of the Bari judicial machinery. It is serious that the Minister, when adopting this measure, concentrated only on the suspension of the time limits of the proceedings and did not at the same time identify the availability of a suitable public office to transfer the offices of the Bari court and the prosecutor. A logistic solution was what was expected, this yes with urgency. This drastic nature risks harming constitutionally guaranteed rights, which have already been extensively illustrated in previous interventions. However, I would like to focus on Article 24 of the Constitution, which states the right to take legal action for the protection of its legitimate rights and interests and states that defence is an inviolable right in every state and degree of the proceedings. I would also like to mention Article 111 of the Constitution, which states that jurisdiction is implemented by the right process and that the law ensures the reasonable duration of the trial. In the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, it is noted that during the hearings held during the parliamentary procedure in the other branch of Parliament: the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Bari pointed out, in particular, that the adoption of the decree-law is not without costs at all. It is correctly observed that the chancellors will be forced to prepare at least 60,000 notifications, in order to convene the new hearings, without considering the costs unnecessarily incurred for advice and interceptions: all activities that are put into thin air and are related to processes, which will certainly not come to an end. The estimate of 60,000 notifications will also lead to an extension of the processes and a cost - the Ministry already speaks of a task force, which will then have to be engaged to the resumption of the activity - and also marks an extension of the limitation periods, with opposite consequences in relation to the objectives that are hoped to be pursued. Therefore, in conclusion, the provisions of the decree-law in question present clear profiles of unconstitutionality, with particular regard to Articles 2, 3 and 24 of the Constitution, since it is a suspension of the terms, that is, a clear violation of the principle of legality. Moreover, the decree-law in question refers to pending criminal proceedings, without specifying the date on which the same proceedings should be carried out. That is why we have tabled an amendment in order to clarify the point, because even the indeterminateness of these times creates perplexities and profiles of unconstitutionality. We cannot just talk about pending criminal proceedings, but it must be specified that these are pending proceedings on the date of the enactment of the decree-law, i.e. last June. For these reasons, I preannounce the vote in favour of the Free and Equal Group to the questions put to the vote for a preliminary ruling [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u20	STANCANELLI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall now speak exclusively on the question of constitutionality. In the event that it is not adopted, I reserve the right to speak in the general debate. I would therefore like to make very few comments on the constitutionality of this measure. Although he is not here at the moment, I would like to address the Minister, whom I appreciated at his hearing in the Commission, because he has shown willingness to listen, as has been said earlier. Since he belongs to a political force that has made its flag of the Constitution, I would legitimately like the Minister to reflect on this affair, which seems small, but which is of fundamental importance for the preservation of constitutional principles. It is in fact a decree-law that intervenes substantially not on judicial construction, but on a principle sacrosanct in our legal order, contained in Article 3 and Article 25 of the Constitution, that is, the principles concerning the equality of citizens before the law and the certainty of the penalty, in relation to the consideration, now consecrated by constitutional jurisprudence, according to which the course of the prescription is not a procedural term, but a substantive principle. The Constitutional Court has expressed itself many times in defining the limitation as an element of criminality. It is a general principle that nothing poena sine lege, so if it is not foreseen at the time of the commission of the crime, that particular penalty, that certain punishment cannot be imposed. These considerations, in accordance with Article 3, Article 25 and Article 111 of the Constitution recalled by the other speakers, encourage us to hope that the Government, in the person of the Minister, who is a lawyer and lawyer, will reconsider the need to approve the decree-law in question which nothing resolves in relation to the serious situation in Bari, which did not occur 2, 3 or 4 months ago but is known by the legal practitioners for ten or fifteen years. I therefore believe that even the rule on financial invariance does not correspond to the truth, because it has also been said in the hearings held in the House that at least 60,000 notifications must be made, which means a disbursement. All these considerations make us believe, and we shall therefore vote in favour of the question referred for a preliminary ruling, that the decree-law in question cannot continue its process; if, by adventure, Parliament decides by majority that the measure is constitutional, we reserve the right to enter into the substance to announce our opposition. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u23	VALENT (PD). Mr President, it has already been said (and I would like to start from this point) that the decree-law in question arrives in the Senate Chamber after having had as short as it is absurd. It has come to the point that on 12 July Minister Bonafede had to rush and rage to the House to try, among other things, to explain why it was only a newspaper that made the necessary and necessary investigations that the Government should have done in a completely autonomous manner in due time. I would like to recall in this regard that if it had not been for the demands of the Democratic Party and the other oppositions Minister Bonafede that day would not have gone far beyond some post or some tweets. This is to say first of all how much the Government takes into account the role of Parliament. I would like to mention this without controversy: the Government is wrong to offend itself if Parliament raises questions about a measure that, through a decree-law, suspends the terms of a criminal trial. I repeat: by means of a decree-law, it suspends the terms of a criminal trial. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, please leave the Undersecretaries free to listen to speeches in the Chamber. VALENT (PD). It is, of course, an abnormal choice to say the least. The Government cannot be offended then if an offer of help comes from the oppositions to remove itself, with all evidence, from a situation of obvious difficulty in which the Government itself went to get into. It cannot be the defence of Parliament when it is opposed and demeaned when it becomes a majority. But it is what, alas, we have seen happen to this day, until this moment. For this reason, first of all, we ask the Government for a different attitude in considering the objective problems that the decree-law poses. I do not say that, it is not only the Democratic Party's support; they have told you, almost unanimously, judges, lawyers and administrators of the Bari Court heard in the Commission in the House. You have to explain to them why they were called to the hearing and then all their timely and targeted suggestions have been done absolutely nothing [[Applause from the PD Group]] Our doubts about the decree-law were strong at the start and with the passing of the days - alas! They've strengthened, Mr. President. It was decided to act by decree-law finding the necessity and urgency of a suspension order. We have said this: we are concerned that the Minister has claimed it several times, claiming that, in the face of a situation defined as dramatic, the aim is to remove the curtains. My colleague Stefano said it right. And that - alas - was also repeated by the Minister in Parliament, unfortunately. We, in short, are voting a decree-law to remove the tents that Civil Protection has in fact already disassembled in one day, and, therefore, without changing the situation of Bari by a single comma. And then I would like to understand where the urgency and its objective reasons lie; those reasons which two Constitutional Court judgments call as a prerequisite for the use of a regulatory instrument like this. We are talking about urgent and indisputable measures that should ensure the smooth running of processes and procedures: this is what is already written in the section. Too bad that there is no intervention in the decree-law that goes in the sense of this guarantee. The truth is another, even if the Minister of Justice denies it insisting that the decree-law does not include the identification of the new property. It is enough to read the technical report to the decree, although perhaps this Government is allergic to technical reports. [[Applause from the PD Group]] There it is written that the suspension until 30 September represents the period necessary to allow the administration to complete the initiatives already in progress for the identification and the effective use of one or more buildings to be used at the headquarters of the judicial offices that are currently lacking. So it is the same Government that speaks of the property as an essential part to solve the problem. You see, then, that there is a problem. To date, there is no certainty that in a short time an appropriate building will be chosen, unless it perseveres in the error made by the Minister by identifying a building that, already only because of its size, is clearly unfit to host the palace of justice, as the president of the criminal chambers has said. And this is just one of the issues that emerge from the choice made and - at least from what we learn from the Minister's statements - at the moment suspended. I would remind everyone that the Minister said in the House that he would do the necessary checks. But of these checks to date - several days have passed - there is no trace. The other criticality concerns the ways and times with which the entire procedure of identifying the property was conducted by the Government. Parliament knew - as I said at the beginning of my speech - only from the press that the new office had been purchased a few months ago, after so many years of abandonment, from a public fund on behalf of a company whose majority partner appears to be an entrepreneur - we can say this - rather unscrupulous, at least for relations and investments. We in the Democratic Party do not make exceptions, not even in this matter. But the rush is a bad councilwoman. And it is more than lawful, indeed I would say right, not only for the PD but for all of us, to raise doubts as to whether we should proceed so quickly and diligently. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , and then arrive at a decision that not only in fact is very expensive for the state, but in essence it is not even resolving the building problem that involves the court of Bari. I'd say doubts are more than lawful. Let us realize that, until 30 September, there is a risk that further extensions and extensions will be needed in this context, and at the moment it is very high. This is a very real risk that the representative of the Government in the Justice Commission, last week, could not deny it. However, it preferred to postpone the reply to the question of when it was not known; on the other hand, it is consistent with the general and smoky statements and clarifications given by the Minister himself. Then the representatives of the Government and of the majority would do well to stop until they are still in time, before, that is, to go ahead and find themselves in the situation in a few months' time to be forced to assume those responsibilities that today the Minister of Justice refuses to take. We therefore reiterate once again what we have already said with a loud voice these days: the Minister agrees to the attribution of extraordinary powers for himself or for whom he intends to delegate, so as to have the power to identify and make operational a property really suitable for hosting the seat of the Bari court. Then there is another point, which is not insignificant and perhaps even more worrying: the reasonable duration of the trial, guaranteed by Article 111 of our beautiful Constitution. I may have distracted myself, but I don't remember the derogation from this principle being contained in your government contract. Maybe it was too much for you, too. The suspension will result in delays in the time needed to restart the processes. All this, in the coming years, will be a serious stumbling block for the smooth functioning of the judicial function. What a measure for the efficiency of justice! It is the opposite and the President of the Bari Court has repeated it: if you suspend the activities for two months, you do a damage that will be recoverable only in ten years. Ten years, Mr. President! In addition, this measure recklessly affects the institution of prescription. It means getting into a tight leg on the irretroactivity of criminal law, but above all it means preventing for an indefinite time the regular conduct of criminal justice, with the result - and it is not a small result - that an suspect, by the mere fact of being part of an incardinated procedure in Bari, will find himself in a procedural position of disadvantage compared to others investigated in other parts of Italy. This, Mr President, is a blatant and macroscopic violation of Article 3 of our Constitution. [[Applause from the PD Group]] All citizens are equal. In essence, then, with this decree-law the prescription is suspended for two months, but in reality it is likely to be approached, since at least 60,000 notifications are estimated that will have to be repeated, from the summons in court, to the date, to the notice of witnesses. We are creating a very dangerous precedent, without even - alas - having clear what the purpose of the decree-law is. When these problems were posed by all political forces and operators, on the part of the government there was complete silence, I would say a deafening silence. Neither has the Legislative Committee been heard so far, which asked to limit the scope of the proceedings involved, indicating at least at what date the slope should be considered, as was done for the suspensive decree after the 2016 earthquake. Tell me, then, what is the point of listening if nothing is done about the warnings and suggestions received? All this, however, is not at no cost to anyone: it is not for the parties involved in the trial, because you are touching the rights of the accused and the suspect, but also those of the people who have suffered the offense; it is not for the efficiency of justice, because the regular exercise of criminal justice will suffer a serious blow, for the magistrates and lawyers. An appeal to the European Court of Human Rights and a summons for damages from the Ministry of Justice have already arrived in one week. I'm afraid more will come. That too would have been enough to listen. No benefit will then be given to the citizens, who will see their right expectation hit. It is not yet at zero cost to the state's coffers: I find it serious that the coverage figures have not been given. Finally, Mr President, these are the reasons behind our question. The government had the opportunity to demonstrate in fact that it wanted to make our justice system more efficient. He missed another chance. We ask him, with our preliminary question, to stop, because wrong is human, but persevering is diabolical. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u26	CANDURA (L-SP). Mr President, illustrious representatives of our Government, kind senators, kind senators, we start from an objective situation: the property, which was temporarily destined for Bari's palace of justice, has become, thanks to the inertia of all the authorities involved, definitively provisional. Already in 2012 - and the Government was not of the League and was not of the Movimento 5 Stars - structural consolidation changes took place. In May of this year, following an expert opinion requested by INAIL, which sanctioned the danger of asymptomatic collapse - that is, from one moment to the next - of the structure, the Municipality of Bari was forced to withdraw the agibility. It is curious that Mr Bonafede, the only Minister of Justice who has acted on the problem, is accused of having acted on it. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] There would be no need and urgency. We have a situation in which the work of criminal and civil proceedings takes place in a tent city, under conditions which, far from being of procedural peace, do not respect the terms of the Geneva Convention on the treatment of prisoners of war. But someone here is an exception of constitutionality. But what a constitutionality, when we have time to suspend proceedings, which are terms of suspension not only of the prescription, but also of the terms of defence - regarding the length of the trials - of three months. The suggestions of colleagues from PD and Senator Valente are always welcome, if constructive. Too bad, however, that in recent years you have not been able to give the right suggestions to your governments, given the situation of justice. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] We have a situation... [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Shame on you! [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u27	Senator Candura, please stick to the merits of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u28	[[Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] CANDURA (L-SP). Your response to the overcrowding of prisons was a decree that emptied prisons, disguised as prison reform. FARAONE (PD). Talk about your government! CANDURA (L-SP). You can't talk anymore. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pharaoh, please. Senator Candura is speaking. FARAONE (PD). Listen to him! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I am fully listening to what you are saying and I have invited you to stick to the merits of the measure. You, please, let me lead the work of this House. Senator Candura, I invite you to address the Presidency. CANDURA (L-SP). Mr President, the Government of Change has already begun and will continue. [[Comments of Senator Giarrusso]] As for... [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u29	Senator Candura, I would once again urge you to continue your speech by addressing the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u30	CANDURA (L-SP). The first act we had to examine in the Justice Commission was the reform of the penitentiary system. Behind this name there was an empty prison provision. During the hearings, the auditors summoned by our oppositions - in particular by the Democratic Party - spoke of solutions such as the release of 46,000 inmates out of 58,000, because only 12,000 are scoundrels. MALPEZZI (PD). It's about the provision! CANDURA (L-SP). The measure is linked, because the condition of the palaces of justice in Italy follows your inactivity at the same time. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] FARAONE (PD). Look at the President! Mr Laus (PD). Talk to the presidency! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pharaoh, I have already invited him to do so, but if you intervene, Senator Candura answers. I ask you once again not to speak and I ask the senator to address the Presidency. I don't speak anymore. CANDURA (L-SP). In Italy the situation of the palaces of justice, prisons and justice has not been in emergency since May 2018. This is an emergency that has lasted for years, in the inertia of those who had the responsibility not to make suggestions, but to make. Today a Minister is criticized for taking urgent action, because - I repeat - carrying out trials in a tent city is ridiculous and uncivilized. MALPEZZI (PD). It's not a tent city, it's a palace! CANDURA (L-SP). Extending the terms means guaranteeing the defence of elementary rights, including those who work in justice, i.e. judges and lawyers. Consequently, we believe that the proposals for a preliminary ruling are completely unfounded. And with regard to the proposal for a preliminary ruling tabled by the Democratic Party, I would add an assessment of absolute shame. It's shameful. They've been to the government! It's shameful! [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups. Comments from the PD Group]] FARAONE (PD). Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to moderate your terms. CANDURA (L-SP). Mr President, I have finished my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u33	Mr Quagliarello (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I intend to live up to a code of conduct which I have given myself since the day the Commission asked for the confidence of this House. A conduct, that is, of rigorous opposition but never preliminary and much less instrumental. I will therefore be very careful to distinguish the waste of structural deficiencies that afflict the public apparatus of our country (among these, the shame of a situation widely known as unsustainable, yet dragged over the years) by new but in my opinion no less serious deficiencies. And if the past cannot be blamed to a government in office for a few weeks, the present is not seen to who else should be asked to account. Mr President, gentlemen of the Government, as I said and as was said a moment ago by my colleague from the League that preceded me, that of Bari's palace of justice was a well-known situation for a long time. Just yesterday, preparing this intervention, I found a documentation dating back to 2010 in which the problem of the site of via Nazariantz was already called "annous" (and in fact it was going on a long time). On that occasion the ground floor of the palace of justice had been invaded by the discharge of sewage from the sewage system: an effective metaphor of a situation left guilty to rot. For long years, one wondered how it could be tolerated that the law enforcement offices were left in an outlawed building. For long years we have all listened, and some of us supported, to the heartfelt appeals of the justice workers of the Apulian capital. For many years we have been struggling with the dullness of those who have hindered, for reasons that we hope were only ideological, structural and innovative solutions that were also within reach. The result is that magistrates, lawyers, chancellors, civilian parts and defendants were for the first time united in the role of victims. But was this the solution to be adopted or is this decree not, in order to remain on the subject, an ancillary penalty? At first it was passed from an inertia almost twenty years old to a reaction dictated by a sort of hysteria; from the "everything goes well," Madame Marquise to improvised, disorderly and precipitous operations, as if we were in the imminence of a collapse. And so we ended up celebrating trials in a tent city. Then, handling with disconcerting ease an institution such as the prescription - which, as my colleagues Vitali and Stancanelli have said better than I have, the orientation of constitutional jurisprudence qualifies as an institute of substantive criminal law, subject to the principle of legality - it was established that to pay the price of the inertia of the past and of the hysteria of the present were the citizens. With peaks of remarkable amenity, such as a suspension of the terms that operates also in August, when notoriously of trials are not celebrated. And without any concern in the meantime to put in place extraordinary measures to cope with a surplus of obligations that, only to mention the notifications to be renewed, the prosecutor of the Republic of Bari has quantified in the number of 60,000. Perhaps - I say this to my colleagues in the government - compared to the risk that so many trials will go up in smoke, this problem is slightly more significant than the beginning of the period in August. The prescription, we said, is not a procedural harp; probably Minister Bonafede considers it an annoying obstacle, if not a criminal agent, but in reality it is an institute of civilization that involves the renunciation of the State to the punitive power for reasons related to the passage of time, when this passage of time is determined by the administration of justice itself. It is no coincidence that our legal system links the suspension of the terms of the trial to the requests for referral by the defendant. On the contrary, it is unheard of that to stop the passage of the prescription, even for trials not yet begun, both the inability of the State and its articulations to guarantee the exercise of justice in a suitable place, for reasons not unpredictable, such as an earthquake, but so predictable that it has been known for almost twenty years. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In short, if this decree is the card of government initiatives in the matter of justice, the debut is definitely a stick. You see, gentlemen of the government, I do not believe that politics can be measured only in terms of immediate consent at the audience of reference of one's own action. But when, in such a divisive context as that of criminal justice, one succeeds in agreeing at one stroke only lawyers and magistrates, and there are heavy criticisms both on the procedural management of the emergency as well as on the proposed building solutions to fill it provisionally, perhaps, in your place, some questions I would ask myself. It is not a matter of greening the old adage of the many enemies, so much honor; here there are no enemies, there are only citizens who risk paying twice for other people's shortcomings. Instead, abstracting ourselves for a moment from the very current, and assuming the Bari case as an emblem of ancient and structural dysfunctions, it would be appropriate for this event to represent the opportunity to reflect on a more overall deficit in the management of the public real estate. The palace of justice of the Apulian capital in this regard, rather than an exception, is a sort of resounding paradigm. There is a problem - it should be said - as big as a house. And this problem concerns judicial offices no less than schools and other buildings of strategic importance, as they are used for essential public services. Even if the issue of technical supervision and maintenance of the real estate was to be considered only in terms of expenditure, it would be a necessary expense because it affects the safety of citizens and, as we saw in Bari, the continuity in the provision of services. But the point is that monitoring systematically, maintaining, consolidating, securing the buildings that house our schools, our courts, our hospitals, would even lead to savings, economies of scale for the benefit of public finances. In fact, there are often questions about the amount of current expenditure on supervision and building maintenance; too rarely one wonders how much costs it costs to manage emergencies that one is not prepared to deal with. However - let me be quite clear - the situation in which the provinces are located, as far as schools and roads are concerned, is making the situation very much worse. As you can see, colleagues in the government, we are not inclined to make the whole grass a bundle. We are well aware that there are atavistic problems and problems which, on the contrary, result in the present. As I said in the preamble, this affair recalls ancient responsibilities and new responsibilities. We don't forget the old ones. On the new ones we are called today to speak in this House, without prejudice but with the firmness of a judgment that is deeply negative on the substance and, as far as this decree is concerned, it will not fall under the statute of limitations. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u36	CRUCIOLI (M5S). Mr President, honourable representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief. Some of the prejudiceal exceptions that have been placed would deserve more time but, since I have a few minutes at my disposal, I will focus on the main ones that unite the PD and the Brothers of Italy. First of all, with regard to the alleged lack of the requirements of Article 77 of the Constitution, namely the necessity and urgency, the person who raises this preliminary ruling says something true, but also something unfounded. The real one is that, in fact, the situation of the Bari court was known since 2012, or even since 2010, and that for so many years the previous governments, and not this, have let the court be prey to carelessness and were not maintained. However, a new fact - and here we come to the unfounded accusation - is that a 2018 expert report, therefore very recent, has made it clear that the Bari court could no longer be used for the risk of collapse without notice. So in May 2018 a factum principis intervened, i.e. an order of the Municipality of Bari that revoked the agibility. It also appears that in August an order will even be issued. Therefore, it has only been since May 2018 that this court, for a long time the subject of the neglect of previous administrations, has become no longer available. Such a situation therefore, which has recently emerged from the point of view of inagibility, unites the present case with other applicants in our system. When it emerges that it is impossible to use a building either for natural or human reasons or, precisely, for administrative measures, it is possible - and the Government has already intervened in similar cases - to intervene with the decree of urgency. I cite only a few decree-laws that begin even from the sixties: Decree-Law No. 914 of 1966, Decree-Law No. 2 of 1973, Decree-Law No. 39 of 2009, Decree-Law No. 74 of 2012, Decree-Law No. 189 of 2016. Those who raise this preliminary ruling refer - in my view not correctly - to the judgment No 171 of the Constitutional Court in 2007. If you take the trouble to read this judgment, the Constitutional Court says in it that the extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency provided for in Article 77 leave a wide margin of flexibility and that the Government can decide to provide with emergency decrees, citing some cases: in cases of natural events, human behaviour and even measures of public authority. Therefore, there is an assimilation of these facts which makes it clear that in the specific case there has been no more or less action than what has been done in the past. I add - and here I come to the second exception that is raised - that the Government, when it suspended the terms of the trials and proceedings, has also acted on the suspension of the prescription and never, in all the cases that I mentioned earlier, has the Constitutional Court intervened to censor the fact. Moreover, in cases where laws are suspended the processes and procedures must or can be affected also on the time limit, suspending it, is an immanent principle of our system, which has also been crystallized in Article 159 of the Criminal Code. Therefore, there is no constitutional issue on the point. I shall confine myself, however, to saying that the suspension is only three months, it intervenes in a case similar to the previous ones and allows this Government to do, precisely in a few months, what the previous governments have not done in two legislatures. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u37	Pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred for a preliminary ruling, with several reasons, by Senator Marcucci and other senators (QP1) and Senator Vitali and other senators (QP2), referring to the bill n. 675. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u38	The next item is the debate on draft law 624. The rapporteur, Senator Petrocelli, requested authorization to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u39	Mr President, since we will have to suspend our work within five minutes, I would ask that the report be postponed until the sitting is resumed at 3.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u40	The sitting is therefore suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 10.40 a.m. and resumed at 3.40 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u41	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Mr Senators, the news of the disappearance of Sergio Marchionne, whose dramatic health conditions have been known for days, cannot help but find in this House a moment of remembrance and reflection. This is not objectively the place for an in-depth assessment of its work and the managerial objectives achieved. I am sure that a detailed historical analysis will be inevitable in the coming years. What I would like to highlight at this moment is the human trait and the undisputed Italianity of a great professional who has been able to bring the Italian product to the world; a not isolated journey that refers to the pioneers of Italian entrepreneurship who have helped to make great the name of Italy in the international markets. All those who have known Sergio Marchionne have inevitably been struck by the bond that has always maintained with his homeland, Abruzzo, with the deep roots of his family; a family that has known the drama of the Istrian-dalmatian exodus and that then, crossing the Atlantic, sought and found that common ransom to many children of our homeland. As for the industrial aspects, my hope is that the fruits of its choices and intuitions will not be dispersed, but can continue to live for the good of FCA, Italian workers and the whole country. To the relatives and family Agnelli Elkann I wish to express the senses of my deep condolences for the loss of an enlightened professional, a dear friend and an extraordinary father. I therefore call on all my fellow Members to observe a minute's recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u42	The rapporteur, Senator Petrocelli, has the floor for the oral report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u43	Mr President, the draft law that we are going to examine concerns the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 84 of 2018, aimed at increasing for the year 2018 the operational capacity both of the Coast Guard of the Ministry of Defence and of the bodies for the coastal safety of the Libyan Ministry of the Interior, through the transfer free of charge of Italian naval units, as well as the supply of the resources necessary for the maintenance of these means and the carrying out of specific training and training activities for the Libyan personnel. (15:45) (Following Mr Petrocelli, rapporteur) I would like to start by reminding you that the issues of making Italian naval units available to Libya, their maintenance and the conduct of targeted training activities are not new, having been the subject of bilateral agreements and cooperation between our two countries since 2009, in the framework of activities aimed at the control and security of the seas, as well as the fight against irregular immigration and trafficking of human beings. The bilateral agreements signed in the past have also led to the adoption of specific technical and operational protocols concerning training activities. I recall above all the Treaty of Friendship, Partnership and Cooperation between Italy and Libya, signed in Benghazi on 30 August 2008. This Treaty reaffirmed the commitment of the parties to work towards the strengthening of peace, security and stability, in particular in the Mediterranean region, and defined a new bilateral partnership, including (in Article 19) the intensification of bilateral cooperation in the fight against terrorism, organised crime, drug trafficking and illegal immigration, as well as the establishment of a system of control of Libyan land borders to be entrusted to Italian companies. I would also remind you that the Declaration of Tripoli of January 2012, with which Italy secured its political support for the process of national peace in Libya, also last followed the Memorandum of Understanding signed in February 2017, which establishes the mutual commitment of the two Governments to complete the system of control of the southern borders of Libya provided for by the Treaty of 2008. The measure we are going to examine is, therefore, in close continuity with the Italian commitment of recent years, aimed at strengthening the operational instruments available to Tripoli to exercise its authority in the control of the waters in front of the Libyan coast, aiming at strengthening the collaboration agreements signed in the recent past. Of the decree-law I highlight in the first place the requirements of extraordinaryness and urgency, given - it seems obvious to me - the necessity to contribute in a very short time to the consolidation of the operational capacities of Libya, in accordance with the demands of the Government of Tripoli, in the control and supervision of its territorial waters, also in order to guarantee the safety of navigation in the Mediterranean and to put an embankment to the irregular immigration and the traffic of human beings that move from Africa to Europe and that for too many years they have been interested precisely the route of the Central Mediterranean. For our country, in particular, the strengthening of bilateral cooperation with Libya is an extremely important element, not only in order to continue to pursue the objective of reducing the migratory pressure, which almost always originates from the Libyan coasts, but also for a more adequate protection of the external borders themselves, Italy and the European Union, as well as for an effective action to combat international organised crime and prevention from the potential risks of infiltration of entities adjacent to terrorist organisations. Going to the contents of the provision, I highlight that the bill of conversion consists of a single article that arranges the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 84 of 2018 to date from the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal. The decree-law, in turn, consists of 4 articles that have, respectively: in relation to the cessions of naval units to Libya (Article 1); the maintenance activities of the naval units and the training of the staff (Article 2); the financial coverage (Article 3); the entry into force of the text (Article 4). More in detail, the article 1, paragraph 1, of the decree-law provides, for the individual members of the Armed Forces and police, the specific authorization to the cession, free of charge, of twelve naval units, as well as the relative authorization of expense. It is previewed in particular that the Ministry of infrastructures and the transports and the Ministry of the economy and the finances are authorized to the cession free of charge of ten naval units CP, class 500, between those in endowment to the Corps of the captaincies of coastal port-Guardia and two naval units from 27 meters, class Corrubia, between those supplied to the Guard of finance. Such transfer shall take place in accordance with specific arrangements with Libyan authorities and in full compliance with existing international and European provisions on international sanctions. For the restoration in efficiency and the transfer of the naval units from Italy to Libya is authorized a total expense, for the year only 2018, of 1.15 million euros. Article 2 of the decree-law in question establishes, in turn, the authorization to a total expense of 1.37 million euros, until 31 December 2018, for the maintenance of the single naval units yielded and the carrying out of training activities and training of the personnel of the Coast Guard of the Ministry of Defense and the organs for the coastal safety of the Ministry of the Libyan interior. Therefore, the total costs of the measure are quantified at EUR 2.52 million for the year 2018 alone, to which Article 3 is covered by a corresponding reduction of the appropriation of the special fund of registered current part, for the purposes of the 2018-2020 three-year budget, under the programme "Source and special funds" of the mission "Sources to be allocated" of the estimates of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. In order to achieve this, provision will be made for the Ministries of the Interior, Infrastructure and Transport, Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation. The statement of charges, as you can easily see from the attached documents, is detailed in the technical report attached to the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u44	I declare the general discussion open. Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Decree-Law No 84 of 22 June 2018 may seem minimal and of residual importance, while, in our opinion, it expresses its full value and scope, especially in view of the strategy that the Government wants and will want to implement in relation to the management of the migration phenomenon. It is a subject on which we confront each other and at times we also clash with harshness, which every day touches our people, especially the weakest sections of our population. Therefore, it is a subject that we cannot deal with superficially, but that must see us all involved in the common interest of our nation. Well, in this regard, starting from the position of Brothers of Italy, we have always been in favour of cooperation with the countries of North Africa in the control of migratory flows. The content of the decree-law in question clearly responds to this. Relations with these countries - Libya in particular - must therefore certainly be increased. I remind all of us that since 2007-2008 (i.e. with a center-right government) it started with agreements of this kind. The same government of the past legislature (I am referring, therefore, to a left-wing government and Minister Minniti), after four years of absolute inability to address the migration problem, in the end it could only agree with these countries to try to put a stop to the phenomenon. So we all agree on the principle. We add that the issue of Africa and migration must be addressed by all, also in the awareness that the problems of these countries must first be solved at home and, where this is not possible, we must find a solution and put a stop - I am referring to the naval blockade, which the Brothers of Italy have been supporting with a loud voice for a long time - in order to prevent them from arriving in our country and in our Europe. Specifically, with regard to the measure itself, Brothers of Italy has already pointed out the problems contained in the decree-law when he arrived in the Commission and, in particular, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. He pointed out that the decree was rather sloppy and stingy in some parts; even there were problems of coverage, there was the absolute absence of clarification of the relative decrease in the capital of the State's assets because, by surrendering a good of the State, its assets are decreasing and nothing was foreseen in numerical terms in the decree reached in the Commission. As well as there were obvious and obvious inconsistencies (even highlighted by the Senate Studies Service, but not then transposed by the Government text) on the expenses at the basis of the decree. Fortunately, thanks also to the intervention of Brothers of Italy in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Government responded on these three aspects, giving a finally complete characterization to the decree in question; we note and thank the Government. We want to stress, however, a fundamental aspect, which concerns the safeguarding of operational capacity; that is, we are dealing with a free sale of motor boats, boats and ships to Libya, to control and patrol the coasts. We all agree: welcome. However, in doing so, let us take these naval vehicles from the Coast Guard and the Finance Guard. We, then, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but also in the Committee on Finance, have asked the Government for assurances that the failure of the patrols did not affect the structural availability of our forces of order. However, there was a lack of clarity here. Indeed, in words, the Government has given us assurances and I note, although I am also competent in the Finance Committee, that the Commission has expressed a favourable opinion on the assumption that the naval units of the Finance Guard should not be reintegrated, basically it is said that there should be no problems. They are therefore given the ships, provided that there are no problems in our fleet. However, since words do not find formalization in the law, we ask and reiterate the appeal to the Government - which in my opinion should be shared from right to left - to clarify in the decree-law, we hope unequivocally, the safeguarding of the operational capacity of the Coast Guard and the Financial Guard. It is clear to us, as my colleague who will follow, that if these motor vehicles are taken, they will not be replaced. We then ask the Government to make clarity and correspond to the amendment submitted by Brothers of Italy to the signature of Senator Urso, who asks to insert in paragraph 1 of article 1 of the decree-law, after the words \"in the matter of sanctions", the following: "and, in any case, compatible with the requirements of safeguard of the levels of efficiency and of operating ability of the Harbour offices - Coast Guard and of the Guard of finance concerned, ". I conclude by thanking for the attention and hoping that the Government will really care about the phenomenon of migration policies, but also have at heart that our territorial structures do not fail in the instruments we need to patrol and defend our coasts. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u46	Senator Fusco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly honoured to be able to speak for the first time in this House, and I am even more so because of the importance of this decree. As everyone knows, Italy has been experiencing a particularly critical situation in this period and for years now with regard to the migratory phenomena that are affecting the whole country. It is therefore necessary to intervene with measures and agreements aimed at facilitating the restoration of control of these flows, continuing in the direction that the current Government has outlined and shown to want to follow on several occasions since its establishment. The decree-law that we are debating today pursues the dual objective of wanting to limit the now unsustainable trafficking of human beings in the Mediterranean, unsustainable in economic terms but even more in terms of humanitarian costs. Just think, in this regard, of the thousands of people who, with the hope of finding better living conditions, leave their country of origin and often fail to reach the coasts of any European country, losing their lives in the worst of cases. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] The cession of Italian naval units in support of the Coast Guard of the Ministry of Defense and the organs for the coastal safety of the Ministry of the Libyan interior that the decree-law under consideration previews, has the objective of finally wanting to intervene in favor of a wished and now more than necessary correct management of the migratory flows, with particular interest to those coming from Libya, attributing maximum importance to the necessity to contrast the traffics of human beings and to the safeguard of the human life at sea. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] In my opinion, the provision of the resources necessary for the maintenance of such means and the carrying out of specific training and training activities for Libyan personnel should be interpreted in the same way. These measures are not new and are fully part of the path traced by numerous and important agreements between the two countries in the last ten years. As mentioned by several colleagues in the Commission, this decree continues, in fact, what has already been undertaken since 2009, from which, with a series of bilateral agreements between Italy and Libya, it was decided, acting with the aim of cooperation, to intervene to combat uncontrolled immigration and trafficking in human beings and to ensure in terms of security the navigation of the central Mediterranean, the most beaten sea stretch and affected by migratory flows. With the Treaty of Friendship, Partnership and Cooperation between the Italian Republic and the Libyan Arab Socialist Grand Jamahiria, signed in Benghazi on 30 August 2008, the first steps in this direction have indeed been taken, manifesting the will to remedy, among other things, illegal immigration. The collaboration between the two countries in this direction has seen, in fact, the promotion of joint patrols of the Libyan coasts through the cession of Italian motor boats to Libya already from 2007, whose extensions have seen similarly in 2010 the cession of four naval units from the Italian Government to the Libyan Government. After the Libyan civil war, after, among other things, the aforementioned naval units were damaged, in the period after Gaddafi's death, it continued on the line of cooperation and on the strengthening of the friendship relationship between Italy and Libya and in 2012, with the Declaration of Tripoli, the Italian Government, in the person of President Monti, again confirmed the will to support with joint actions and with its political support the process of internal peace in the country. Continuing, it is with the Memorandum of Understanding on cooperation in the field of development, the fight against illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, smuggling and the strengthening of the security of borders between the State of Libya and the Italian Republic, signed by the President of the Presidential Council Fayez al-Sarraj and by the President of the Council Paolo Gentiloni Silveri in Rome on 2 February 2017, who wanted to continue on this line by sanctioning the common commitment to the stabilisation of the country and the Government of the flows of illegal migrants and of contrast to illicit trafficking. This brief historical excursus, which has seen me briefly mention the main points of the relationship of cooperation and partnership that distinguishes from 2009 the relations between Italy and Libya, is necessary to highlight that the conversion of the decree-law, today under examination of the Assembly, aims to continue in the same direction that the Governments that preceded us, although in different situations and with less vigour, have traced. The aims of this decree are, in fact, to provide additional tools to contain the now uncontrollable migratory flows, also with a view to protecting the external borders and preventing potential risks of entry into our country of people close to or directly part of terrorist organizations that could undermine the security of our country. If this objective is to be pursued, which sees cooperation as a key and indispensable element for the resolution and the government of migratory flows, which are no longer manageable for Italy, such a decree is, in fact, not only necessary but obligatory. The current fleet at the disposal of the Libyan coastguard is in no way sufficient to ensure adequate border control and adequate assistance in the frequent cases of need, which are sadly increasingly recorded and which this Government absolutely wants to prevent. The four patrol boats sold from Italy and, precisely, from the Berlusconi Government and therefore from that Gentiloni Silveri were disused. The ten class 500 boats that will come with such agreement yielded to Libya, of the length of ten meters and in fiberglass, as well as the two naval units class Corrubia of 27 meters and capable of reaching the 43 knots and autonomy, at cruise speed of 21 knots, of 800 miles are definitely of the necessary means to act with efficiency and effectiveness in the attainment of the intended objectives. This measure is, then, even more just and worthy of appreciation if we consider that Italy will thus assist with an important contribution the control of a maritime border that is not only Italian but European. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u48	Senator Santillo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law which is being converted pursues the need to increase the operational capacity of the Libyan coastal authorities through the free transfer of ten naval units to the corps of the coastal port-guard captainships and two to the Finance Guard, to be allocated to the control and security activities for the fight against illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, and to the rescue and safeguard activities of human life at sea. The complexity of the current dynamics of the migration phenomenon and the need to contain its pressure, with particular reference to flows from Libya, also with a view to the protection of the external borders and the prevention of potential risks of infiltration by entities adjacent to terrorist organisations, have led the Government to adopt this measure under conditions of urgency. Libya has for years been the main port of departure of migratory flows that through the Mediterranean are trying to reach Italy and Europe. Since the regime of dictator Muammar Gaddafi has been overthrown, i.e. since October 2011, the North African country has never managed to make a democratic transition. Human traffickers take advantage of this situation of political and economic instability, with the result that migrants are constantly being abused. The measure is part of the existing bilateral agreements and cooperation between Italy and Libya: Treaty of Benghazi, Declaration of Tripoli and especially the Memorandum of Understanding of 2 February 2017, which, among other points, established the strengthening of security at the borders between the State of Libya and the Italian Republic. This agreement has made it possible to make available to the coastguard of the Ministry of Defence and the bodies for coastal safety of the Italian Ministry of Interior Libyan motor vehicles, as well as to provide for the maintenance and training of personnel. For its part, the European Union has been training Libyan Coast Guard officers since October 2016 under Operation Sophia, launched in July 2015 with the aim of countering the illegal activity of human traffickers along the Central Mediterranean. To date, 188 Libyan officers have completed the training. It has been achieved that, since July 2017, landings in Italy have progressively decreased, so that, from 1 January to 24 May 2018, 10,808 migrants have arrived on the Italian coasts, of which 7,103 have come from Libya. This is a decrease of almost 78 percent compared to data for the same period of 2017. Moreover, in the first three months of 2018, the Libyan Coast Guard carried out more than 4,100 rescue operations at sea in the Central Mediterranean, between Libya and Italy, reaching a figure equal to almost twice the 2,500 rescues carried out by the ships of the NGOs in the same period. It is therefore essential to follow up measures which have proved extremely useful. Pending that the Libyan maintenance component acquires the necessary skills to ensure the operation of the twelve naval units to be transferred, the decree-law provides for the supply of logistic support until 31 December 2018. It is a priority to ensure adequate safety standards for navigation in the Mediterranean Sea, in order to properly manage the dynamics of migratory phenomena, especially those from Libya, which have seen Italy for years at the forefront. Between 2014 and 2017, that is, in the four years in which the flow from North Africa has been more active, 623,000 people have arrived by sea in Italy, so our country certainly has a know-how on the rescue activities at sea that must necessarily be transmitted to others for a fruitful collaboration in order to combat in a truly effective way the phenomenon. This is not a measure to be considered decisive, but it is only a contribution, a support for a more complex and global vision that this Government is guaranteeing with its own work, with determination and zeal. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u50	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vattuone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u51	Mr President, Mr Undersecretaries, ladies and gentlemen, the measure is, as my previous colleagues have pointed out, part of a substantial strategy of continuity with what has been done by previous governments, aimed at bringing stability to the country. Correctly the rapporteur, as well as the two previous colleagues, did in part the chronicle of the bilateral relations between Italy and Libya, starting from the 2008 Treaty of Friendship, which was oriented and strengthened the links between the two countries, to arrive at the Memorandum of Understanding on cooperation in the field of development, the fight against illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, smuggling and the strengthening of the security of the borders between the State of Libya and the Italian Republic, signed in Rome, by the President of the Presidential Council recognized by the UN, al-Sarraj, and by the President of the Council Paolo Gentiloni Silveri, on 2 February 2017. This Memorandum sets out the common commitments for the stabilisation of the country, the government of the flows of illegal migrants and the fight against illicit trafficking. In this context, therefore, the measure we are discussing today in strengthening our technical support directly in the Libyan territorial waters, in order to effectively combat the illicit trafficking of human beings, however, with the transfer of naval units and the strengthening of the Libyan Coast Guard is addressed only the final part of a much more complex problem of the migratory phenomenon in place in the central Mediterranean. Among other things - as the rapporteur also mentioned - there is a strong concern that comes from the risk on the terrorist threat, because the military defeat in Raqqa and Mosul, which were, in the collective imagination, the capitals of ISIS, does not weaken this threat. Foreign fighters wander themselves, they are in circulation, and there is a kind of diaspora that risks crossing migratory flows. So there is certainly a potential risk of infiltration, because the runaway is looking for the easiest way you can take. There is therefore also a risk that Libya will become a safe landing place for terrorists and foreign fighters fleeing the war. The stabilisation of the country and its borders, therefore, is crucial, not only to counter the illicit trafficking of human beings, which is certainly a very important problem for our country, but also to fight terrorism. Therefore, ship transfers are good but, at the same time, I believe that we are all aware that a complex crisis such as the one linked to migration flows can only be tackled with a multidimensional strategy, which must also include a framework of agreements in the European context and with the countries of origin of flows, as has been said. The possibility of repatriating more regular immigrants, however, always clashes with the backwardness of the countries of origin and the problem - let's face it - is always that. Returning to the 2017 Memorandum, it is appropriate to underline the many activities and initiatives implemented in the final stages of previous Governments in the direction of greater control of flows. The previous colleague has given me some numbers, I will provide others: in the last year, the activity carried out by Italy in Libya has brought down the number of deaths at sea from 4,150 to 1,258, as well as from 1 July 2017 to 30 April last (to give a term) 104,000 people have arrived less than the previous period. The transfer of ships is good, but we must not abandon the network built, for example, with the mayors of the cities of Libya most involved in human trafficking and with the tribes (the so-called desert guardians). We must therefore support, also financially and in general, all those regions affected by the phenomenon of emigration. We must also bear in mind the agreements that have been made on the sub-Saharan border in Libya, therefore with the countries of Chad, Mali and Niger, in order to strengthen the ability to control the maritime and land borders of those Countries, involving also the International Organization for Migration (IMN) and UNHCR, which play a very important and decisive role in the Libyan territory with regard to human rights, just remember that they have managed and assisted 25,000 voluntary returns. In this sense, we must recall the need to improve the visibility standards of the centres of stay in Libya, where these desperate people who cross the desert are welcomed. Again in this context - I would like to remind you - it is necessary to mention the bilateral support mission in the Republic of Niger, which we approved at the end of the last parliamentary term and which has been very opposed in the past. Now I do not want to be controversial, but it is hoped that a reading of the facts will prevail which will record the usefulness of this mission, which is fundamental to the control of immigration. Then there are, again, all readmission agreements with countries with a strong migratory vocation. Some arrangements have already been made, in particular with Algeria, Gambia, Niger, Nigeria and Senegal, just to mention a few. In fact, we know - we have said it several times and colleagues also remembered it - that in Africa there is a fundamental game for security, where there is a huge demographic growth, since, as we know, according to estimates, in 2050 the population will double, touching the figure of two billion people. All this in order to say that it is necessary to be able to articulate a defence and security policy that cannot ignore the ability to weave international relations and therefore it is necessary an approach less marked by exemplary gestures, moreover made on the skin of people, in our opinion not effective in the long term, because immigration, as I think we all know, is a structural phenomenon and cannot be managed through emerging policies. The issue of immigration certainly continues to play a leading role in the political scenario of our country: the issue of the management of migratory flows is certainly dramatic and is based on the media, especially in recent months. It is a serious problem and we are aware that, beneath the surface of this great crisis, the problem lies in the serious instability that surrounds today's context and in the state of international relations. I do not make it long, but it is essential to reason on what is the most appropriate answer. The reality tells us that today's crises require unattainable capabilities for a single state and, as a result, an approach that is at least likely cannot fail to operate multilaterally and build a political strategy before it is operational. The position of the Democratic Party will be expressed in an explanation of vote by my colleague Senator Alfieri, but with these presuppositions the provision fits in a context that we share, although it must be recalled, as I said, the need to implement and strengthen other important fundamental functions, which are at the basis of the Memorandum signed in 2017 by our country, which I recalled. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u52	Senator Rufa is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished representatives of the Government, today the Assembly is asked to convert Decree-Law No 84 of 10 July 2018, which is to make explicit Italy's will, collaboration and honesty towards a world that suffers and asks for help and towards Europe itself. Our government has written in the contract that at the tables of the European negotiations it would play a leading role, with the aim of enforcing the rights and duties of the European Union and we are doing so. The decisive, stubborn and unshakable character of our Minister for the Interior is guaranteeing respect and sudden cooperation from European states that until yesterday were short-sighted to the problem. In fact, we have reopened a selfishly closed conscience, so that there is a fair and responsible distribution of the relocation of asylum seekers. Only through our loyal political and moral strength are we today listened to, considered and respected. The boredom and menephregism also selfishly assumed by some European leaders are now referred to the sender. In a loyal way, perhaps even hard for some, our leader Matteo Salvini interpreted the will of the Italians, that is to offer love to the peoples who suffer, but demanding common commitment, common rules and serious and fast answers. This organizational strategy follows on from the 2008 Benghazi Treaty, to which we recognise the foresight of those who then saw Libya as a partner to cooperate in bilateral agreements that determine the fight against terrorism and crime, the fight against illicit trafficking, especially drugs, and illegal immigration, as well as an ally on the North African shores, a supplier of energy, gas and oil. We appreciate the strategic continuity, even if of weak effectiveness on the European tables, of the previous Government; therefore, you too of the opposition have the courage and the correctness to appreciate the work of our Executive and the role assumed towards a Europe that laid on Italy all economic, political, legal, humanitarian and social responsibilities and that was selfishly hiding behind pacts, treaties and signed agreements, with the awareness of the enormous disadvantages caused. I am also thinking of the role played by self-proclaimed, legitimate and self-referential private organisations, organizations without any obligation to publicise the budget and which do not reveal with transparency funders and aims. I am referring to a government that has the merit of working to make us a feeling that unfortunately has been lacking for too long, that of Homeland; a homeland that counts and makes itself felt in Europe. Therefore we proudly claim the will to give free twelve naval units and we are proud to provide support, training and operational education, to provide sacrifice of Italian men and women, training and financial coverage for a total expenditure of 1.15 million euros. Let us give a tangible sign by adding twelve operational units to the four old and limited Libyan patrol boats. In order to really save human lives and really fight death traffickers, we need to create a contrast already in the starting places, because there is the dome and because preventing an insecure hull from leaving means avoiding tragedies at sea. We in Italy welcome the real refugees willingly and without treaties; the business of the co-operatives of the unworthy and rich in profit must end. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] Today we help Libyan institutions, not only with money but with means, training, men and advanced technologies that will effectively suppress the wickedness of unpunished traffickers. This provision also costs us the awareness of sacrificing the twelve units, taking them off to other commitments of our territory, but the hunger for humanity and peace makes us strong, proud and confident. We ask not to exploit guilt and not to wish ourselves some tragedy so that we can hypocritically lift the finger and say "I said "I did." There is little to say, in fact, about our honesty and loyalty. Our government will never let people die and honor the victims of the sea, punishing the system of the infamous ferrymen of death and those who have earned blood money. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u54	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u55	Mr President, Decree-Law No 84, fired on July 2nd, previews the cession from Italy to Libya of twelve ships to be allocated to the safety of navigation in the Mediterranean; a cession for free of charge of motor boats in endowment to the Corps of the captains of port, to the Coast Guard and to the Guard of finance, in order to guarantee in particular the correct management of the current dynamics of the migratory phenomenon, with particular reference to the flows coming from Libya, assigning priority, in the first place, to the need to counter the traffics of human beings and, in second place, immediately after, to the safeguard of human life at sea. The necessary funds are provided to ensure the maintenance of the units and the carrying out of training and training activities of the Libyan staff; there is a total allocation of about 2.5 million euros through funds that are in reserve of the ministries concerned. It should be remembered that in the past agreements that provided for this kind of support from our country to Libya have already been made available. On 29 December 2007 a protocol was signed to deal with the phenomenon of illegal immigration, accompanied by a technical-operational protocol signed that provided for a joint patrol with the transfer in use of patrol boats and activities of training, training, assistance and maintenance of the means. It was followed by an additional technical and operational protocol, signed on 29 December 2009. The periodic decrees-law to extend the international missions have authorized, from the bill n. 8 of 2008, the participation of the staff of the Italian Finance Guard to the bilateral missions in Libya to support the Libyan Coast Guard and the expense for the ordinary maintenance and the efficiency of the naval units yielded from the Italian Government to the Libyan government protempore. Between the end of 2009 and the beginning of 2010 four naval units were sold. It is recalled that these units were damaged during the Libyan civil war and were brought back to Italy to be repaired; after that, they were guarded by the Finance Guard Corps in the Miseno area, and then returned to Libya in April 2017, while maintenance activities were started for the restoration of six more units. The units provided by the decree-law under consideration are ten twelve-metre coastal patrol boats and two twenty-seven-metre ships, indicated to intercept boats loaded with migrants and to proceed to rescue operations. These ships are able to return shipwrecked only to Libyan ports, but Libya today, unfortunately, cannot yet offer, according to the legislation, a so-called safe landing port. Even the most recent reports of the United Nations and the judges of Ragusa and Palermo in their judgments exclude, under the current conditions, that Libya can offer safe ports of disembarkation, also taking into account the precarious political situation and the failure to subscribe to the Geneva Convention on Refugees. In this sense, therefore, Italy's commitment to promoting the stabilisation and political normalization of the country seems urgent. In May 2009 - we must remember - the then Italian Government, which had implemented the above-mentioned agreements, was sentenced by the Court of Europe of Human Rights (judgment 23 February 2012) for rejections considered illegitimate, carried out by the Guardia di Finanza towards Tripoli, because - it is said in the judgment - they constituted violation of Article 3 (torture and inhuman treatment) of the European Convention of Human Rights, because Libya did not offer any guarantee of treatment according to the international standards of asylum seekers and refugees and exposed them to forced repatriation. Moreover, the Court condemned Italy for violating the prohibition of collective expulsion (for the second time in almost fifty years) and for not offering refugees any effective form of reparation for the violations suffered (Article 13 of the European Convention). This is because, once they were brought back to Libya, they were no longer able to resort to their condition. The decision was therefore a complete denial of the justifications put forward at the time by Italy in support of the practice of refusal in international waters of refugees and illegal migrants from North Africa. To date, unfortunately, the Libyan Coast Guard does not have the means and organizational arrangements to effectively safeguard human life at sea. Its research and rescue capacity is far below the international standards imposed by the conventions and regulations of the International Maritime Organisation (IMO). The support, in terms of means and training, that the Italian Government offers today to the Libyan Coast Guard will not suffice to change this reality and to provide an effective guarantee on the relief capabilities of the Libyan Guard from today to tomorrow. Just as the mere recognition of a Libyan SAR zone does not in itself imply the automatic qualification of safe port, without forgetting the difficulties of opening hotspots in the Sahel countries, both politically and humanitarianly. It is useless to hide the difficulty and complexity of a problem of not easy resolution, but that the Italian Government will necessarily have to face with courage, time and patience. Improving the work of the Libyan Coast Guard is only a small step on a long road. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u56	He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as Senator De Bertoldi said just now, Brothers of Italy supports the objective of the Italian Government to help and strengthen the fight against the trafficking of human beings and the boats of death that depart from the Libyan coasts and cross the Mediterranean. Therefore, we are in favour of the aid that this decree-law offers Libya, in execution, among other things, of agreements already made by previous governments. Of course, the situation is very complicated and the crisis is very complex, so we believe that the only real solution is that of the naval blockade. To prevent the deaths in the Mediterranean, boats of death must be prevented from leaving. This is, in our opinion, the only way to end this tragedy at last. [[Applause from the FdI and L-SP Groups]] As the Prodi Government did in 1997 and 1998 against Albania. This, however, ladies and gentlemen, must not mean that the Italian Coast Guard should be rid of important and fundamental means for the tasks that our Harbour offices are already carrying out with difficulty of instruments and resources. For this reason, we have tabled two amendments, signed by Senator Urso, to make it clear that the Government is committed to replacing as soon as possible the means that have been taken from our Coast Guard. These are important and fundamental means because - I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen - three patrol boats are taken from Puglia and two from Sicily and these patrol boats, as well as the others, play a fundamental role in safeguarding our borders. In the same way, I would like to remind all my colleagues that in the Province from which I come there is Goro, which is the largest marine of the Adriatic for number of registered boats (about 1,300), where the only available patrol boat has been taken away to be sent to Libya. In this regard, three weeks ago, as soon as the news came out, I submitted a written question, but I have not yet had the pleasure of reading the Government's reply. I read the response of some members of the League in the local press, who said that, as for the only patrol boat that was taken from our Coast Guard, from Goro's office, which was fundamental to the fight against illegal activities, illegal fishing and safe sea operation (I do not see how a boat in difficulty can be rescued in the upper Adriatic with the only dinghy left at Goro's office), I did not have to worry, because the Government had already decided to supply the very modern patrol boats to which these ten (plus two) boats were taken. Well, unfortunately, the reality is another one, because the Government rejected Adolfo Urso's amendment, according to which this commitment would have been written in black and white: today we only have promises, but the promises are not enough. The reality is quite different. The reality is that Goro's office, like other offices, to date are already more than thirty days that it has no naval means to carry out the rescue at sea and to counter the illegal activities that it must fight. Good sense would like that before replacing and sending away a means - defined obsolete while in reality it is not so, because the medium was very efficient and was sent to the yard only to delete the writings and identification numbers of the Coast Guard - before and not after, it gave the alternative to ensure the efficiency and functionality of our Coast Guard. So we agree in principle, but we do not agree with the method, because, I repeat, we cannot, in this way, unleash the already precarious instruments available to our Coast Guard and our offices. I therefore call on the rapporteur and the Government, on behalf of the Brothers of Italy, to reflect on the amendment that we have proposed and to give an opinion in favour of its approval. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u58	Senator Iwobi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, my fellow Senators and Senators, today's decree-law, which has already been dealt with in the Foreign Commission, is a necessary measure to follow up the work of the Government and the Minister of the Interior on the management of migratory flows, the subject of the bilateral agreements signed in the past with poor results. The free transfer of patrol boats to Libya aims to strengthen cooperation with the Libyan Government in order to counter illegal immigration channels and human trafficking. Thanks to this decree-law also Libya will be able to contribute to a rescue at sea that is more effective and that is aimed at preventing possible shipwrecks in the Mediterranean Sea. The safeguarding of human lives must always be the first priority of any political action. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] In fact, we are aware that politics is not based on feelings or first impressions, but on realism, that is, that ability to read and interpret the real situations in order to arrive at a solution of quality, that solution, realism and capacity that is demonstrating today the current Government and its majority, thanks to the targeted interventions decided by the Minister of the Interior, Matteo Salvini. Not only that: cooperation with the Libyan Government will also lead to discouraging trips to the Mediterranean Sea and, consequently, also trafficking in human beings in North Africa and therefore the travels of migrants who leave sub-Saharan Africa and from the Horn of Africa, restoring and finally respecting human dignity. I would also like to point out that this decree-law goes in the direction of also empowering Libya. At the same time, it is an act that is due to a common objective: illegal channels that promote trafficking in human beings must be permanently closed. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] We absolutely cannot accept that these risky journeys of death are permitted. It is unacceptable that a political refugee, already persecuted in his country of origin, should risk his life in order to obtain protection that is his right, as we have always argued. [[Applause from the L-SP Group and Senator Romagnoli]] To this end, it will be necessary to allow real refugees to take advantage of a legal channel to protect their security and to allow an early analysis or at least a first filter of asylum applications, already before the use of that death channel. For economic migrants, on the other hand, it is right and proper to raise awareness among the countries of origin in order to prevent them from becoming victims of trafficking in human beings and risking their lives in order to often end up in situations of social and economic instability: there are legal channels that respond to the needs of the labour market precisely to prevent precariousness. In addition, the measure provides additional tools to reduce migratory pressure, including with a view to the protection of external borders and the prevention of potential risks of infiltration by actors contiguous to terrorist organisations, organised crime and illegal immigration. I therefore conclude, Mr President, by saying that, for these reasons, we believe that the measure must be implemented quickly in order to continue on a political line that brings to the heart respect for the rules and cooperation to protect life and human dignity. I therefore consider the form of the decree-law as appropriate. We broadly agree and hope that the decree-law will be converted today. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u60	He's enlisted to speak Senator Aimi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u61	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today is a special time in this House, because we are going to adopt a measure that I believe will go in the right direction. There has been a wide debate in the Commission and I want to thank President Vito Petrocelli, both for his grace and for the deepening and the skills that have been demonstrated by the entire Commission: we have distorted every aspect of this decree-law: an act, I mean immediately, of great generosity that Italy carries out towards Libya, with the free transfer of twelve important boats, but it is also an act in the interest of Italy itself, and I would say Europe, because we finally contrast with illegal immigration, in line with what was also the programme of the center-right. I am pleased that there have been speeches here today with different nuances, but that everyone is absolutely convinced of the goodness of this decree-law. We say this because we have the deep conviction that it is finally time to say enough, once and for all, to the dead at sea: our Mediterranean has turned into a cemetery! We must have the courage to highlight the importance of combating these departures. All those who have preceded me have highlighted it, even with emphasis and force, and following, I dare say, a real element: we have had thousands and thousands of deaths in the Mediterranean. Did this happen by accident? Above all, in front of the Libyan coasts it almost seems that we are facing the Bermuda triangle. Was it a case? Why did these sinking of boats happen, which are absolutely not suitable for the transport of human beings (otherwise, coming from China on a route that we know perfectly)? We mentioned Operation Sophia. Admiral Credendi in the previous legislature, heard in the Foreign and Defence Commissions, had to say that in this type of operation there is also the possibility to control the boats and to do checks on those boats. So, since we have the opportunity to have the Government present, I think it would be appropriate to start patrolling with our national boats, but also with the foreign ones that are part of this operation, and start a contrast to verify why these dinghy, all grey, that we see in the television images, arrive in the ports of Libya. A little attention, then. I realize that, probably, this decree-law - we all know - will not resolve the problem of departures. For this reason, I believe that other vessels should also be used; we should probably envisage the use, with Italy, of different vessels. I am referring, for example, to recreational boats of 13, 14 or 15 meters, equipped with two engines, that can allow patrolling the Libyan coasts, because we must never forget that we are facing 1,770 kilometers of coast, not easy to patrol. With these boats, then, we can do so much. I hope that the times of crew preparation will also be swift. I realize the difficulty, especially for the use of the two boats from the Finance Guard. I am referring to those 27 meters, which are equipped not only with sophisticated radar systems that can be very useful, but also have advanced technology, especially in the hull. A colleague, before, recalled the possibility of reaching up to 43 miles, which is a considerable speed for a boat of that range, which has a cruising speed of 21 knots, but manages to maintain even 43 miles. We can therefore act effectively in those areas. As has been said and repeated, we have an exodus, which is before everyone's eyes, biblical. Someone said, "Dreams don't stop." But if the dream is that, that I said at the beginning of my intervention, to die at sea to arrive in this land, I think we must, with great lucidity and with great realism look at what the situation of Italy is at this particular moment: it is a land that cannot give work, given the oppressive economic crisis that our economy lives. We must therefore begin to consider the possibility of intervention, for example by opening hotspots in southern Libya and also to proceed with identifications, because - excuse me colleagues - in any civil country, when a person wants to enter, the least he has to do is to provide documents to let know who he is, where he comes from and what he does. There are even nations (such as Australia) that require a particularly thorough medical certification. You need to know where they come from, have the criminal certificates and know the criminal slopes to evaluate who's coming from. Otherwise, the risk is indeed to welcome even common delinquency. We have seen that, unfortunately, out of 100 arriving, more than 90 would have no title and no reason to stay in Italy. If we really want to help those who have the right - and we have a duty to welcome those who are in certain situations that are very serious: mothers, children, those who really flee from the war - we must begin to put a strong contrast with those who come here very often simply to plunder the social state. That's the truth. We want to do this - and I think we can - all together, even in this House with this very important beginning of operation, which will certainly not be stopped here. Our vice-president Tajani, during a recent meeting, spoke of a great Marshall plan for Africa, to which all the nations that have the opportunity to do so should contribute; to try to help those countries to start working, in particular, in agriculture. To start these operations - as we said before, of course the contrast with these boats is not enough - we should then also equip Libya with radar control units and especially with drones that manage to intercept the boats that leave. We have to start doing this. We naturally voted in favour, even in accordance with the principles we followed, those of the 2008 Benghazi Treaty, which came into force in 2009 and which bore the signatures of Gaddafi and the then Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, who had advocated what would happen. From that moment on, the landings began to shrink. Let us also pay attention to another thing: today it is said that the landings have decreased. It is not true, the landings did not decrease; they simply grew less quickly. That is a bit of what inflation is saying: it is said that inflation decreases when it actually grows less quickly. Landings have also grown less quickly, but they have grown: we have 650,000 illegal immigrants in Italy and of course we should also start thinking about repatriation operations. The Treaty signed at the time by President Berlusconi had even put an end to a long-standing dispute with Libya (you will also remember the day of revenge at the time of Gaddafi). Since then, we have been able to make an effective contribution to rejections. Starting with the conclusion, I would like to thank the Subsecretaries present because an agenda signed by me and my colleagues Malan, Craxi and Mallegni (who contributed the whole Group) recognised an important part, which concerns Article 13 of the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation of Benghazi, that is, the possibility to compensate, or better still to repay, our companies - and there are more than 100 - who had suffered damage for more than 233 million euros. That is a very good thing, and I would like to thank the Government for having accepted our agenda in the Commission on this matter. In conclusion, I anticipate that we will now vote in favour of the conversion into law of this decree-law. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u62	Senator De Falco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u63	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law that we are about to convert has been welcomed, as we have seen, by all political forces, both by majority and opposition. On the other hand, it is part of the hive of continuity with what has also been done in previous legislation. It is a measure that provides important assistance to the different Libyan structures - it seems to be at least three - which, in various ways, are competent and responsible for the police and maritime rescue. In general terms, however, we must take note of the situation, in my opinion, and reflect on one point: we must ask ourselves whether it is appropriate to continue to interrogate with al-Sarraj alone, or whether it is better to extend the interlocation to other actors. It is not useless, in fact, to remember that as early as July last year French President Macron had invited both al-Sarraj and Haftar to Paris. Subsequently, in May of this year, France convened a new conference which saw the participation, as well as of al-Sarraj and Haftar, also of the President of the Chamber of Representatives Salek and of the President of the Council of State al-Mishri. France therefore highlights a wide-ranging strategy compared to the somewhat narrower one adopted by Italy in recent years, where we had concentrated only on the - decisive, certainly - figure of al-Sarraj, neglecting the other subjects that instead could have an important role also in countering the traffic of those who exploit the tragedy of migrants and shipwrecks. With the decree-law in question - it has been remembered - ten coastal naval units from 11 meters and two naval units from 27 meters are yielded. The ten small units are marine police units that the Coast Guard and the Harbour office use for surveillance and these can sail with calm sea or sea just formed, while the two offshore patrollers of the Finance are units that have great autonomy. An appropriate and appropriate period of familiarisation of Libyan crews for the operation of these patrol boats is also provided. The small ones are basically motorboats, so there is no need for a long phase of familiarization: twenty-eight days are more than enough. The other units, the large ones, are quite similar to those already provided, and therefore even in this case there is no need for specific familiarization. It is also welcome and likely that what the Government says about the fact that the free transfer of this unit to Libya - I address my colleagues who referred to a possible problem in this regard before - will not reduce the operation of the Coast Guard, because they are units, however, substantially arrived at the end of the operating life, so that it is indeed necessary to restore before the transfer. These units were already expected to be replaced. At present, among other things, they are not - except perhaps a few sporadic cases - employed in operational tasks. I think this should reassure us, because the Coast Guard is not going to be weakened by its operational capacity. However, other factors must also be taken into account, in my view. Firstly, we have seen that migrants live in the terror and despair of the possibility of being brought back, where, as independent investigations have testified, many of them have suffered torture and ferocious violence, as has been said... [[Call the president back.]] Excuse me, ma'am, but I don't have five minutes? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's five, and when there's one missing, as usual, we point him out. De Falco (M5S). I was saying that many of them have suffered cruel torture and violence, also because Libya entrusts the management of relief to the same authorities that then bring migrants to the notorious detention centers and that country does not, as has been said, offer guarantees for the safety of intercepted migrants or shipwrecks saved at sea, nor does it allow reception and access to a asylum procedure. In addition, although a Libyan SAR area is formally established, as was pointed out by my colleague, in order for the relief service to be effective, it is necessary that the State is able to ensure continuous operation, coordinated and effective, of the SAR services, that it establishes a centre and subcentres of relief and coordination and that it has adequate staff quantitatively and qualitatively (which is being done but is not yet completed). All the service must be integrated in a specific regulatory environment, so the transfer of the motor vehicles to the Libyans is a first step to which must be added a series of initiatives and measures aimed at creating a flow - as was also recommended - regulated and safe of migrants to Europe, to which humanitarian corridors for asylum seekers will have to be flanked. In another respect, the economic data must be taken into account. In other words, it should be noted that migrants' remittances to their countries of origin currently far exceed the development contributions allocated by Europe. It therefore appears necessary to reverse this relationship. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. De Falco (M5S). I'll finish. Only in this way will it be possible to reduce pressure on maritime and land borders by coordinating the management of human flows and economic flows. We all have Josefa's terrified gaze in our eyes and we have to understand that that terror is also beyond fear of dying at sea. The party is aware of putting its life at risk, but it is certain that, from where it starts, there is no possibility of life. In conclusion, we are faced with a decree-law that has many positive aspects and must quickly be converted into law. However, it is not enough yet. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u64	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in his speech, the rapporteur and President of the Commission for Foreign Affairs, emigration - as has been done in many of the other speeches - has rightly stressed the sense of continuity of the decree-law in question with respect to previous decisions and policies, which come from far away, more or less from the 2008-2009 period. On the contrary, it is precisely this continuity, in an increasingly heavy and increasingly exasperated context, which, in my opinion, must be interrupted and rethought. It must be interrupted, because if we go a little under diplomatic language, we are not at all cooperating with the Government al-Sarraj, which does not exist: we cannot cooperate with an entity that does not exist. You know perfectly well, like me, that the Al-Sarraj Government does not even control the building it is in; you know perfectly well that Libya is made up of two states, three parliaments and hundreds of militias, which are the only ones who, in struggle with one another, control the territory. So, in fact, we are - indeed, you are - continuing to strengthen the militias, which will divide these patrol boats, which do not serve to save anyone: they are motor boats of about 10 meters and do not get rescued at sea in this way, as is evident and as the colleague recalled. So you are simply strengthening the Libyan militias, which will divide these patrol boats, as already the black oil trade (which seems to be of no interest to anyone) and the drug trade (which actually affects even less) and other illicit trafficking, which are not managed by Haftar, nor by al-Sarraj, but by Libyan militias, with very volatile and very fragile alliances. You made an agreement with the Sabratha militias, namely with Dabbashi (one of the Sabratha militias) and the result was the civil war in Sabratha, the escape of Dabbashi and the move of the departure places from Sabratha to Garabulli and Zuwara. You really think you're gonna drain an ocean with a bucket? That is not the case, and I believe that the real fight against traffickers can only be done with the opening of legal channels of controlled entry. So, the term you coined - which seems derogatory to those who think like me on the legal channels of controlled entry - that is, the term "buonist" does not concern me. I am a legalist, I am one who thinks that the rule, law and international conventions are the only way of civil coexistence. I quote a third element: the international conventions do not speak of safe ports, but of safe places and Libya is not a safe place: the diplomats do not go there, the ambassadors do not go (except ours), the Farnesina advises not to go there and just the other day the Vice Premier of al-Sarraj has fled from Tripoli for security problems, towards Benghazi and Turkey (one of the countries that does not require visas). Furthermore, the European Court of Human Rights, even the European Commission and the univocal testimonies of hundreds, thousands of refugees, who have only one story to do: rape, violence and torture, tell us that this is not a safe place. You've seen them the way I did, you've seen the reports, the photos, et cetera. Even if you have the heart to send people who run away to these places, I don't think it's a great prospect, a great policy and not even a great vision. We're talking about helping Libya. Of course, but it depends on how you mean it, on what you want to help, whether the militias or anything else, but certainly ours is far from the eyes, far from the heart with the expulsion of ships of non-governmental organizations also helps this total schizophrenia. Finally, if in addition to the suffering and pain of these people who have the only demerit of having a skin of a different color than ours, but have red blood like all of us and have children - for the truth - like all of you, if we were to deny these people, we would spare ourselves insults. You know as I do that there is no racket to hold; you know as I am not on a cruise; you know as I do that there are no sea taxis. [[Applause from the PD Group]] ; you know how I am and how our grandparents escape from misery and hunger, seeking a better chance of life. Then don't tell me about excellent centres, because there is one under construction by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), still not even open, for 160 places. It's not even open. The others are not even visitable: nine or ten can be visited by UNHCR, but the hundreds of other places deprived of torture, rape and violence cannot be visited by anyone. I don't think it's a great policy. Instead, I think that the opening of legal channels, the opening of different exchanges, our request for the approval of international conventions would be more useful, more effective. Stop denying that we need it, however, but I do not want to insist on this: the 6 million legal immigrants today produce 8% of GDP, they are net contributors to the INPS. [[Comments from the L-SP Group.]] Isn't that right? Ask Confindustria, CONFAPI, the Moressa Foundation, the ISMU Foundation (Initiatives and studies on multiethnicity). You don't empty an ocean with a bucket. Mobility is global and you will certainly not stop it. [[Comments from the L-SP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u66	Colleagues, what's going on? We are in general discussion and a colleague is speaking.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u67	[[Senator Romeo's comments. Protests from the PD Group]] Don't make me call you back individually. BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). Colleagues, I know that everything in this House is hostile to me, but I was counting on your personal democratic courtesy. It is not possible for a single or very few voices who disagree to get threats, insults and disrespect in this House too. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I have concluded, Mr President, but I remind you that you are not in the south corner, but in the highest House of democratic institutions in this country! You must set an example of institutional composure, respect for different opinions. [[Senator protests Simone Bossi and Romeo.]] Hold back the insults. He said someone much more important than me that insults qualify those who do them, not those who receive them. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u68	VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. Bravo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Fazzolari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Senator Bonino for raising her attention to a debate that otherwise risked being too quiet. The Brothers of Italy Group is absolutely in agreement with this measure which, in a small part, also strengthens the Libyan Coast Guard, as a result, partially limits the departure of the boats and what follows. We are trying hard to make up for the damage that has been going on in recent years. In the last seven years the relations between us and Libya have completely changed: we have moved from the Benghazi Friendship and Cooperation Agreement of 2008, when Italy and Libya dialogued in all respects, controlled the borders and there were no landings in Italy, to a situation in 2011 of war on Libya, war on Gaddafi and total chaos in Libya, from which came the huge migratory flow to Italy. According to Viminale data, there have been 600,000 landings since 2011 to date, of which only 15% with the characteristics to qualify as a refugee under the Geneva Convention and just under 8% with the characteristics to fall within the subsidiary protection of the European Union. I repeat, the total number of refugees is around 15%, so 85% of people did not have this qualification: they may have escaped from prohibitive living conditions, certainly, but they were not refugees. How did we get to this? We arrived - the responsibilities will have to be clarified sooner or later - with an attack on Libya wanted by France to remove Italy's privileged relationship with Libya and very interesting energy agreements (this was what particularly worried France). The fact that France has carried out a hostile military act against Italy is a very serious fact, but it is even more serious that someone in those days supported the French intervention within our institutions up to the highest levels. This is a responsibility of betrayal of national interests which history will sooner or later require of those who carried it out in those years. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Pisani]] So this first step of strengthening the Libyan Coast Guard is positive. Brothers of Italy has always said this very clearly: the only solution is a naval blockade off the coast of Libya in agreement with the Libyan authorities; on this I join some considerations that have been made by my colleagues before me. Libya is not controlled by the Al-Sarraj Government and is not governed by the Government of Tripoli. I repeat, we need a naval blockade in accordance with the Libyan authorities and those who control the coasts from which the boats depart; a naval blockade that prevents the departure of the boats, the deaths at sea and the enormous injustice of uncontrolled immigration. Someone before me talked about activating legal immigration channels: that's all right. Immigration must be managed through legal channels. On the other hand, in Italy there is the system of decree flows, which each year determines how many people can enter and from which countries. The flow decrees have been reset in recent years and this is a shame because the whole share of immigration has been filled with illegal immigration. This is unacceptable, because it is not understood in the name of what a Peruvian who wanted to come to Italy could not do it because the decrees flowed did not allow it, while someone who paid the hullers could arrive illegally in Italy. Then you get to the grotesque situations of air flights that depart from Pakistan and Bangladesh to land in North Africa people, who then embark on the boats to arrive in Italy. The legal channels are fine, but I am missing the reason why we should open some of them in order to promote African immigration to Italy and not to do the same, for example, for Venezuelans. You've all heard Venezuela's dramatic situation. Venezuelans flee to neighbouring nations, first of all Colombia. Why shouldn't a Venezuelan have the right to direct channels? Why don't the Ukrainians have it? I would point out to those who talk about people fleeing from the war that in Nigeria, in the last thirty years, Boko Haram has been less dead than those that Ukraine has recorded, in the last four years, in the civil war. I remember that over the last four years Ukraine has had 10,000 deaths because of the civil war. Why should we open legal channels from North Africa and not from Ukraine, Venezuela and Peru? There is a suspicion that when immigrants come from countries of European and Christian origin, they must not be considered as such, whereas when immigrants come from African countries, possibly by an Islamic majority, then this is an immigration that we must promote. We are therefore in favour of a first timid step towards the naval blockade in order to control the coasts. The Brothers of Italy Group will vote in favour of the measure, although it has made two common sense observations that we regret not having been accepted. The first concerns the cost of this operation. The decree-law speaks of a total cost of 2,520,000 euros, but that is not correct. We asked the government, who provided us with the data on the inventory value of the means. The inventory value of the means amounts, in total, to 642,000 euros. Therefore, the value of the transaction is approximately EUR 3.100,000, which must be borne by the EU budget and not by the Italian budget. Indeed, in the agreement of the European Council of 28 and 29 June last, it was decided that the European Union will increase its support for the Sahel region and the Libyan Coast Guard... and - again - that the European Council recalls the need for Member States to ensure effective control of the European Union's external borders with financial and material support from the European Union. We are therefore respecting what was decided at the European Council on 28 and 29 June.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u70	Senator Fazzolari, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u71	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Yes, Mr. President. Compared to what the European Council has decided, the approximately EUR 3 million must be borne by the European budget and not by the Italian budget. With an amendment tabled, which I hope will be accepted, we are asking that the naval units we surrender be reinstated. From those who tell us that the problem is not there, we have not yet heard when and how this will be done. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u72	Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I shall return to the measure we are discussing today. This is a measure that pursues a strategy of continuity with what was done by the governments previously in office, that is to try to help the establishment of a state of Libya that we see, unfortunately, is very latent and that brings out situations of enormous criticality, like contrast to organized and international crime and to prevent potential risks of infiltration of subjects contiguous to terrorist organizations. In this regard, I would like to remind you that the Memorandum of Understanding, mentioned in the Decree-Law, signed by the previous President of the Council Gentiloni Silveri in February 2017, was also based on other important pillars that unfortunately remain to be implemented - and on which I hope the Government will put its hand in order to achieve what was hoped for in this agreement developed over the years - that is, the economic aid to the different Libyan realities on the ground and the raising of the standards of livability of the centers of permanence - about which my colleague Bonino spoke - where desperate people from the crossing of the Saharan desert are welcomed. However, I draw the attention of the Government to the fact that with this decree-law is addressed only the final problem of the most complex migratory phenomenon in place in the central Mediterranean, that is, the strengthening of the Libyan Coast Guard, which - as unfortunately understood from the latest events - has not implemented - as it is doing and it is usual to do our Italian Coast Guard, of which we are proud - the rescue of migrants, but rather avoided the rescue leaving at sea women and children, in violation of the basic rights of the sea. The commander-general of the Coast Guard, Admiral Giovanni Pettorino - whom I thank very much - in an interview reiterated that on this point the legislation is very clear: We continue to operate according to the international conventions of the sea. Basically, the person receiving the call must act immediately so that that person or ship in distress can receive useful help. And this, the commander of the Coast Guard reiterates, we have always done so and we continue to do so. That's the respect of people. Unfortunately, we see that the Libyan Coast Guard has not done so, and I believe that we will also have to work on this point because, in the area of personal rights, human rights are important. The decree-law to our examination arranges the cession free of charge to the Government of the State of Libya - we have spoken before and other colleagues have intervened - of these ten naval units, class 500 - that come from various Regions, three from Puglia and three from Sicily, and that they are currently in endowment to the Harbour offices of the Coast Guard - and also of other naval units in endowment of the Guard of finance. In particular it is said that these ships were close to the substitution and in storage, but they were however ships - especially the motor boats - useful in particular for those coasts in which they carried out service activities. I therefore ask the Government whether it is in a position to provide assurances on this matter, because I too have heard only words and I have also been in the Foreign Affairs Committee to raise this issue. Only in words was it said that the patrol boats were replaced, but I did not see formal and written acts. Also because in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, where an agenda has been presented on this subject, the representative of the Ministry of Public Works and of the territory, delegated to carry out this operation, did not give any response, giving a purely favourable opinion, without saying what funds would replace these patrol boats. So the news of the decree-law published in the Official Gazette on July 10 obviously raised a lot of worry in the different marineries, among which I repeat there are also those of Goro and Gorino that remain unguarded. As my colleague mentioned earlier, it is also a safety problem because there are 1,200 vessels and 1,200 fishermen who need to be guaranteed in their daily activities. The economy of a territory is therefore lacking. I therefore ask the Government - and I expect the agenda that I have presented on this point to be accepted - to have a clear and sure guarantee that these patrol boats will be replaced because otherwise our territory and our coasts will be penalised. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u74	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, it is not easy to intervene in this debate because of course, as always when we talk about such sensitive issues and when we talk about Libya, one thing is the vote that we are called to give, one thing is the analysis that we are called to make, one thing is the different sensibilities that pass through our Parliament. Let's start from the first point: the Group for the Autonomies will vote in favour of this decree-law because it is in continuity with the work of the previous governments and because it is right to equip the Libyan coastal control forces with naval equipment. That's right. Then, ladies and gentlemen, let us take a step forward: Senator Bonino reminded us that there is no Libyan status. Unfortunately, we all knew that there is no Libyan status in this House. We even know that there is a Government, that of Haftar, that with the collaboration of foreign and also European statualities has worked in recent years to arrive at a tripartition of Libya, although the international community has installed a Government that we have always supported, with Letta, with Renzi, with Gentiloni Silveri today with the Government Count in a spirit of continuity, because it was the Government legitimized by the UN. But does this government control Libya? Excuse me, we are not on jokes apart, we know very well that this Government does not control Libya. We know very well that neither do the other two governments. We know very well that there are municipal tribal subjects who have not by chance been at the center of the work that the Gentiloni Government has done in recent months. Silveri with Minister Minniti (and here we have in the Chamber Senator Pinotti who was part of that work that today, in continuity, is resumed by the Government Count). One thing then is the world that we want to live, one thing is the world that we live because foreign policy is not a gala lunch and we, unfortunately, have to deal with what there is not with what we would like there to be. I heard a few of my colleagues earlier who said that those who arrive did not have the documents. Excuse me, but do you want me to go ask Mogadishu for a criminal certificate when they start from realities that are devastated, without any status? [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD]] In the same way, we are not surprised, unfortunately, what Senator Bonino said that, if I may, it cannot be an element of division in this Parliament: we all know that human rights, as we conceive them, are not adequately respected in Libya. We know very well that in detention camps - sometimes we do not even know who owns them - the standard of human rights, as we interpret it, is not guaranteed. What, though, should the Government of a country like Italy do? What were previous governments to do? Let us not forget, in fact, and Minister Salvini also said this (I would have liked him to say it more but anyway I heard it, so he said it), that the work does not start from scratch because with Minister Pinotti and Minister Minniti we had already drastically reduced the landings. Is it good or bad to reduce landings? Colleagues, what do you want us to tell you? It is the only possible way today because we risk, if we do not follow the way of giving more order to the arrivals in our country, to see the birth of racism among the popular classes of this country that are threatened by the unconcluded arrival of migrants. It's not a problem of right or left, it's a problem of common sense. We all know that we are proud of what the Italian Coast Guard does, of what the Italian military do, of the rescues that, from the Letta Government onward, in line of continuity all Italian military forces have done; and we want them to continue to do. We are reassured by what Minister Moavero Milanesi said yesterday: we want people to continue to save lives, but at the same time we cannot help trying to regulate this phenomenon. If we do not regulate it, in fact, we will inevitably be submerged and - I add - the democratic forms of it will be submerged as we conceive them in Western and European societies. So let's forget about these ten patrol boats: it is obvious that we can only give a positive opinion. I really hope, however, that this debate will be and will mark a moment of joint reflection on what this phenomenon is, which comes from the Mediterranean Sea in an overwhelming way also for demographic issues. We all know, in fact, that we need non-EU countries, but we also know that we have people here, among the benches of Parliament, who come from different countries and have integrated themselves according to an order and a respect for the rules that is exactly what we want for all those who come here as a point of national union. [[Applause from Senator Leonardo.]] I was President of the House, elected by the center-right, and I declared myself in favour, fifteen years ago, of the ius soli. No one said anything, because then the ius soli was not a divisive element as it became fifteen years later. Did we move on or did we go back? We went back, unfortunately. Here we must try, slowly, to move forward together and prevent these topics from becoming the main themes of the electoral campaign. Because if they are, no one will be able to deal with them rationally. Politics is done with heart and mind. We must do it with the heart, with the heart we save human lives and with the heart we try to give solidarity. I remember when I went to Lampedusa and the police asked me if I wanted to enter a little house. I entered a little house where there were three Somalis: Dad, Mom and a little girl. The parents had lost three children in the crossing. They had left Mogadishu with four children and had stayed with a little girl who, lost, had a little game with which she was playing. These two parents had eyes looking into the void. Well these tragedies are the chain of many tragedies that, from Turkey to Greece to Lampedusa to other parts of Europe, we can live every day. We must be imbued with a sense of humanity but, having the task of guiding our countries, we must also be imbued with rationality. If, in fact, we lose the sense of rationality, know, dear friends, that good intentions are paved the way to hell and we would therefore risk, also to do good things in good faith, to produce bad results. Therefore, the vote in favour and of sharing on this decree-law goes beyond, for the Group For the Autonomies, today's debate. It is a way in which we want to address the problem together with you, majority and opposition, because there must be no boundaries on this and there must be the ability to look together at the problems of our time and also at the problems of our Italy, which wants to combine humanity and legality. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), PD and FI-BP]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u76	Senator Berardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I am honored to speak for the first time in this House, and particularly to do so today with regard to a measure concerning the safety of our coasts. It must be said at once that the measure under consideration pursues the idea of entrusting the Libyan Coast Guard with the control of its coasts and, to this end, provides something concrete to achieve this purpose. Libyans have an interest in controlling their coasts and territorial waters. Italy has attention to the fact that, as a result of more punctual control of the Libyan coasts, fewer boats leave. Less departures means above all - which is what we care about most - less people at risk of dying. As we have seen, in fact, some dilapidated boats, that is prey to the conditions of the sea, but also, in case of reliable hulls, with an immense load of people, soon end in a tragic way their crossing. The Mediterranean Sea has swallowed up 30,000 people in the last fifteen years: an entire city swallowed up by a blameless sea. The hopes of a better life ended for these men, women, boys and children, before even setting foot on the earth so longed for. Many run away from their own countries because of wars or terrible conditions that remove their civil rights or freedoms. It is not right, however, that they leave by putting themselves in the hands of merchants of men who do not care about their destiny. Departures must be stopped, but arrivals must not be stopped. Those who have the right to international protection, which is governed by international law and European law, must be able to reach Europe - I repeat, Europe - in a secure way. Humanitarian corridors must be opened for refugees. Those who are entitled to a residence permit as refugees must be able to reach European territory in a dignified way and must be welcomed as a brother. What we absolutely do not need is an irregular migration that does not distinguish between those who are entitled and those who cannot encamp any rights. Respect for the right is the basis of every civilization; if this were not the case, our own rule of law would cease. Unfortunately, irregular migration, in addition to causing the estimated 30,000 victims, which could even be more, has triggered an increase in the perception of illegality in our country. At the basis of the reception there must also be the work for everyone and the idea that the people we welcome can form families in our country. This model is the same that has seen the protagonists of our great-grandfathers immigrants at the beginning of the century, then our grandparents and in some cases our fathers - because even in the sixties still emigrated - and that today sees protagonists also our children. Advancing the idea that Italy can, or even should, welcome everyone is madness; it becomes an improbable policy especially for two orders of reasons. The first is that by now we all know that departures are managed by genuine criminals, by merchants of men of our day. The second is that we cannot afford to host nearly 200,000 people every year, since four out of five migrants received are not entitled to be hosted according to European rules. We cannot pretend that, once migrants are denied a residence permit, they do not go underground. More than 600,000 illegals are estimated, with obvious implications for security and public order. We cannot even pretend that Italy alone can support the integration of all those who are entitled to it. In terms of the public budget, we cannot divert almost 5 billion per year for the management of migrants, when we have to deal with budget balances and have triggered austerity policies towards our citizens. That is why politics must first of all pose the problem of stopping departures from Libya, in order to dispose in the best way of practices relating to migrants already present. The decree-law before us is certainly respectful of Parliament's prerogatives. It is not the first measure on the subject, but it relates to the policies of friendship, partnership and cooperation with Libya, already undertaken by the Berlusconi Government in 2009 to stem migratory flows and protect Italian interests in Libya. I am recalling the so-called Benghazi Treaty, namely the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation between Italy and Libya, signed by President Berlusconi and Gaddafi on 30 August 2008, which was ratified by Italy on 6 February 2009. The Treaty of Benghazi reached a historical result between the two countries and closed a dispute that dragged from the years of the post-war period. It should be remembered that, after that agreement of 2008, in Libya ceased the celebration of the day of revenge, organized by Gaddafi on October 7, 1970 in memory of the anti-Italian retaliation. On the subject of Italy-Libya litigation, Forza Italia presented an agenda, accepted by the Government in the Foreign Commission, with which it commits the Executive to address the unsolved issue of historical claims boasted for more than twenty years by more than 100 Italian companies vis-à-vis Libyan agencies and administrations, for a total amount of more than 200 million euros. These claims were recognised by the Libyan Government in 2013 and 2014 on the basis of the negotiations initiated within the Credit Committee, as provided for in the Treaty of Friendship. But, to return to the theme of the decree-law, it is not the first transfer of patrol boats to the Libyan Coast Guard. Just as our officers and petty officers have already worked to train and train Libyan workers. In 2009 three patrol boats were sold, three in 2010, others we repaired. Two patrol boats were sunk in 2011, during the French attack (known as the western coalition attack). Then, more recently, in April 2017, Minister Minniti had delivered another four patrol boats, investing in the formation of the Coast Guard and the Libyan Navy. Therefore the sale of twelve naval units provided for by the measure under consideration, free of charge, goes in the desired sense of a more punctual Libyan intervention in its SAR area. The financial resources necessary to ensure the maintenance and training of personnel shall also be ensured. Moreover, these sums are ridiculous compared to the enormous burdens faced in recent years to manage the complex migration phenomenon. The aim is to increase the operational capacity of the Libyan Coast Guard and Navy to counter human trafficking and rescue activities at sea. Disputes about the role of NGOs can only diminish if the Libyans increase the control of rescue and rescue areas at sea. The Italian borders of the Mediterranean are those of Europe, of which the European Commission must be persuaded. But if Italy, if we show concreteness and seriousness in managing the illegal migration phenomenon and at the same time the will not to stop the reception of those who are entitled to it, Europe will also have to take care of it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u78	She's registered to speak with Senator Pacific. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government, the donations of boats for patrol and rescue at sea to the Coast Guard and the Libyan Navy seem to be speculatively playing the Italian political battle. About twenty days ago, the spokesman of the Libyan Coast Guard claimed to an Italian journalistic agency, perhaps evoked by some politicians today in opposition, that our Government would not be able to offer the Libyan authorities any suitable boat to tackle the boats of the hullers. In fact, with sarcasm he claimed that at most our government would provide the North African Coast Guard with only a few dinghy boats. Probably, the source of the spokesman for the Libyan Coast Guard hoped for a priori rejection of the Libyan authorities. Today we read, instead, that the boats offered are of everything respect and there are a couple that abundantly exceed the 20 meters. What does that mean? It means that, after having trained the Libyan forces, the same will be able to control their territorial waters, they will have the force of ban against scafists and smugglers in general, thus beginning to consider themselves a sovereign state. It is clear that, in this regional order, some countries try not to emancipate the Libyan Armed Forces, just as it is clear the game of some Italian parliamentary oppositions that, neglecting Italian affairs and migrants and banking with pieces of the Army and Libyan coastguards, try to prevent any change in that chessboard. With regard to expenses, it can be safely stated that the mission of the Italian military costs less than the mission of the Forces of Order in any identification and expulsion center (CIE) or in a reception center for asylum seekers (CARA), sites in Italian territory. For example, the CARA of Mineo, in the province of Catania, employs every day 100 policemen, who come from all the Italian police stations and from the various mobile departments scattered throughout the territory. Each of these operators is guaranteed accommodation and meal in the hotel, plus the extraordinary daily and mission treatment. On average for a single cop you spend 200 euros per day over your salary. If this amount is multiplied by the number of police officers engaged, the expenditure is EUR 20,000 per day, which must be multiplied by 365 days. Do you realize that? It would be enough to close one of the countless Italian CIEs or CARAs to pay for the entire mission in Libya. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Basically, approximately €9 million a year is spent on ensuring the safety of the CARA di Mineo. If the dispatch of these patrol boats succeeds in reducing landings and leading to the closure of a single center in Italy, the Italian Government can safely state that this operation is at zero cost. It is also good to remember that a few days ago the European Council accepted the Libyan Government's proposal to extend the search and rescue area (SAR) for the maritime authorities of Libya. We're going past the 12 miles. So if, on the one hand, we agree with the Libyans to control a mirror of sea, which goes far beyond the national waters, on the other hand, we cannot fail to provide them with offshore patrol boats. In any case, the proposed supply is a first significant step in this direction. A step to which, I hope, follow others, perhaps with the supply of additional motorboats class 300, more suitable for the rescue at sea, as well as equipped with system of straightening. Moreover, I would like to point out to you that in SAR, as previously defined, the State of Malta, despite having been granted a stretch of sea corresponding to 650 times the extension of the island, almost always delegated others to carry out the rescues and almost never accepted the arrival of the shipwrecked in its ports. The sending of Italian patrol boats represents an act of trust and hope for the young Libyan Government... [[Comments from Senators Pharaoh and Laus.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u80	Colleagues, these calls apply to both sides of the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u81	[[Senator Airola's comments.]] PACIFIC (M5S). So I hope the next step is exquisitely political, to get that government to sign all the human rights agreements, first of all those of migrants. We have obligations to that country: we must help him to return to the stabilized countries. With regard to the agreements between Italy and Libya, it should be remembered that the first draft treaty was signed by the Prodi Government, with the joint communique, in 1998, with Gaddafi, precisely to commit the colonel to counter the birth of fundamentalist terrorism and, above all, to promote the extractions of the ENI. In 2008, with the Treaty of Benghazi, the Berlusconi Government closed the agreement substantially in three points: in addition to the above mentioned point, the Libyan Government committed itself to countering the phenomenon of immigration, which already showed the physiognomy of a real exodus. However, let us return to the first point of the 2008 agreement, in which it requires the contractors not to resort to the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of the opposite party. Which we, indeed you who were sitting between these benches, failed in 2011, first voting in favour of the use of NATO bases to bomb Libya, then entering directly into the conflict. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I could spend hours contesting the damage you've done in pursuing the crazy French project.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u82	Senator, address the Presidency, which will ensure that you can make your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u83	PACIFIC (M5S). Instead, I would like to remind you of the parties that voted in favour of the war in Libya. They voted in favour of the PdL, minor parties and the PD; they voted against the war the League and Italy of Values. I say this to reiterate that the spirit of cooperation of our Government with the recognised Libyan Government does not intend to continue, as some colleagues claim, the old bilateral policy with Libya. We should be ashamed of that policy. Just to say that there's continuity between us and you would give you a status that you don't deserve. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups. Ironic applause from the PD Group.]] FARAONE (PD). Bravo! Bravo!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u84	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u85	Mr President, I would like to reply for a very simple reason. I myself admit that I was quite bored during my introductory report on the measure, but fortunately the debate then developed on political tones that I very much appreciate. (17.58) (Follow-up to Mr Petrocelli, rapporteur). I would like to begin, in order to respond to some of the positions expressed in a purely political way in this House, by one of the last speeches, Senator Casini's. Senator Casini, listen to his quote from Mao Tse-tung, when he said that foreign policy is not a gala lunch, it's not really priced, but for the rest his speech is completely to be shared in the method and also in the contents, especially when he said that it's no wonder about a matter that we all knew and know. I am referring to the fact that Libya is divided into three state units, that there are parts of Libya controlled by militias, as Senator Bonino also recalled, that it is not with an initiative such as the one that the decree-law in question is proposing that we resolve the complex and intricate issues that we have been carrying for many years. Moreover, as Senator Fazzolari also recalled, someone has a responsibility if we have been carrying them for many years, at least since 2011, when our allies, especially France but also other NATO allies, have probably not behaved just as if they were our allies. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] and started an operation that then paid mainly for our country in terms of uncontrolled migratory flows. Senator Bonino also raised important issues. I am especially sorry that you compared this intervention to the activity of a bucket that cannot empty the ocean. It seems to me ungenerous to the measure under consideration that - I repeat - it has no ambition to control much bigger situations, but it is like the tide and if not the contrast you cannot stop it. It is as if we could say that the rising of a degree of global temperature does not raise the sea level and we do not have to intervene. Even the intervention of a bucket has an effect on the Ocean and especially on the Mediterranean, let me say. I would also like to remind my colleague, Mr De Falco, who also rightly pointed out that people are being seen and trained to intervene in one part of Libya by forgetting the other part: the part controlled by Haftar, as Senator Bonino recalled. We can safely say that they do not leave boats from Tobruk; they do not leave boats on the side controlled by Haftar. If they depart from the Libyan coasts controlled by the Government of Tripoli, it is to the latter that we must provide even one bucket to control those departures. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] Finally, I recall the correct interpretation made by senators and senators about the use of these boats, which are taken away from some Harbour offices. Already in the Commission, undersecretary Molteni has spoken on this subject, but I want to stress one small detail: from the left, with Senator Boldrini, to the right, with a Senator of Forza Italia, it has been said that these boats should be restored for the normal use that was made of them. In summary, it is argued - and it is right to support it - that we must think first and above all about the needs and needs of Italians: Senator Boldrini said so. But this message and this slogan, that is, let's first think about the clams of Goro and Gorino, that is, let's think about the Italians first, doesn't seem to me to be just a slogan of the Democratic Party; "First the Italians" is the slogan of another political party, Senator Boldrini. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] Although it may be right - and it is right and correct - to think first of the interests of Italians, to give even with a bucket the possibility to stop migratory waves and the trafficking of human beings means to think first of all of the Italians. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u86	Mr President, I do not intend to speak in response.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u87	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u88	Mr President, I would just like to point out that with amendment 1.1 we merely include in the decree-law, at first reading, what the Government assures verbally. We do not understand why the Government should not insure it in the decree-law through the acceptance of our amendment that it is limited to saying that the levels of efficiency and operational ability of the Harbour offices, Coast Guard and Guard of finance concerned must be safeguarded. If the Government agrees with this principle, let us insert it into the text of the provision and we will all be more relaxed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u89	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u90	Mr President, I am against Amendments 1.1 and 1.2. I give a favourable opinion on agendas G1.100 and G1.101 (which incorporates the rewording proposed by the Government in the Commission).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u91	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u92	I would ask those present whether they insist on voting on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u93	Yes, Mr President, I insist on voting on the agenda. Of course, I will ensure that this commitment is met within the prescribed time frame. I would also like to point out that I was referring to the fact that there was security for another community as well. I didn't say us first and then them, because otherwise we wouldn't even give up our ship. Mr Alfieri (PD). I also insist on voting on my agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.1 tabled by Senator Urso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.2 tabled by Senator Urso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1,100, presented by Senator Alfieri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1,101, tabled by Senators Boldrini and Alfieri. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which are described.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u96	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, as was conceivable, the debate has expanded considerably and has gone far beyond what is provided for in the Decree-Law, touching very complex issues. It has also demonstrated the strength that democracy has to self-improve if it wants to. I am thinking of the interventions by the opposition and above all those which have allowed the House to deal in their complexity with the many issues relating to human rights, security and migrants, contained in a specific and at the same time complex measure such as the one under consideration. Also because of the fact that today the House has worked better than before, respecting different positions even when they have expressed very distant sensitivities, I am speaking at this stage of the debate to raise a question, with great respect for the Presidency (otherwise I would have recourse to Rule 97 of the Senate Rules of Procedure), regarding the admissibility of amendment 2.0,500, tabled by the rapporteur. As you know, the measure under consideration has the power to hand over certain naval units to another country as a result of an international agreement. Amendment 2.0,500 deals with a subject which we consider to be unrelated to the content of the measure, proposing, in essence, to enrich our naval supply of drones. This obviously has nothing to do with the transfer of naval units to another country, as foreseen by an international agreement. Let us say this with great respect for the unassailability of the decisions taken by the Presidency, and that is why - I repeat - I did not speak on Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. However, I wanted it to remain in the record, for the continuation of our work and for the order and respect of the rules that determine the work of this House. On occasions like these, everyone needs more attention, as I continue to stress that the subject dealt with in the amendment is unrelated to the content of the measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u97	Senator Ferrari, I've been thinking about your report. Not only in the accompanying report, but also in Article 1 itself, it says: "In order to increase the operational capacity of the Coast Guard of the Ministry of Defence and the Coast Security Bodies of the Ministry of Interior," if the text had stopped here, I could have also said that there is merit in what you have just mentioned. It also adds, however, that control and security activities aimed at combating illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, as well as rescue activities at sea, should be carried out. Therefore, for these purposes, I believe that the rapporteur's amendment is acceptable. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u98	Mr President, I am against Amendment 2,100 and I am in favour of Amendment 2.0,500.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u99	On amendments 2.0.100 and 2.0.101, the 5th Commission gave an opinion against Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u100	Mr President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u101	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u104	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, Amendment 2,100 seeks to strengthen the concept of training and adequate preparation of the Libyan Coast Guard also in the light of the latest events of which we are all aware. We wanted to include, just as the President said earlier on the issue of safety and protection at sea, adequate preparation for first aid and protection of human rights. We do not understand why we can go forward with the amendment in which we plan to equip our naval units and, therefore, not the subject of the International Memorandum on which we are going today to identify the decree-law in which we surrender twelve Libyan naval units, and instead for us who ask to strengthen one of the qualifying elements of that agreement and, that is, the formation of Libyan personnel in a scenario like what we are experiencing, it is not possible to include the strengthening of the concept of first aid and the protection of human rights, which has to do precisely with the safeguarding of safety at sea. We therefore insist on voting in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u105	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.100, tabled by Senator Alfieri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.0,500, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 2.0.100 (text 2) on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr Ferrari (PD). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Alfieri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.101, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.101, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u108	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I would just like to say that the Autonomy Group will vote in favour of the decree-law on our examination. For the rest, I refer to the speech I just made during the general debate, in which I believe I have made myself quite clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u111	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we shall vote against the measure before us because we believe that it is a wrong decision for Parliament today in relation to the granting of naval units to the Libyan Coast Guard. They are a few days ago images of the rescue of a woman - we do not say this because of a category that is now abused in the commentary of politics, that is goodness, but because we report the reality of the facts as it is configuring - Josefa, by the NGO ship Proactiva Open Arms, clinging to the remains of a dinghy at sea, about to die by hypothermia next to the corpses of another woman and her child. With the passing of days, the reconstruction of what has happened, testified also by the presence of one of our Member, Mr Palazzotto, who has been on that ship, becomes increasingly clear and leads to a direct responsibility of the Libyan Coast Guard, despite the evident attempts to manipulate the reality that followed the hours after the rescue. It would seem, in fact, that the Libyan Coast Guard, intervening for the recovery of 158 people on board a dinghy, has abandoned the two women and the child at sea because of their likely refusal to interface with a person recognized as dangerous, the Libyan Coast Guard, precisely. Then there is the question of how the dinghy has been destroyed and whether the intervention of the Libyan Coast Guard has been decisive on this aspect as well. We remember how last year the NGO Proactiva has released a video in which agents of the Libyan Coast Guard were shown shooting in the air to intimidate the crew of one of the two ships of the Spanish NGO. Here, in the face of all this, in the face of the images and complaints of independent bodies such as UNHCR or Amnesty International, which for months have reported the unacceptable conditions of migrants in Libya, violence, torture, daily rapes, despite this heritage of information, our governments - the current one, but also those who preceded it - insist on considering Libya as a interlocutor to entrust the lives of hundreds of thousands of people. According to the World Health Organization there are more than 10,000 people identified by the Libyan Coast Guard and locked up in about 20 detention centers, and about 662,000 migrants, as reported by Minister Salvini a few weeks ago during an information to the Senate. Our Government wants to convey the message that the dramatic shortage of ships that allow the rescue of migrants in the Mediterranean can be resolved by giving naval units to the Libyan Coast Guard. We are well aware, however, that this deficiency is mainly due to the decision of the European governments, first of all the Italian governments, to obstruct the system of assistance provided by non-governmental organisations, while at the same time hindering the activation of channels of regular immigration and humanitarian corridors that allow to actually save the lives of thousands of people. It is evident that the ultimate aim of this Government, which moves in substantial continuity with the choices of previous governments, is perhaps not to save human lives, but rather to avoid in any way the possibility that people who flee from wars, persecutions, hunger can leave the African continent and achieve dignified living conditions. This is the only profile of necessity and urgency that would be acceptable for a decree-law on immigration, the rescue of people, not the reliance on subjects who have so far shown no attention not only to international standards but also to the most fundamental respect for human rights. Perhaps the words of the UN Secretary-General should resonate with greater impact in this House too, which has defined the conditions of migrants in Libya as crimes against humanity. Libya - it seems plionistic to have to remember it, but, apparently, it is not - does not have a real government, stable institutions with which to interface without ambiguity; much of the territory is in the hands of traffickers of human beings, often in league with militias, tribes and government officials. The Libyan state is totally depowered by internal conflicts, with entire areas controlled by different factions that deal directly with human traffickers: it is not clear, therefore, the motivation with which we are preparing to entrust it to the management of a complex phenomenon such as migration. Libya - let us still remember - does not even recognise the 1951 Geneva Convention on Refugees. In this context, we feel obliged to recall the decision of the UN Security Council, which just a few months ago sanctioned six Libyan traffickers, including the former head of the Al-Milad Coast Guard: the UN reports accuse him of "shooting migrants' boats to sink them," attacking them at sea and selling them to militias who control detention centres; an individual who, like this Government, has shown a deep aversion to NGOs, defined as an arm of foreign secret services. With the measure under consideration, therefore, it seems to us to support the unacceptable blackmail promoted by the Libyan authorities, which seem to have wanted to test - this is our impression - the availability of the new Government, as well as those who preceded it, to grant resources and means in exchange for the blocking of departures. But this - as a long series of reports is proving - is charging hundreds of desperate men, women and children the price of this arm wrestling. Among other things, this is in clear contrast to what is stated in Article 1 of the decree-law in which we speak of the purpose of rescue at sea; the supplied units are very small: the association Rights and Borders has signalled, in this sense, how the ships seem much more indicated to intercept and block the boats loaded with migrants under threat of weapons, rather than to proceed to operations that guarantee the rescue and the transfer to a port of safe disembarkation. On this last point, moreover, we remember that the UN has declared Libya port unsafe under the Hamburg Convention of 1979, a statement confirmed by recent decisions of the judges of Ragusa and Palermo. We believe that it is right to vote against this measure, which goes exactly in the direction I have described. And we allow ourselves to say that, perhaps, we should start from some choices that have characterized the past and that have then been dramatically and blamefully abandoned. I'm thinking Mare Nostrum. We should start again from the activation - as I said before - of regular immigration channels, but above all, we should start from our humanity. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Marcucci.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u114	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, we have supported since the debate on the vote of confidence that we would have a proactive opposition attitude, which is something more than the constructive opposition we were asked for. And we are also demonstrating this with regard to this measure, a measure that we have discussed in a significant way in the Commissions to address some shortcomings that had emerged regarding the capital value of the assets that were being sold, the financial cover, the discrepancies, the contradictions and the confusion contained in the estimates of expenditure. The Government, in the Commission, responded with a very comprehensive technical report which supplemented - and in some cases corrected - the previous technical notes, inter alia, with regard to asset valuation, for example, with regard to non-estimate. Therefore, we have made our contribution to making the best of the measure. We would have liked to have done more, with the amendments tabled first in the Commission and then in this House, to reassure the security operators (the port offices and the Guardia di Finanza) who are being taken away from them - in some cases, the exclusive means - without having the certainty that they will be replaced where the need arises. This certainly concerns some regions particularly involved in the fight against illegal immigration - but not only - such as Sicily and Puglia. And we regret that the government does not want to give this reassurance in the text of the measure. Moreover, in the same text we have agreed that an amendment was inserted with which drones are supplied the means of the Harbour office and the Coast Guard. We believe that this is also an important additional element in order to better combat illegal immigration and, if necessary, to help those who find themselves in difficulties in Italian or international territorial waters. Therefore, our attitude is of a proactive opposition, aimed at improving the measures here or at countering them when we do not share them, such as - for example - it is happening with the decree-law unemployment, falsely called decree-law dignity, in the examination of the Chamber of Deputies. And this is our attitude towards the Government, all the more so on the measure at our examination, which will also be voted by the Left Groups, because it certainly comes from international agreements shared by the previous Government. However, I would like to point out that such a measure today is inserted in a political context of contrast to immigration quite different from that which has been achieved in the previous Government: a contrast to immigration that, above all for the impulse of the Minister of the Interior, is seeing our country in the front row in Europe, aimed at awakening all the countries so that they contrast a particularly serious phenomenon that endangers - it has emphasized also today, in this forum, President Casini - social security, tranquility, serenity, basically our society. We believe that this change is important and we support it in every respect because - in our opinion - the phenomenon is certainly global. We believe that Italy alone cannot oppose it, but we also believe in the fact that it is not inevitable and that Italy can and must make its contribution in order to put an end to the phenomenon. I address Senator Bonino: the people in question, the migrants fleeing from despair and misery, in some cases even the refugees fleeing from war, do not flee from Libya; they are not Libyan. They flee from other areas of Africa through Libya. If the phenomenon has been created, it has been created and enlarged precisely because the perception that those populations had, in Nigeria as in the Horn of Africa, was that of a navigation through the Mediterranean then supported by the ships of non-governmental organizations. I was struck, ladies and gentlemen, a few years ago by the statement made by some people who set the very simple example, and clear to all of us, according to which any pastor in Central Africa, Niger, rather than Ethiopia, through his mobile phone - and 70% of Africans own a mobile phone - today has the same knowledge and information about the world of which twenty-five years ago only the President of the American Republic was in possession. I mean that through that telephone the pastor of Mali or Nigeria is aware that there is a different world and also that ships collect refugees in the territorial waters of Libya and then bring them to Europe, and therefore move on the basis of this illusion. The mobile transmits such hope and hundreds of thousands of people, on the basis of that image, often of that illusion, end up in Libya in the bloodthirsty hands of the traffickers of men, who are worse than drug traffickers. This illusion we must eliminate or if we eliminate this illusion and those images, we stop the migration from Central Africa at source. This also poses the problem of what to do for those peoples and I say it with great responsibility. I am sorry that in the very political debate, which opened for a few hours, no one mentioned for example, - as we have already done in the Commission and in this House elsewhere and for a few seconds - the peace chapter that opened in the Horn of Africa. This is underlined by the Government, Europe stresses this and this House underlines it: if we want to stop the biblical migration that comes from those lands - and at least one third of the migrants who are trying to reach Europe through Italy from those lands - I would like the Government, Italy and the European Union to grasp those signs of peace and stabilisation that concern Ethiopia, Eritrea, Somalia mentioned in this House, South Sudan and also Sudan and Kenya, a whole geographical area particularly fundamental for us because it is the source of the flow of migration, sometimes refugees who migrate and desperate who seek solutions of well-being in our territory. A policy to face this migration that can be said to be complete must on the one hand, certainly - as the Government and above all the Minister of the Interior are doing - block, as far as we are concerned, the illegal migration that disembarks in the Italian ports; on the other hand, certainly with this provision, that it is not small, because it is not limited to supplying twelve ships to the Libyan authority, gives an important signal to the Libyan authority of legitimization of those institutions, and the Libyan institutions need to be legitimized; and it gives the important signal to the European Union and to France that Italy aims to stabilize that Government and that country. We know, in fact, from whom came the attack that destabilised the Government of Gaddafi and led to his death, on questions not only oil, but also monetary, because Gaddafi was freeing himself from monetary subjection to France and was a threat to all the countries of Central Africa that suffer such domination. I believe that this signal is much more important than the twelve patrol boats granted to the Libyan authorities: it is a signal to the Libyan institutions, it is a signal to the European Union, it is a signal to France, it is a signal to Italy that it must develop an overall policy and that we must implement where we can. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Libya is certainly important, but the Horn of Africa is perhaps even more important, because it is the source of so much trouble and immigration. On this too, the Government takes a significant initiative and will have our consent. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Fantetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u117	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, the measure we are examining is certainly limited and relatively simple from a technical point of view. It is clear, however, that it is part of a difficult and complex geopolitical context, within which the choice of the Democratic Party matures, which - as is often the case when it comes to foreign policy - does not mature lightly. In these choices, in fact, political, diplomatic, sometimes economic and commercial, reasonings and assessments are mixed with issues that have to do with the ethical sphere, with personal convictions, with principles and values at the basis of our culture. And it is clear that, when confronted with different contexts, they also create identity conflicts. It is therefore difficult and difficult to mature these choices. We are also aware - as Senator Bonino pointed out in her speech - of the damnedly complicated situation in Libya, of a state that does not exist, but that does not exist today as it did not exist before. It was original in fact also the statehood at the time of the rais, when the different tribes - the same tribes that now organize themselves differently - were unified in a sort of feudal system, where he was the feudalist and the chief tribes were the vassals and the valvassors: already then there was a mechanism of exchange. The same applies to the very concept of human rights and to the concept of human dignity, which is different there. So, for this reason, should we not have relations and should not try to build bridges with a country that is in front of us, whose relationship is strategic, if only because we are immersed in the Mediterranean and, even if we do not want to, we suffer the negative effects of an unstabilized context? I think we need to go back. The Treaty of Benghazi has been mentioned several times. The truth is that the real watershed was the intuition of Romano Prodi in 1997: that is where relations with Libya have changed. For years there was almost an embargo, indeed a real embargo against what the United States called a rogue state, with which we should not have relations, so much so that there were unilateral sanctions of the United States and multilateral sanctions of the United Nations system. The intuition of Prodi, first as President of the Council and then as President of the European Commission, was to bring that state, which could become the gymnasium of Islamic terrorism, the place where the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction grew, within a multilateral dialogue, trying to solve also commercial and economic problems, which for years the Italians and our own companies asked to resolve. Economic diplomacy, politics, ability to bring Libya back into the international community and to overcome the tragic episode of Lockerbie: that was the winning intuition. Berlusconi's diplomacy, certainly with a more economic footprint, was also implanted on that trail. The mistake was the senseless intervention in Libya. Pedagogically and didactically it could be explained to the senator who intervened before it was supported by the center-right government. We were then in opposition and it is perhaps good to remember these passages from time to time. Then it was difficult to carry on this type of work, which was resumed by the central-left governments, in particular with the Memorandum Gentiloni Silveri, signed on February 2nd, 2017. Well, there's an overall strategy in there, and that's the limit of the measure to our examination. This is a welcome measure on which we will be voting in favour, but its limit is to deal with only part of a more complex issue. It is clear that a comprehensive strategy is needed towards Libya, which addresses all the issues of that Memorandum. One is faced here: so there has been talk of continuity, but there is no continuity. If there were real continuity, you would adopt the entire Memorandum. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , which provides for cooperation and assistance to those communities that pay a very high price to trafficking in human beings. Here we focus only on the final part, the patrolling of the coasts, the intervention in the Mediterranean, but not on development cooperation and not on a collaboration to seal the southern borders of Libya, which are damn difficult, because there is the desert. And I remember once again that, when we proposed the mission in Niger, those who today stand on the benches of the majority voted against, whereas on the contrary we had to give the signal that this was the first time that the issue of trafficking in human beings was also addressed. Then there is the precarious condition in which the permanent centres in Libya are located. On the agenda for G1,100 - and I am sorry that they voted against our amendment - we also called for attention to be paid to cooperation with the International Organisation of Migration and the High Commissioner for Refugees, which is crucial because not only the centre that is building UNHCR but also the other Libyan-managed ones have control of international organisations, to raise the standard and minimum level of human rights. It is in this respect that the approach of this Government is lacking. All right, here we go. However, at the time of the sightings, we ask that representatives of international organizations linked to the United Nations also be present in all centres. That's how you do it. It's a simple rule. Diplomacy provides for this: motor vehicles, but also the ability to raise the level of human rights, the ability to build democratic institutions. That is why we will be voting in favour of this measure, but we will no longer be prepared in the future - as we have written on our agenda and in the amendment - to adopt further measures which are limited only to combating immigration into the Mediterranean and do not address the central issues of how to bring down trafficking in human beings, control the southern borders of Libya and implement a major overall plan of development cooperation aid. Only if we do this will we win our battle in Libya. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u120	SOLINAS (L-SP). Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and fellow senators, our Group will vote strongly in favour of the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 84 of 2018 for at least three orders of reasons that I am going to decline: from the point of view of the programmatic coherence, the reconstruction of a clear line of international relations, diplomacy and foreign policy of the country in the Mediterranean quadrant and not only, of the national interest to restore the role of Libya's main political partner in its entirety. The government contract, on the decisive impulse of the League of Matteo Salvini, has firmly placed the need to face the management of illegal migration flows with a new perspective that puts an end to the trafficking of human beings and the reprehensible business that has developed around it, without forgetting that the huge public funds allocated to the system of the so-called reception, together with the mechanisms not transparent provided for their management, have constituted a definitely attractive element for organized crime. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] It is neither civilly nor humanly tolerable to passively witness the criminal action of scafisti who daily feed a real treatise, lucrating on the skin of migrants and sowing disorder and death in our seas. In order to get to the root of the problem, one cannot ignore a strategy shared with Libya, which in recent years has been recklessly plunged into chaos by the sudden decision to bomb and overthrow the regime in power without a serious and concrete unitary alternative. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] , thus becoming the main collector of these phenomena. Accredited independent observers have estimated that the migration business now accounts for 30% of GDP, from which increasing portions of Libyan society are sustaining, with the real risk that this model of illegal economy will become structural and difficult to convert in those territories. Today, our commitment must be to support the re-established Libyan authorities to develop an effective policy of defending their borders in the South, especially through bilateral agreements with the Central African countries and the Sahel, but above all a punctual control of their border along the northern coast that looks to Italy. Currently, the Libyan Coast Guard has only four rather old and operationally limited patrol boats, both from the point of view of the on-board equipment and personnel, disused at the time of the Italian Finance Guard and subsequently donated by the Berlusconi Governments and Gentiloni Silveri within the framework of the numerous bilateral cooperation agreements signed between the two countries. 18.45 (Solinas follow). In this context the measure is included in the discussion that, in the wake of the bilateral collaboration, is placed on the plan of the concreteness of the action offering to the Libyan authorities a fleet that goes quadruple the current availability of naval units and, therefore, of the officers to patrol and the control of the territorial waters, together with the indispensable training and training of the staff of the organs for the coastal safety. These measures contribute, on the other hand, to giving effect to the action of the Libyan Government. In fact, it does not seem realistic a comprehensive solution to the many problems related to the current condition of the Libyan territory without a consolidation of the Government of al-Sarraj that raises it to an accomplished status, emancipated by the perception of a trust institution of the international community. I am sorry that Mrs Bonino is absent from the Chamber now. We know very well what the foundation of Libya is, but you cannot pretend not to know why it is so and who has destabilised the country. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] That country has been destabilised by the choices and interests of international power groups with which you have customary relations, If the former Ottoman province of Fezzan is marked by the struggle between the Tuareg minorities, the Tebu and the Arab tribes like the Awlad Suleiman, perhaps there is a relationship with the policies of the Obama administration, aimed at promoting the birth of tribal governments and Islamists. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] Today we follow the line of international legitimacy by dialogue with the only recognized interlocutor. You, Senator Bonino, have said yourself legal, but I'm afraid you're declining this concept in the sense of legalizing what legal isn't, starting to practice it even before it becomes legal. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] Your legal channels of entry to whom would they be directed, to how many and with what requirements? Already there are legal forms to enter the country, but here we are talking about illegal and illegal immigration. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] It may have been contested by my Group for this, but it has never come from these benches an offense, never a threat or an insult: it is not a way that belongs to us. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] What's the alternative? The alternative to not dialogue with al-Sarraj is the risk that, under the pressure of the various insurrectional forces operating there, the final dissolution of a Libyan state will be achieved. The Security Council has always expressed resolutions for the unity of Libya and against any possibility of secession. But if the situation were to fall, there would be no great scope for recovery. In a further respect, with this measure we hope that the Government will resume overall and with a broader perspective the role of political and diplomatic initiative that the country had lost over the years, especially with regard to Libya. For too long, in fact, Italy has renounced its natural role as leader of reference for the region, accepting supinatingly that France gained so much ground that in May this year, as the only and privileged mediator between the various factions in conflict, in the clear search to open a new market for French interests, new orders for its own companies and for the war industry of Oltralp. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] For our part, however, we must protect the presence - for example - of ENI on the Mediterranean shore of Africa, defending the investments made over the years in the search for gas and oil deposits, to which Total Elf strongly points. This means restoring meaning and dignity to the concept of national interest, all too often clouded by the need to indulge in globalist and radical chic ideological choices. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] For all these reasons, confirming the Group's vote in favour, we would like to see a similar expression from the whole Senate. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u123	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, representatives of the Governments, ladies and gentlemen, we in the Forza Italia Group would go on a collision course with ourselves if only remotely we thought we would vote against this measure, because our policy, which over the years has been balanced, forward-looking, rational, supportive, firm and responsible, requires us to do so. I would like to clarify one point immediately. I said solidarity because we have been a great country and in our program there is first of all the defense of the life of those who launch themselves at sea in the hope of finding not only safe arrivals, but also a different type of life. Defending life means carrying out rescue operations. However, we are at the same time firm in understanding that the real situation in Italy - and we must confront the real world - is not such as to allow the arrival of anyone, of all those who would have the desire to leave Africa to come to Italy. We know that Africa has 1,200 million inhabitants. It is an immense continent. Austria has closed its borders and France has done the same thing. The borders of the States have not ceased; international politics has not decreed the cessation of Italy's borders. For this reason, we believe that the first front of intervention for both humanitarian and counter-immigration operations must be right next to the Libyan coasts in the Mediterranean. This is our understanding. This is the reason for the transfer of twelve vessels of this scale, some of which - as I have already said in general - have a high technological capacity. I am referring, for example, to the use of radars that can intercept those boats from the start. Therefore, the preparation of the Libyan marines and, above all, of those boats, with the hope that they can enter into service quickly. I believe that this is the most beautiful gift that we can make not only to Libya, but to Italy and Europe and - let me say - also to those immigrants who hope to arrive, but who do not realize the tragedies that have transformed the Mediterranean into a great cemetery. There are 30,000 deaths crying out for revenge. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And this has been the case for unholy reception policies, because it has been said that everything could be done here. I'll give you an example. I have here a friend of a locality of Sardinia, Porto Pozzo, where 180 immigrants were hosted in a four-star hotel. I can do well if they stay in four-star hotels people who may have escaped from a war. But we cannot accept that there are also those who come here for other reasons and who very often end up filling the prison patriae. [[Applause from the L-SP and FI-BP Groups]] We think the operation we did was very simple. We sell twelve boats and two particular boats, but this must be part of a much larger organic project. There must be a real Marshall plan for Africa. We must invest in those lands with the help and intervention of other nations as well. We must certainly guard the southern border of Libya. We must start thinking - as we pointed out in our programme - about patrolling the southern Mediterranean area, with a naval blockade to discourage departures. At this point I wonder, in fact, where is the United Nations Organization and what has it done for Africa in recent years? How come we've been reduced to this kind of condition? We make hotspots at the southern border of Libya, where possible, with investments. First Senator Casini reproached me for saying that it is necessary to have a document when you enter a country, as it is normally the case when you go to America, the United States, Russia, China, England and any other country. It is clear that I cannot ask the person who makes the crossing. It is therefore necessary to open these hotspots, strengthen our embassy in Libya, succeed in normalizing the Libyan reality. All this I believe is due to Italy for respect especially to Italians. We would like to know who comes to us; we would like to know what criminal record many of those who arrive in Italy have. There are too many crimes committed. That is why, Mr President, we believe that this operation should only be the beginning of a major project for Africa, a major protection project also for our nation. I would just like to point out that a very important agenda has also been approved and accepted by the Government, which goes in the direction of helping entrepreneurs, our businesses, the 100 companies I have also mentioned in general discussion. We hope that the government will finally accept it, also by allocating funds for the return of almost 234 billion. It was an unresolved conflict, and I must also thank you for accepting the agenda. I would like to conclude by recalling one last thing: when in 2008 the Berlusconi Government, together with Libya and Gaddafi, had achieved the Benghazi Treaty, it had seen ahead. When Minister Moavero Milanesi went to Libya a few days ago, his counterpart Foreign Minister asked him to take that Treaty out of the drawer, courtesy. I am pleased that this issue has also been dealt with in this House, that it has given merit and honour to those who have achieved that Treaty and, in particular, to President Berlusconi. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We must be grateful for this: it has been very far-sighted in foreign policy. For these reasons, we will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u124	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u126	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to make my first explanation of vote in this parliamentary term on an important subject, which is very topical these days and months. I must point out, however, that in general discussion we have remained on really general issues, because I have heard many things about them. In reality the decree-law is very important, but simple and, in its political perimeter, it speaks of something really specific, of twelve patrol boats that we are providing, after an appropriate arrangement for the putting into the sea, in support of the Libyan Coast Guard. This is the perimeter of the measure. In this House we have heard many other words. On the other hand, I would like to make an explanation of vote on the substance of the measure, not as has been done both in general discussion and in explanation of vote. We would otherwise end up in what I like to call against populism; you accuse us of being populists, but probably more so than counter-populism, that is, always and stubbornly saying falsehoods in the hope that they will become true. I have heard a word quoted that may be a kind of hope. This word is continuity. I would like to assure you that there is nothing about continuity. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There is absolutely no continuity; put your soul in peace. If there is continuity with something that existed in the past, it is with constitutional principles. Among the objectives of the measure are in fact words such as combating trafficking in human beings and saving human lives. These are constitutional principles and here, yes, there is continuity. We cannot, however, give you some sort of rescue anchor to stay on the subject. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I have also listened to words that I sincerely wish to reject to the sender. Our colleague, Senator Bonino, spoke of skin color, tackiness, respect and insults. But dear President, in this decree-law these words are not there. It doesn't contain insults, it doesn't say "pacchia," it doesn't say "color of the skin." In the decree-law is written simply a word that is "motovedette" that we are providing to the Libyan Coast Guard. Now, I say this because it is useless to continue to say that it is really difficult to provide these objects to a government that does not exist, to a state that does not exist. We must also be objective, because when it comes to trade relations, when it comes to exporting to countries that are completely destabilized, it happens that the interlocutor has always managed to find it. Then we should probably make an effort and be able to find it in these areas as well. The objectives of this decree-law were three basically: the control of migratory flows, an attempt to stabilize Libya and, I repeat, the contrast to human trafficking. One point needs to be clarified on this too. In the past there has been told a Libya that did not actually exist. When NATO Secretary General Stoltenberg came here to the Senate to tell us about his Libya, the one he had known boots on the ground, his vision was completely different from Libya that Gentiloni Silveri and Alfano told us. I say this because Gentiloni Silveri and Alfano talked about stabilising and creating, for example, a stable Tripoli politically while at the same time Stoltenberg told us about a Tripoli in which there were 87 factions in combat, that is, one behind every corner. Therefore, I believe that over the last parliamentary term the effort to be truly realistic on a subject that has become truly dramatic has been too small. In this regard, I refer to President Casini's words: the danger is not that these issues could degenerate into a forthcoming election campaign. These issues marked the past election campaign, the one you lost. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So let's also try to get a proper dose of realism. (at 19:03) (Following Lucidi). Our Minister Moavero Milanesi said that some of those treaties, which are essentially frozen, must be reopened for a fair dialogue with a country that is close to us, which is essentially bordering because it is the first country that we find below our sea. But there is another important point that drives us to vote in favour of this measure. In the course of the discussion and also in the contents of the report, critical issues emerged. Precisely to support the fact that there is no continuity with the past, the same Government, in the person of Undersecretary Molteni, whom I thank for his work, has promptly clarified in the meetings of the Commission, all those points that had been pointed out as critical. So, I have a very short parliamentary experience. I have already carried out a mandate and I am proud of my second term and I had never seen a representative of the government answering questions. The Government of Change did. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] This is an additional signal of discontinuity with the past and is definitely a new note, a unique note. [[Comments of Senator Bellanova]] So, dear Senator Bellanova, where does the Libya problem come from? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lucidi, I'm here. Talk to me. LUCIDES (M5S). One of the problems in those areas is that they have been governed for many years by even dictatorial entities. Even many years ago there was Pharaoh. Fortunately, pharaoh is gone now. There's still a few around, and unfortunately we're keeping it. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] MALPEZZI (PD). What are you talking about? Talk to the presidency! BELLANOVA (PD). What are you talking about? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bellanova, let Senator Lucidi intervene. LUCIDES (M5S). I think it's okay for them to have fun because they paid to be here. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Protests from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u127	Senator Lucidi, we're in final voting. Let's not argue.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u128	LUCIDES (M5S). You are right, Mr President, I apologise, but it is the truth. MALPEZZI (PD). You're so rude. Remember that! President, you can't turn to anyone else! LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, in a few moments we will have the satisfaction and taste of adopting a decree-law without trust, bearing witness to the fact that it can be done and that it could be done even earlier. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] MALPEZZI (PD). Don't say that too soon! LUCIDES (M5S). Before this time, however, I am voting in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations. Senator Malpezzi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u129	Senator Malpezzi, you do not have the right to reply to any intervention that is being made. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No. 84 of 10 July 2018, with urgent provisions for the transfer of Italian naval units in support of the Coast Guard of the Ministry of Defence and the bodies for the coastal safety of the Libyan Ministry of Interior." (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u130	The next item is the debate on draft law No 675, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Pillon, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u131	Mr President, the Senate is today called upon to examine the bill - already approved by the other branch of Parliament - for the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 73 of 22 June 2018 laying down extraordinary and urgent provisions to ensure the proper exercise of the jurisdiction of the criminal court and the prosecutor of the Republic of Bari, following the declared inadmissibility by the municipality of Bari of the buildings used for such judicial offices. The text under consideration has not been amended by the Justice Commission. None of the amendments tabled were adopted. In the course of the debate there have been no lack of critical remarks on the measure, the content of which I shall try to summarize in the illustration I am preparing to make. In substance, the decree-law in conversion consists of three articles. Article 1, paragraph 1, establishes until 30 September 2018, the suspension of criminal proceedings pending, at any stage and degree, before the court of Bari and the course of the prescription. For pending criminal proceedings (the measure does not expressly clarify the date on which such proceedings should be pending, but for this reason an ad hoc agenda will be presented which I reserve the right to explain better in the following) the decree-law suspends the periods of duration of preliminary investigations; the time limits provided for by the criminal procedural code, under penalty of inadmissibility and revocation; the time limits for the submission of complaints and appeals. These are suspensions which, unlike what some colleagues in the opposition have denounced, do not undermine the right of defence at all; on the contrary, they are largely a guarantee. We are also talking about a suspension which does not work for all proceedings. In fact, paragraph 2 of Article 1 contains some exceptions. In particular, the suspension does not work for direct judgment, for the validation of seizures. Similarly, in order to protect the constitutionally guaranteed right to personal freedom, the suspension does not work in relation to the arrest and detention validation hearing, in proceedings with defendants in custody. Moreover, such suspension does not work with respect to the trials with defendants subject to other personal precautionary measures, in the presence of emergency profiles assessed by the court proceeding. This last forecast - I would like to remind you - was included by the House during the examination in the course of the conversion and has not been modified by the Senate Justice Commission. Article 2 of the Decree-Law then contains the clause of financial invariance, which I consider appropriate to read to you: From the implementation of the provisions of this decree no new or higher charges for public finance shall arise. The administrations concerned shall comply with the requirements laid down in this Decree with the human, financial and instrumental resources available under existing legislation. It seems clear to me that this article repudiates any doubt as to the alleged excessive honesty of the measures contained in the decree-law in conversion. With regard to the appropriateness of the clause of financial invariance, I would like to point out to the House that, just yesterday, the Budget Committee also expressed its support - by approving a non-observatory opinion on the text of the Decree-Law. Finally, Article 3 contains the rule on entry into force. Before concluding my speech, I would like to make a few brief comments on a matter which is particularly discussed in both the House and the Senate. I would like to point out, on behalf of everyone, that the identification of the property to be allocated to the new seat of the Apulian court is a matter that completely goes beyond the decree-law in conversion. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] The measure - I repeat - aims to deal responsibly with damages that others have done over the years and, through the extraordinary measure of suspension, which, as I repeat, operates for an extremely limited period of time - we are talking about three months - faces an emerging situation, which sees impossible the development of judicial activity in the city of Bari. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u132	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Misiani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u133	Mr President, the rapporteur referred to the scope of the measure in our examination. The story has dominated part of the chronicle of these weeks, and it is worth recapitulating it: the strongly critical condition of the buildings of the court and the attorney of Bari, the declaration of inagibility (with the agibility revoked by the Municipality of Bari on May 31), the search for alternative solutions, with the seat of the suppressed detached section of the tribunal of Modugno, the tension structures, that so much discussion have legitimately produced. Finally, the measure under discussion suspends the time limits laid down in the Code of Criminal Procedure for the duration of the phase of preliminary investigations and the relevant preliminary hearing, the time limits for inadmissibility and forfeiture and those set for the lodging of an appeal or complaint until 30 September 2018, as the rapporteur points out. As a member of the Budget Commission, Mr President, I would like to speak about the financial profiles of this measure, the quantification of the charges and the coverage of them. The Government of the Ministry of Justice has submitted, at the request of the rapporteur in the Budget Committee, an update of the technical report which specifies, as requested by the rapporteur himself, some information on the possible quantification of charges in relation to a particular aspect, namely the notification of criminal acts which, according to this technical report produced by the Ministry of Justice - we are talking about tens of thousands of notifications, 60 000 if I remember correctly - would take place for the most part, 90% according to this data, through the new telematic modalities, essentially by electronic mail, without increasing charges for public finance, while only a small part, according to the Ministry of Justice, would take place by ordinary mail or by hand, through a judicial officer: a procedure which in this case would have a much higher cost quantified in 11 euros to notification. On the basis of these estimates, the Ministry calculates in 60,000 euros the total cost of non-telematic notifications, a burden, according to the Ministry, which can be covered substantially by savings on the costs of justice deriving from the temporary suspension of the procedural activities in the judicial offices of Bari and, in case these savings were not sufficient, however drawing on Chapter 1550 (Expenditure relating to the functioning of the judicial offices). These estimates and these assessments have been challenged by us in the Budget Committee and we are going back to questioning them in this House. We dispute the quantification of the burden of this measure, because it seems unrealistic to us to estimate 90% of notifications made by electronic means. It is true that everything in the relationship with lawyers now happens according to telematic procedures, but many of these notifications must be made to the accused and, in the vast majority of cases, the accused have no certified e-mail for which notifications must be made by ordinary mail or by hand, at a cost - as I mentioned earlier - of 11 euros per notification. We therefore believe that the costs are likely to be significantly higher than the estimate of EUR 60,000 made by the Ministry of Justice and brought to the Senate's Budget Committee, we believe that there is a real risk that the savings resulting from the suspension of the court's activity are not at all sufficient to cover these burdens, which could be much more than EUR 60,000 and we believe that they risk compromising the clause of financial invariance which, as the rapporteur recalled, claims that no new or greater burdens should arise from public finance and that these burdens should be met with the human, financial and instrumental resources available to current legislation. I would point out, however, that Chapter 1550 (Expenditure relating to the operation of judicial offices) refers to the ordinary expenditure of judicial offices. We are in July and it is reasonable to imagine that the vast majority of the expenditure financed through this chapter have already been committed by the judicial offices throughout Italy and that there is a real risk that this measure will be discovered. We have raised this issue in the Budget Committee, we are going back to raising it in this House for a measure which has the reasons mentioned by the rapporteur in his speech, but which, from the financial point of view, as far as Article 81 of the Constitution is concerned, has, in our opinion, many problems which the Senate cannot fail to take into account. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u134	He's enlisted to speak Senator Damiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u135	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by quoting some of the definitions that have been used in recent weeks to judge the decree-law in question, which should have played a decisive role in resolving the issue of the Bari court: bankruptcy, unreasonable, incompetent, in bad faith, monstrosity and, in conclusion, unconstitutional. It is clear, therefore, that such unanimous judgments, most of which come from lawyers in charge of the work, cannot certainly be attributed to a political rivalry or to usual dialectic between majority and opposition. These are, in fact, technical objections and severe positions indicative of a critical, substantial and formal, that the Government cannot ignore and that we have the duty, when converting the decree-law, to evaluate in the particular interest of the situation subject to the measure, but above all in the general interest of some fundamental principles of the legal order, which cannot be bypassed lightly, without taking into account the disastrous consequences for the judicial reality. In fact, Forza Italia presented this morning a preliminary question of constitutionality, which was alas rejected by majority by the Assembly, because, if the decree-law was converted, the consequences of the constitutional exceptions, which will certainly be raised during the trials, will be incalculable. The Minister of Justice Bonafede, meeting at the beginning of June lawyers, magistrates and staff of the Bari court, had ensured a quick solution to restore the security conditions for the operators of justice and restart all the services to the users: the result was diametrically opposed, to the point that the criminal chambers of Bari today claim to prefer the trials in the tentopolis in the middle of summer, with the inconveniences already experienced in the past weeks, compared to the suspension of the terms. As the rapporteur has just asked, I will avoid going into the substance of the choice of the property, which has already been dealt with by the press in recent days, but these are elements of evaluation, which affect the overall negative judgment, which unfortunately the whole story arouses, fruit of superficiality or even of lack of knowledge of the territory. In fact, unfortunately, the risk of complicating an already very serious situation is obvious. However, to be honest, it must be recognized that the current drama of the Bari court has roots certainly dating back in time, being a situation already known for many years, but unfortunately ignored by the local administrations of the time (the Mayor Emiliano in the lead), until the predictable collapse of the last months. But to assume previous responsibilities would only be a mere exercise of style and therefore, as such, useless. The story is undoubtedly complex, so the more inadequate the simplistic solution proposed today appears, both from the legal point of view, through the suspension of the procedural terms, and from the logistic point of view, with the choice precisely of the provisional building that must host the judicial classrooms. Unfortunately, it must be acknowledged that, again, the Government's approach appears to be in line with a general tendency to offer simple solutions to complex problems; solutions which, of course, are not too late to prove inadequate, manifesting all their weakness. This would also be the lesser evil, if only to intervene with an unsuitable measure in a matter with innumerable implications and repercussions on the professional realities of so many legal practitioners and on the lives of so many citizens, already penalized by the biblical times of Italian justice, involves a plurality of negative repercussions, which risk to aggravate the general situation, rather than resolving it. After the months of suspension it will be necessary to notify thousands of notices to the parties and defenders in order to establish the hearings again, paralyzing the proceedings indefinitely. Above all, the Minister should explain why this pseudo-emergency, which is a real emergency, is not, because it is widely foreseen, justifies the suspension of citizens' rights, but not emergency procedures and extraordinary funding. The numbers confirm the chaos: we are talking about about about 72,000 procedures for at least 100,000 notifications: at what cost? The Ministry says only 60,000 euros, but I absolutely express my strong doubts. The offices will take months, if not years, to do this, and the prescription will start running again. What, then, is the meaning of this suspension, in the general context of the judicial situation? Forza Italia refuses the temporary, partial and unconstitutional solution contained in the decree-law and indicates instead the way of the emergency procedure, through a rule that confers extraordinary powers to the Minister himself, so as to be able to derogate from the urbanistic constraints and proceed to the move into the definitive property that will be considered suitable. If it is a real emergency, we have the courage to tackle it with the most incisive instruments available, rather than resorting to low-cabotage, seemingly decisive, but with disastrous effects in the long term. This is not what we stand for, in the exclusive interest of the citizens. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u136	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u137	Mr President, in my speech this morning, when I explained the question of constitutionality to the decree-law in question, I intended, as planned, to reiterate that it violates several fundamental rights enshrined in our Constitution, and also triggers an evil domino effect. All this, however, in a political framework where residual, in an increasingly evident and embarrassing way, what I spontaneously define as schizophrenia. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, could you allow me to speak without this annoying buzz? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, let the senator perform his speech. At first, in fact, we had a blind, obsessed fury, which prompted the Minister of Justice to issue the decree-law in question as a matter of urgency; a fury that immediately pays its limit, since the conditions set out in the premise of the decree-law and to justify its necessity and urgency no longer exist today: the curtains have been dismantled. At the same time, we are witnessing a real retreat, an eclipse of Minister Bonafede; an eclipse only partial because if on the one hand it continues to demonstrate, even with the absence of these days, its not wanting to continue to put its face on this affair, the same cannot be said for the provision that for purely numerical questions unfortunately will still be approved; perhaps also because, absit iniuria verbis, the astral conjunction of this legislative beginning is adversely affecting the relationship between the Movimento 5 Stars and the decree of urgency; a relationship that, even in the light of the destiny of the decree-law dignity, puts a little' in trouble, a little' too much in trouble. The real, tragic problem, however, is that it also puts many, too many Italians in trouble. This difficulty is already found in the title of this provision, since Minister Bonafede has decided to give new meaning to the word "involvement" of criminal proceedings and trials, because in Bari justice was in fact suspended, blocked, without having, however, the consequent ability to carry out this drastic choice in order to manage, in a mature and responsible way, the effects arising from such determination. For this reason, in a thousand ways we have asked the Guardasigilli to assume the role of extraordinary commissioner; we have asked and have done so in many, especially among the operators. It is a strong choice, perhaps the only one capable of calming the strength of the negative effects of the decree-law he wanted. Instead, the Minister lacked courage. On the other hand, it is known that, as Manzoni wrote: "the courage, one, if he does not have it, he can not give it." The Assembly is therefore about to approve a measure that is a sponge stroke: it cancels constitutional rights, waters down proceedings, drowns important distinctions, such as that between the substantive institution and the procedure of the prescription; it serves vinegar at the mouth of those lawyers who have decided not to suspend the deadline for the instalments of social security and tax charges. All this in order not to tangle the waters further with the clause of financial invariance, but - it is quite clear - it still needs to be clarified who will pay the notifications, since we continue to believe that the coverage by email of at least 60,000 notifications is impossible. What is most regrettable and regrettable in the commentary on the measure under discussion is the stubbornness, the total closure to the confrontation that Minister Bonafede had. He succeeded in a titanic work of recomposition of a historically very jagged front. He succeeded in compacting, discontenting them, magistrates, lawyers, administrative of the Bari court: all agree in bitterly contesting the decree-law and its contents. Is it possible everyone's wrong? Is it possible that there has been no doubt that perhaps the act under consideration today is perfectible, as has always been taught? Is it possible that there was no room to accommodate even some minimal sanding, thus leaving indicatively open by the Government the willingness to confront and dialectic? The answer is as simple as peremptory: a dry "no". Minister Bonafede preferred, if anything, to anticipate, in a worrying and dystopic way, the conception that the 5 Star Movement seems to feed on Parliament, its noble places and its authoritative representatives, and that the CEO, Casaleggio, has vacated in an interview of a couple of days ago. In direct and direct confrontation with the representatives voted by the people in a democratic way, he preferred the one-way communication of the direct Facebook, except then capitular and return to Canossa in front of the disturbing shadows that are incumbent on the identification of the new headquarters of the court of Bari. In the lack of rethinking and therefore correction of course, proper to those who have that sense of hindsight that is not an indication of weakness, but on the contrary a demonstration of intelligence, it is therefore rooted not only the conviction that the solution produced by this Executive is completely wrong, but also the judgment on an ostentatious deafness to any permeability aimed at seeking a wise synthesis, and instead the stubborn closure in a fateful oltranzism, inappropriate and harmful. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u138	She's registered to speak Senator Minuto. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u139	Mr President, the question of Bari's Palagiustice has its roots, not as has been said a few minutes ago, in 2010, but in 2005, when the then mayor effectively prevented the realization of the project of the Pizzarotti di Parma company, to achieve a unique pole of justice, what the city of Bari already wanted time. In that project, winner of a market research, there would certainly have been the solution to the long-standing issue of judicial construction in Bari. It would also have avoided the occurrence of the absurd and ignoble picture outlined these days. In fact, it is sadly known to all that, following the technical investigation entrusted by the prosecutor of the Republic of Bari, Dr. Giuseppe Volpe, to the engineer Vitone, whose outcome resulted in the potential danger of collapse of the structure where the criminal justice was administered in Bari, followed the suspension of the agibilità of the palace, signed by Mayor Decaro. Thus, between the unbelief and the full emergency, on May 26, three tents with chemical baths outside the court were mounted in the dirt parking lot in order to allow, in a surreal atmosphere, the formal celebration of the hearings on the calendar, in order to arrange the postponement of all ordinary criminal processes; a postponement granted without a vision of the future and only to buffer the emergency. I am not going to add what happened in our city in Bari: imagine three tents with heat and insects; even there was a summer flood following which one of the tents was made unworkable and dismantled. This dramatic situation lasted for almost a month, from 28 May to 22 June, during which magistrates, chancellors and lawyers were forced to exercise their work under conditions unworthy and indecorous, far from the idea of a civil country. To put an end to this clown (because, gentlemen, it was a clown), the decree-law of the Government that suspended ordinary criminal activity in the Apulian capital until 30 September next. So, after a month, since July 1, 2018, the tent city was dismantled in the dirt park of the Palagiustice of Bari, but unfortunately this has not solved any problem at all. We must not accept that the permanence for more than twelve years of the judicial offices within the stable at risk of collapse, well known to the political forces of government at both local and national level, must undoubtedly be traced back to the short-sighted action of those who have hindered in any way the realization of the project Pizzarotti. Those gentlemen forced the right workers to exercise justice and the citizens to take advantage of it in a building declared abusive since 2005, of which the serious structural problems were known, with the promise that it would be a temporary solution: for a short time - they said - just what it takes to find a valid and definitive alternative. Well, my dear gentlemen, twelve long years have passed since then. I repeat: twelve long years. Well, the consequences are before everyone's eyes and are translated into the most absolute degradation of the image of justice, into the demeaning consideration that criminal justice, among the cornerstones of every democracy, is denied in the Apulian capital. In fact, not only has the action of this person been aimed at resolving the problem of judicial construction, but it has been a decisive cause of what is still happening in Bari. In order to remedy the unforgivable errors committed in the past, important measures are needed, not least the realization that the solution to the judicial building issue can be found only in a serious and important intervention. It is no longer time for temporary transfers that then become definitive solutions, as happened in the past. The same applies to the suspension of the prescription provided for by the decree-law issued by the Government to deal with the emergency. This, my lords, is not the solution to the problem of the Palajustice, but rather it means downloading the obvious errors of politics to the citizens (unsuspected and accused). At the heart of everything - and here I am addressing the majority - should have been theirs, the citizens investigated or accused, who are investigated and put on trial even though they are absolutely innocent or who, however, are waiting to see their position defined. It is to these people that we have a duty to give concrete answers, which cannot be translated into the further expansion of the time of the process. These people have the right to be judged as soon as possible and it is unthinkable that, for a state deficit, they should pay citizens. In a civil and democratic state this should never happen, never, for any reason and it is our Constitutional Charter, it is the founding principles of our procedural system that impose it on us. This government - it is undeniable - has found itself faced with a difficult and complicated and appreciable situation is the attempt, albeit at times clumsy, to put an embankment to what has been done, or has not been done, in the past years. However, it cannot be accepted that everything that will be done from now on will be - this yes - the responsibility of those who govern. Today you have the opportunity to finally put an end to one of the most heartfelt and shameful pages of judicial building in our country, giving definite and definitive answers and having the courage to choose beyond the interests of individuals. All this bearing in mind, however, the values of our Constitution, broken in the face of the decision to suspend the prescription and listening to the cries, the concerns and suggestions of the Bari lawyer, especially of the youngest, who, approaching such a noble and ancient profession, are today unable to work and, at the same time, regularly subject to the obligations of contribution and tax. In this respect too, it is desirable, I would say, to intervene in favour of them. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u140	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u141	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u143	COMINANCES (PD). Mr President, today is 25 July. On July 25, 1943, exactly seventy-five years ago, fascism fell following the vote by the Grand Council on the agenda presented by Dino Grandi. A historical fact, apparently far away, but which instead still speaks to our democratic life today: that was the date that marked the first step towards the recovery of the democratic path for our country. It seemed like everything was finally over, the fascism, the war. That day many Italians went down to the square to celebrate. Instead, the country still had to live many dark months of civil war and confrontation with Nazi Fascism. There was the great partisan campaign, which led to 25 April 1945 and the definitive liberation of our country. Here, this is a founding date of the path to democracy in our country. Benito Mussolini, when he became head of the government, made some very heavy statements to the House of Deputies; he said: "I could make this House deaf and gray a bivouac of manipoli; I could press Parliament and build a government exclusively of fascists. I could; but I did not, at least in this first half, want to. We know how the story of our country continued. These days - and I am saying this with no intention of historically associating the two passages - there have been those who said that Parliament could also be abolished tomorrow. Then I say that we must be very careful, remembering also the historical path of our country, because representative democracy perhaps needs some restructuring and some adjustments, but one thing is to fix a process and a path that arise from an important history, another thing is to think of abolishing it even. In this House, above the Presidency, there is a sign that reminds us how the Italian Republic has been proclaimed as a garrison of public freedom and to the certainty of civil progress. The date of April 25, the date of the fall of fascism, continues to tell us that that is the road that we must continue, fixing, if necessary, the path of democracy. Next to that event there was an incredible initiative on the part of the Cervi family: the offer of a pastasciutta in the square to celebrate the fall of fascism, in the awareness or, better, in the hope, that really fascism and war were over. This initiative, for about twenty years, is repeated not only in the headquarters of the Cervi Institute, but in many Italian squares and cities. It will happen this evening in so many parts of Italy that many citizens will gather to relive the spirit of anti-fascism and resistance. I think it is nice to be able to remember this in this House and on this special day, seventy-five years after the fall of fascism. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u144	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u146	DI MICCO (M5S). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is just a few hours ago that there was a fire, yet another one still in progress, which hit an industrial waste storage and treatment site in the industrial area of Pascarola, in the province of Naples. The images that have been diffused are impressive; there is a very high black cloud that is covering the municipalities of Caivano, Orta di Atella, Crispano, which is visible miles away. It is a new ecological disaster, yet another, between the provinces of Naples and Caserta, in one of the most densely populated urban areas of Campania and that falls into that territory now sadly known as the Land of Fire. The institutions have been alerted and there have been police forces and firefighters, silent heroes in an unequal war that has lasted for too many years and to whom all our support and thanks go. This is yet another fire that in a short time has also invested several sites of storage and treatment of solid urban waste and this poses a big question also regarding the safety measures employed by operators authorized to treat waste in Campania. What is troubling, however, is that from the earliest evidence of today's fire, once again, it would seem to have an arsonous origin. The competent authorities are already working to shed light on this aspect which, if confirmed, would take on an unheard-of gravity to prove, if still needed, the existence of a well-established criminal design that invests the entire area of waste treatment and disposal in Campania. It is a criminal design that directly affects the health of an increasingly exasperated, increasingly tired people in Campania. It is no longer possible to postpone the introduction of specific, stringent security measures and also, because no, one could think of the militarization of those storage sites that insist in this area at high risk of criminal and unholy actions, to protect both the integrity of the sites themselves, and the health, or what remains of them, of the citizens of Campania. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u147	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-26.ana.u148	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday, July 26, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.48 p.m.
