ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u3	I communicate that on 29 May 2018 the following bill was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister of Economics and Finances (Conversion into law of Decree-Law 29 May 2018, n. 55, introducing further urgent measures in favour of the populations of the territories of the Abruzzo, Lazio, Marche and Umbria regions, affected by the seismic events that took place since 24 August 2016 (435).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 297. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report and the general debate took place. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the debate in this House and the various interventions by the political forces have expressed their appreciation for the valuable work done by the Special Commission, demonstrating that Parliament has shown interest in addressing the issue of Alitalia. The need to fill the information gap led, in the Special Commission, to request and initiate, in accordance with Article 48 of the Senate Regulation, thanks also to the support of all parliamentary groups, a survey of Alitalia's economic, patrimonial and financial situation. The findings have proven the consolidation policies initiated by the Commissioners, but they have also highlighted, in addition to the management criticalities of the previous administrations that have succeeded, the many difficulties still to be overcome. Despite the first results obtained, moreover from the contrasting values, the final economic result of the commissioner period from May to December 2017 ends with a loss of 160 million euros, without considering the high financial burdens, the non-recurring matches and taxes. With regard to the loans granted under this procedure, the survey also revealed that, on 30 April 2018, the cash balance was only EUR 769 million, insufficient to guarantee not only the repayment of the loan and the accrued interest, but also the near survival of Alitalia. Time, therefore, to avoid yet another failure is very short. The concise and fruitful debate, first in the Special Commission and then in this House, highlighted the pressing, urgent and urgent need to resolve this important national dispute, which is linked to four fundamental aspects. First of all, there is the possible process of sale that has already been talked about for a long time and for which fundamental will be the choice of subjects buyers in order not to disperse an important strategic asset of the Country. Secondly, there is the search for new investors able to guarantee those fundamental resources in order to allow Alitalia to possess a solid assets able to buy back the market of long-range more profitable. Thirdly, there is the drafting of an industrial plan that can guarantee cost rationality and profitable management. Finally, we need a highly professional and conflict-free management that can guarantee economics, solidity to the entire corporate organization and sharing with the goals of pure collective well-being. It will therefore be the task of the new Government, legitimized in its powers, to place among the central themes of the political debate the topic under discussion and to plan the relaunch - hopefully definitive - of the still beloved and felt flagship company. The time available is not so much and, in case of lack of timely solutions, it will be inevitable to witness yet another failure, from which would result serious and uncontrollable employment, social and economic problems. Before concluding, I feel the need to thank the Special Commission official on the urgent acts of the Government, in the person of Dr. Alessandro Goracci, and all his collaborators for the support and excellent work they have done during the examination of this decree-law, as well as all the other measures assigned to the same Commission. Finally, special thanks must be paid to the President of the Special Commission, Senator Vito Crimi, and to the entire Bureau for its work, as well as to the fellow senators who have examined and improved this measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u6	The representative of the Government may speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u7	Mr President, I give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u8	We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1 of the draft law. I note that the amendments refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted. I would remind you that, in accordance with Rule 100 (9) of the Rules of Procedure, as amended by the recent reform, a single debate takes place on all the amendments and agendas submitted to an article. Only one representative per group will be able to speak for five minutes during the presentation. An additional senator is also allowed for each group for no more than five minutes. I would like to remind everyone that, as established by the Conference of Leaders, the fixed voting system is now in place. I therefore call on each of my colleagues to vote from their posts. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 1 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u9	Mr President, I would ask you and my fellow senators to excuse me if I am going to make a mistake during my speech, but I am at the forefront. In particular, I have not yet understood why, having voted about three months ago, no one has yet come to this House to ask for trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u10	This has absolutely nothing to do with the subject under consideration. You're talking about the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u11	FAZZOLARI (FdI). There are things I don't understand. I'm in the first place, and I apologize. The amendment that we have tabled and which I would like to explain had already been tabled in the Special Commission for the Government's Urgent Acts, but unfortunately it had not been adopted there, which is why the Brothers of Italy decided to bring it back to the Chamber. In essence, it should be borne in mind that it is not possible to talk about the national Alitalia carrier without also talking about the airport network. As in all that concerns the country system, in theory, first we make the strategy on the networks - it is valid as an example for the railway transport - and then we speak of the eventual service made on that net: the Italian railway system previews RFI, to public property, and then a competition made from the carriers on that public net. With regard to the system of air transport in Italy, today we are essentially talking about Alitalia, discussing the second extension - and therefore the third phase - of Alitalia's loan, without ever having discussed the consistency of this with the airport system. In our amendment, in particular... Senator Fazzolari, I have your agenda, not an amendment. FAZZOLARI (FdI). Excuse me, Mr President, you are right, it is one of the mistakes I have made. It is indeed the agenda of the G1.109 and not an amendment. Thank you. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u12	Colleagues, for those interested, the sitting has begun and Senator Fazzolari is trying to illustrate - with difficulty - his agenda. Please lower your voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u13	FAZZOLARI (FdI). The agenda that we have tabled, in essence, emphasizes the need to talk about the airport system as well: talking about Alitalia without doing so about the airport system is - in our opinion - a mistake. In particular, already the study One Works - KPMG - Nomisma of 2010 had been the basis for the National Plan airports of 2012. It has arrived then to the National Plan airports of 2014 without that the previous one had been revised and the change is not for little also for Alitalia. The 2012 Plan provided, in fact, that the airport of Fiumicino was intended mainly for long-haul transport, becoming in fact Alitalia's home, and that the low cost companies were instead relocated to a third airport of Lazio. This third airport of Lazio in the 2014 airport plan was eliminated, without explaining how the national air transport on Fiumicino would be reorganized nor what Alitalia would have been. This is the reason why today, on the agenda that we present, we ask the Government: to discuss again the National Plan airports; in particular regarding Fiumicino, to come back to reason on the initial hypothesis of 2010 - confirmed by ENAC in 2012 and reconfirmed by the Government even in July 2013 - that it provided for an airport plan that included the third airport of Lazio; consequently, to block the unnecessary speculation on the airport of Fiumicino, with a doubling of the airport that does not make any sense. The agenda therefore commits the Government to revise the national airport plan and to provide for a strengthening of the Fiumicino airport within the current airport structure. All this was asked why, in a great phase of confusion of the strategy on air transport, we find ourselves - without anyone has understood well neither how nor who has decided it - with a completely different plan that penalizes Italy, which is to have on its airport of reference also the low cost companies, and with a doubling of the airport chair of Fiumicino that penalizes the same city of Fiumicino and has no sense of airport logic. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u14	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u15	Mr President, on sub-amendment 1.1 (text 2)/100 I would like to give a favourable opinion, because it better clarifies the expiry of relations and, in agreement with the Government and the Commissioners, that this will simplify the information work. I also welcome amendment 1.1 (text 2) tabled by the Commission. With regard to the agenda G1.101, the opinion is in favour, although the premise is not quite acceptable, in the part where it is stated that the political uncertainty created after the elections on 4 March 2018 has hindered possible investors to define suitable offers, causing a slowing down of the procedure and in fact preventing its conclusion in due course.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u16	Excuse me, are you asking for a rewording of the text right now? Mr Turco, rapporteur. Yes, ma'am. On the other hand, on the agenda for G1,102, for reasons of opportunity, I would like to replace the words 'to provide', which is an imperative expression, with the following words: 'to consider whether to consider participation in Alitalia as 25%'. We are today in a situation of the absence of a legitimate government and such a commitment to spending would be a heavy cost on the budget, so it would be good to wait for the formation of a possible government. I express a favourable opinion on all other agendas, except on G1.109, for which I ask to reformulate the part that limits the commitment of the Government to the only strengthening of the airport of Fiumicino within the borders of the current airport.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u17	Mr President, the Government is returning to the will of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u20	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, the agenda for G1102, for which a rewording has been proposed, is the Commission's agenda, and it seems quite unusual to me that the rapporteur is proposing a rewording today, partly because during the debate there was a debate which had led to mediation. It should be understood whether the parties who accepted it agree with the rewording proposed by the rapporteur. I think there is a technical problem: does the rapporteur have the authority to request the redrafting of an agenda presented by the Commission in its entirety? [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u21	Senator Ferrari, from a technical point of view, it is possible for the rapporteur to table amendments and agendas in the Assembly, including during the course of the work, as well as to reformulate, without prejudice to the possibility for individual senators not to recognize themselves in the proposed reformulation and, consequently, to vote against. I would ask the rapporteur whether he intends to vote in any case. Mr Turco, rapporteur. Yes, Mr President, while maintaining the rewording of the proposed agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u24	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I also consider the request to amend the agenda at our time not as irritating as it is in substance. However, in view of the spirit of cooperation, I am in favour of rewording our proposal. Now, let us not use the argument that the agenda would raise a problem of cover because it does not hold up, because it is an agenda. However, in a constructive spirit, I support the rapporteur's proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u27	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, like Senator Errani, we also welcome the rewording of the rapporteur, but we reiterate that this is a very irrational and unusual form. At least it would seem right to give the rapporteur the opportunity to check directly with the members of the Commission that there is an agreement on rewording so that it can be presented on behalf of the Commission as a whole. However, in the hope that this small accident of irritality will soon turn into a ritual that takes into account the respect of all political parties, and in this confidence, we welcome the proposed reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u28	I would ask the rapporteur for clarification. Does the agenda remain in its original wording? Mr Turco, rapporteur. Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Therefore, the opinion on the agenda G1,100 is completely in favour, while on the agendas G1,101, G1,102 and G1,109 reformulations have been proposed. On the remaining agendas, the opinion was in favour. Is that correct? Mr Turco, rapporteur. Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u31	Mr Vallardi (L-SP). Mr President, I would like to announce the vote in favour of the League Group on agendas G1,101 and G1,102 as reworded. In the Commission, the League Group abstained precisely because it did not fully agree with the original wording. I would also like to say to my fellow Senator of the Democratic Party that until now two months of complete irrationality have passed in the proceedings of this House. Therefore, the irrational definition of revising a measure in this House, modifying what had been decided in the Commission, seems to me to be normal in general irritality.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u32	Senator Bertacco, do you accept the rewording of the agenda G1.109? BERTACCO (FdI). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.1 (text 2)/100.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u35	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, in this parliamentary term too, should I ask for an electronic vote, or can you, automatically, as the Rules of Procedure allow, arrange for simultaneous ballots by electronic procedure for all the votes scheduled for today? [[Applause from Senator Lucidi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u36	As you are not a Holding Company, we need to verify that there is support from 15 Senators for your request. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1 (text 2)/100, tabled by Senator Cioffi. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.1 (text 2), tabled by the Commission, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,100 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on agenda G1,100 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on the agenda G1.101 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on the agenda G1.102 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on agenda G1.103, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on agenda G.1.104, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on agenda G1.105 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on agenda G1106 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on agenda G1107, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on agenda G1.108, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.109 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bertacco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u39	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, the Autonomy Group will vote in favour of the Alitalia Decree-Law. It will be a technical vote, dictated by the phase of passage between the old and the new Executive, with the hope that for the flag company can open a new phase, with the entry of subjects who know how to value its potential and finally close the phase of the police management and financing bridge from the State. Alitalia's importance in relation to its interests cannot be called into question. Moreover, the increase of the passengers and the revenues in the first half of this year is the proof of the potential of the company, provided at the base there are a careful management and the construction of a qualified offer for the domestic and international passengers. The hope is that potential buyers will be able to take care of it by safeguarding jobs. With regard to the amendments made to the Special Commission, our Group, represented by Senator Laniece, abstained. We believe that if - on the one hand - there is a need to acquire more information on the situation of Alitalia, on the other, there is a risk of sending a negative message on the management of the commissioner, which instead - as the data of this semester show - is interpreting its role in a positive way. This is a delicate aspect, also thanks to the investigations of Civitavecchia's proxy, which lit a left light on the 400 million holes dating back to the first year of Ethiad management and on the transfer to the latter of particularly valuable slots. It will be up to the new government to follow with particular attention the evolution of the negotiations, in the hope that we can finally close a situation of labor that has lasted for too many years now. And it is with this hope that I will reiterate the Group's vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u42	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, the decree-law under consideration, which is among other things the first act of this Senate, the first legislative intervention before this House, is absolutely important, even if it concerns simply the postponement to 31 October 2018 of the deadline for the completion of the tendering procedures. I would like to remind you that with this decree-law there is an extension until 15 December 2018 of the duration of the financing for consideration of 600 million euros, which had already been prepared by Decree-Law No 50 of 2017 and subsequently increased. It is a decree-law that, beyond the specific question of the extension, brings down in this House, at a time even so difficult and very confused of our political life, a story that perhaps is also emblematic of all the wrong choices that have been made in our country on fundamental assets from the industrial point of view and in this case also on our flag company. The story of Alitalia, with a worsening of the total conditions of crisis in the last two years, represents exactly and plastically - I dare say - just the symbol of the failure of the corporate and industrial policies put in place in Alitalia and beyond. The company, in fact, was admitted to the extraordinary administration procedure after the application filed on May 2 by the company itself, in which there was an absolutely dramatic financial situation from the point of view of the debt exposure. That instance of admission to the extraordinary administration procedure followed the negative outcome - rightly, in my opinion - of the referendum with which Alitalia's employees rejected the minutes of agreement signed on 13 April 2017 between the Government, the company and the unions. I would like to remind you that the whole affair of Alitalia has thrown into despair and left in the middle of the road families and people who not only believed that that was a real possibility of work, but that they had given life in some way also to an important and generous effort from the point of view of professionalism. Well, that consultation developed with regard to a recovery plan which once again focused solely on cutting labour costs, which today is much lower - I would like to remind you here - also compared to the main competitors in the sector. By the way, that plan was mainly focused on short-term savings, before the investments necessary for the relaunch of the company. Once again, sacrifices on the one hand: while in less than ten years the workers of sacrifices have made many of them, once again there is a real industrial plan for relaunching and investing that is absolutely credible. We cannot consider, therefore, the failure of the Alitalia company as an inevitable destiny: we can act, we can re-launch it, we can make different strategic choices, we can give back a history and a decorum to a company that is an industrial and strategic asset fundamental for our country. Therefore, an intervention is necessary that excludes any hypothesis of scaling or, once again, of stew of the company and that can instead re-launch with force the perspective. We think - and we have expressed this with an agenda that has been approved, among other things, although with the formula "to assess the opportunity" - that it is certainly necessary to build an adequate international industrial partnership for Alitalia, but also a strong commitment of the Government and the State to invest, directly or through subsidiaries, for a minimum quota of 25%. This dry proposal of ours, perhaps to someone, may have seemed exaggerated, but it comes from a very serious reasoning. We believe that this initiative is indispensable in order to promote the relaunch of Alitalia and to guarantee the integrity of all the activities carried out. So you have to keep Alitalia together and not accept the stew. The second element concerns the fact that Alitalia's situation, which led the Government to choose the extraordinary administration, has been so critical for many years due to serious errors of directors and managers. Was it just mistakes? Or is there something else? In our opinion, there may also be something else. The mistakes have concerned many choices made in recent years, such as - I give some examples - unfavourable supply contracts compared to market prices (for this reason I wonder if it was just errors) and inefficient general costs that management has not affected, except - once again - download to the workers (then let's see their bonuses and liquidations). Finally, I am also thinking of the inexplicable implementation of a business reduction strategy without any effective intervention on inefficient cost management, thus seriously exacerbating the economic situation. During the hearings last year of Minister Calenda on the start of the extraordinary administration, the question of accountability to those responsible for this bad management was also strongly raised. The Minister had recognized the very serious error caused by the management of the company, claiming that the commissioners would have had to take any necessary initiative. Furthermore, it was envisaged that interested parties would have access to information on the causes of insolvency through the publication of a report, but it did not provide any clear information and information on the causes and responsibilities. That is why we have tabled a second agenda, approved in the Commission and just now in this House, to ask the Commissioners for a comprehensive report on the actions of directors which will enable us to ascertain the reasons and, therefore, to promote the consequences and possible actions of responsibility. This is a matter of seriousness and transparency and we believe it is essential to act in this way, all the more so after the fraudulent bankruptcy investigation conducted by the Public Prosecutor of Civitavecchia. Of course we hope that there will be clear and precise effects for the relaunch of the company. For all these reasons, to date the Mixed-Free and Equal Group will vote in favour of the conversion of the decree-law under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u45	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no escape from anyone that this is the first measure of the new parliamentary term to come to this House. We would not like that the measure concerning Alitalia (what was once the flagship company, symbol and flagship of Italy in the world, as the rapporteur said before), which is today in a state of necessity, is the signal, unfortunately negative, of an Italy in need. We would not want the very fact that a measure to prevent the failure of the company once it was a symbol of Italy was the symbol and emblem of a country in need. That Alitalia is in a state of necessity is also demonstrated by the embarrassment of the government in office, even if only for the ordinary administration, in the face of the measure under consideration. A government that is frivolous of respecting the European rules, but that proposes a further extension, also with reference to the loan that was granted, then extended and, finally, further extended. Moreover, according to what the rapporteur said a moment ago, in the state of affairs, where immediate reimbursement was requested, the company would be with books in court for failure. We are being asked for a further extension which would, in fact, lead the Commissioner's management and the loan to well cross European terms with regard to the loan that the European Union grants under these conditions as rescue aid. Everyone knows that this limit is six months, while in this case we reach eighteen months. I am talking about a government that was set up to comply with European rules and that now gives us a measure and a Alitalia with a price of 900 million, no longer in the state of affairs that can be repaid with the interests of 10% that ripen every day, not indifferent, and in violation of European rules. I would remind all the senators present here that an in-depth investigation by the Commission (which has made a statement to this effect) is already under way, both for the duration of the loan, which should not have exceeded six months (while here we are at more than twelve and at the request of six others), and for the size of the aid, which the Commission considers to exceed the minimum necessary limit. This Commission investigation was announced on 23 April. After the Commission announces an investigation for having already crossed, in the Commission's view, the maximum time necessary and possible and also the maximum amount necessary and eligible, the Government in office, which is given to be European, extends for a further six months. As if to say: we sign you for verification, you show us the documents and, in the meantime, we continue to operate. I believe that this is a time bomb, which can explode in the coming months (even if we hope it does not happen), left to the next government in charge and legitimized by our Parliament. The second issue that I would like Members to reflect on is that Commissioner's management started more than a year ago. I wonder one thing, apart from the judgment that each of us can give, also in the light of the fact-finding investigation that the Commission has rightly initiated (because what is emerging is to be brought to light in Parliament and also in the country). Very well, the Commissioners started their work more than a year ago: we are at the second extension, therefore the third six-monthly term. What has been done at this time to achieve the goal of selling Alitalia to a few women who may allow us to still have a national carrier? What has been done this year? I ask the Government, which gives the guidelines to this effect; because the commissioners have made it clear that they have followed the Government's direction. What has the Government done, which in addition to being pro-European, in this case violates the European rules in a blatant and repeated manner, with the risk that we will then obviously pay the costs of this violation? What has a government that appears to be a decision-maker in industrial policy done to achieve the objective it set itself with the first measure of more than a year ago and with the commissionership, that is, the sale of Alitalia? And why was the sale of Alitalia not made in this period, in an optimal international condition? We all know that one of the fundamental conditions for a carrier to be in the field is the price of oil. The price of oil, until a few weeks ago, was at its lowest. If therefore, against a historical minimum of the price of the oil, when the price of the oil was congenial for a possible buyer, has not been put on sale Alitalia, I wonder how it can be done today, when the price of the oil in a few months has gone from the historical minimum (optimum condition to sell to the best interested buyer) to its historical maximum. Therefore, if the conditions for selling Alitalia have not been created this year, when the conditions were better on the oil market, how will it be sold in the coming months, by the end of October? Will the third extension be enough or will it take the fourth? Moreover, the Commissioners - and not just them - tell us that the problem of Alitalia is the fact that it has aircraft that are now old and a year and a half more makes them even older: therefore they are still less valuable than a year ago, because for every year that passes the plane it gets older and it is worth less. If it wasn't sold when the aircraft had one year's less life, we wonder what value it could be sold to today. Moreover, they also tell us that Alitalia would have its place in the international market, if it had long-range aircraft and therefore, in order to make it competitive, it would be necessary to renew the entire fleet of aircraft in a short time. Too bad that an investment of at least one billion per year for the coming years would be needed to renew the aircraft fleet, as revealed in the survey. Who puts it this billion a year, for the next few years, to renew an air park that is made up of old, not long-range, uneven aircraft - that belongs to different manufacturers and therefore create a higher maintenance cost - and few compared to the possibility that a company can be in the market? So, I wonder: if the efficient Government has failed to create the conditions for Alitalia to be sold to a potential buyer this year to guarantee the national carrier in better market conditions than it is today, how can this happen in the coming summer months? For this reason we are very concerned, we are even more concerned after the cognitive investigation and we are even more concerned after, happens to be, in these days the attorney of Civitavecchia has opened an investigation for fraudulent bankruptcy against the previous administrators, sent by the one who bought the company. [[Recalls of the President]] We are concerned - and I conclude - also with the fact that the 2016 budget has not yet been published, when an action by the prosecutor of the Republic is in place for bankruptcy. Since the President, in the long run, I think he has called me to respect the times, I conclude by saying that we are really very concerned that the Government, in office only for the ordinary administration, has given us this explosive dossier both with regard to State aid and the European Union, and with respect to the accounts that have emerged - in fact, the accounts are already in such a condition that they cannot return the loan - both for the conditions of the airline, which has an increasingly outdated fleet, compared to an oil market that today is at its peak. In the meantime, however, in order to try to give an address to those who will come, we have presented and received three agendas, which have their precise political significance. Senator Fazzolari has exposed the last one and concerns the airport system, because the greatest impact - as ENAC claims - of the Alitalia disaster is precisely in the airport of Fiumicino and its failure to take off. The second order of business is on the sale of slots. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator Urso. Mr Urso (FdI). The third is on the so-called stew. We have given addresses, which have been transposed and we hope that the government will then send them to the commissioners. In the meantime, in view of the reality that is delivered to us and the state of necessity in which Alitalia is located, we can only express an abstention on the measure under consideration: it is an abstention characterized by a very vigilant approach, such as that which the Country, Alitalia and those who believe us have towards the destiny of our national carrier. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u48	MARGIOTTA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, I will say immediately in advance that the decree-law before our examination, which, as the rapporteur has pointed out, essentially contains two technical and equally inevitable differences, weighs on the climate of political uncertainty and, even if this sentence has been taken away from the text of the agenda that we in the PD had presented, is a fact. It is a fact because, many days after March 4, it would have been important to have a government in its full capacity; a government that could finally take final decisions. We have concluded our interventions in the Special Commission, hoping that a government, which at that time seemed preached to be able to be constituted, could take important and serious decisions. We have now plunged into a climate of enormous political uncertainty in which, minute by minute, things evolve and we do not know what the point of arrival will be. Alitalia's is one of the most serious issues that would need governability; above all governance done in a serious way, with the same seriousness with which the government in office - still for a few days - addressed the issue. With a more than appropriate metaphor, we have been told in the special Commission that, while we are debating, it risks running out of fuel. Just a metaphor that is almost real: if the decisions will not be taken in a short time, we will find ourselves in a situation before 2 May 2017, when at some point it seemed that the planes remained on the ground and could no longer get up in flight, losing that confidence that, as was well said yesterday by Senator Malpezzi, is one of the first foundations when it comes to aircraft, flights, transport of this type. I will not dwell on the history of recent years; we should go back at least to 2008, when the solution to Alitalia's problems was identified in CAI: it did not go well. In 2014 it seemed that the solution offered by Etihad was of absolute prestige and value, also due to the importance that those investors had at international level. Unfortunately, even in this case, things did not go well. The industrial plan was rejected in 2017 because the board of directors considered it binding that the workers appreciated and approved that plan. I don't go into the substance of that decision. The fact is that that decision determined immediately after the transition to the extraordinary administration. It is at that moment that the Government comes into play, represented here for the MISE by Deputy Minister Bellanova, Deputy Minister Morando and undersecretary Amici. A dramatic moment when bookings were cancelled, people no longer knew if they could make the ticket with Alitalia and there were only 74 million euros in cash, with a debt of 3 billion euros. The Government intervened with a loan of 600 million, which was necessary to avoid an interruption of the public service. He spoke by appointing a commissioner, who, in the opinion of the PD, carried out his task in a very positive way. Mr Urso wondered why he did not accept the offers that have come so far: because they are completely unsatisfactory. The first seven offers, those received by 15 October 2017, would have been harmful to Alitalia and the country. The terms have been reopened, there are three on the table today: Lufthansa, easyJet and Wizz Air. The best, which would seem to be Lufthansa's, would, however, involve the dismissal of 2,000 out of 12,000 operators - it is therefore not a choice that can be made lightly - as well as interventions on costs, destinations, corporate dimensions. The Decree-Law under consideration provides for two dates: the postponement to 31 October of the transfer procedure and the return of the entire financing by December 2018. Members of the PD who spoke yesterday, in addition to the aforementioned Senators Malpezzi and Cirinna and Senator Pittella, highlighted the positive aspects of the work carried out by the College of Commissioners. To mention very few things: rediscovered confidence of the customers, increase of revenues from 5 to 6 percent; increase of the passengers and increase of the bookings. Their action, of course, has been guided, supported and encouraged by the Government, but we are absolutely proud and proud of this. On the contrary, it is hoped that whatever the solution is, we will at least continue on these fundamental issues. And again, more revenue, with the enhancement of long-range routes. We know very well that one of Alitalia's problems is having given way to long-range routes, which are the most profitable ones, and pointed in recent years - I must say faultily - on internal routes, just as high speed changed the rules of life and travel for each of us. They have implemented managerial solutions after years of inefficiency and the bargaining of operating costs. Regarding the fleet, it has not been said that, unfortunately, many Alitalia's aircraft are leasing and that, even, it was possible, through mere bargaining, to go from leasing costs of 850,000 euros to 500,000 euros per month. It wasn't even a real lease, it was a long term rental. In the opinion of the Democratic Party, the company needs to further upgrade long-range routes, through aircraft and fleet, and needs to improve the exploitation of Linate. In the last parliamentary term, a very influential member of Forza Italia, Lombardy, argued in the Commission that perhaps someone should make self-criticism about Malpensa's choice, which was not really a very happy choice. From Linate were abandoned the long-range routes, leaving space to foreign companies that do a service that Alitalia no longer does. Instead, Linate must return to being central in life, not only of Lombards and Milanese, but in the life of the country and, therefore, of Alitalia. We need to improve the operational processes. The time set by the measure is very short. And let us return to political uncertainty. We hoped that before the summer we could choose between two macro scenarios, which are the two possible options that have at this time the country and the government (when there will be). The sale to a foreign company, taking into account that the best of the offers arrived, which I described in a few words, is not considered satisfactory. Or - and this is what the Democratic Party hopes and believes - the relaunch of the company through new investors, able to pursue the objectives foretold in a virtuous, convinced and convincing way. Investors that cannot be invented either the government in office or what will come. Investors whose rules are dictated by the market, which we in the Democratic Party maintain and do not give up. No further support measures, which we do not believe and which, moreover, would not be allowed by the European Union. Colleagues, let's be clear that the third scenario would be the default of the company. The default of the company means losing a jewel of the country. To renounce to a great operating company, what a great country must have, means loss of know-how, productivity and above all of jobs. We in the Democratic Party want to prevent this third dramatic option. That's why the government worked, and that's good. That is why the College of Commissioners has worked, and that is why we are voting in favour of this measure. We hope that the same sense of responsibility, the same will to have at heart, above all, the jobs of our fellow citizens, will be felt, perceived and lived by the other parties represented in this House. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u51	RIVOLTA (L-SP). Mr President, this morning the Senate process ends in the Chamber with the vote for the conversion of Decree-Law No 38 of 2018, which contains urgent measures to ensure the completion of the procedures for the disposal of Alitalia's business complexes. In particular, the deadline for the completion of these procedures is deferred from 30 April 2018 to 31 October 2018, the duration of the financing for consideration of EUR 600 million is extended to 15 December 2018. The financing is increased by an additional €300 million, with the abolition of the provisions that provided for the refund within the operating period. During the work of the Special Commission, we held hearings with all the parties involved. So, we've heard all the union acronyms: FILT-CGIL, FIT-CISL, UIL Transport, UGL Air transport, ANPAC, ANPAV, USB, CUB transport and Flight. Again, we heard Professors Ugo Arrigo and Gaetano Intrieri, both in favour of a return to nationalization. We have heard the extraordinary Commissioners Gubitosi, Laghi and Paleari, the Chairman of ENAC Riggio and the Monitoring Committee in the administrative procedure. During the entire survey, followed by all Commissioners with great attention, a picture of incredible complexity emerged, with the awareness on the part of all that those who had responsibility for management in the past led to a state of financial insolvency and the extraordinary administration of the company for bad and even incomprehensible choices since they took place at a time of expansion of the air transport sector and, as already mentioned, of low fuel costs. In the last management with Etihad, incredibly disadvantaged contracts have been concluded. This has led to a state of anger and frustration in all of us - it has been felt in the speeches in general yesterday - because we are all saying that Alitalia is the national company of which we must be proud of the quality of services, the training of staff and pilots. To see it distracted in this way and to see that all those who had responsibility did not act in the national interest, but of other outrages. Disadvantaged contracts have been systematically concluded for fuel agreements, aircraft chartering, outsourcing of maintenance, ticket booking costs and personnel courses already trained in Abu Dhabi. And I add the sale of fine slots and flight cuts on long-range routes. It has already been said by colleagues that, on the basis of a 2015 analysis, a popular belief that Alitalia's staff cost more than anyone else and that there was a higher level of pay has been broken down. Alitalia staff receive salaries in line with those of low cost companies. Among other things, there is also the theme of productivity. In this, too, the Commissioners have shown the staff that they have made a great effort and have spoken of a climate of absolute cooperation. Think that an operator in Alitalia moves 2,200 passengers, while in Lufthansa the ratio is one to 900. The Commissioners, despite the referendum on the restructuring plan proposed to workers in 2017, despite the absence of quorums, 68 percent voted no, reduced staff who did not reduce the quality of service. Some trade unions claim that there has been workers, with increased productivity and reduced wages, a hypothetical financing of 700 million. Let's see now the three most interesting offers that have become apparent. Lufthansa is only interested in the flight part. So, the theme of breakup is referred to. It actually presents perhaps the most serious offer. It puts 300 million at the negotiating level, but calls for guarantees on rehabilitation and a reduction of staff of 2,000, which are really many. It seems strange - but these are indiscretions - that in other locations he announced he wanted to hire 8,000 new employees, including a part from Air Berlin, of which Lufthansa bought the bulk of the assets. We do not understand, therefore, why Alitalia is asked to support a huge effort and to reduce its staff by 2,000 units, the costs of which will be borne by the State, even if there is an idea of increasing staff. The second one is easyJet, the English low cost company, also interested in the part of Alitalia's flight: it has not explained a real offer, but obviously asks to proceed in the negotiations in front of a healed Alitalia. Finally there is Wizz Air, the Hungarian low cost company, very recent, having been born in 2003, which is interested in the short haul. It is a company that has grown considerably in recent years and will even bring the number of aircraft from 100 to 130, with a passenger traffic that has stabilised at 223 million in 2016. In 2017 it already reached 500 routes and 144 destinations and has as main hub Budapest. Already from these three most interesting and serious offers we understand how the idea is to break the company and be faced with a restored society. This transformation is entirely the responsibility of the State and the Commissioner's management. We do not see great prospects, but the League Group will also vote in favour of this measure to give the possibility of another three months for the search for new interesting offers. Mr Urso's considerations remain, which will actually be more unfavourable in the new negotiations than in the past: the price of fuel has gone up and the situation has become complicated. In the course of the cognitive investigation we received suggestions and warnings also from the president of ENAC, Vito Riggio, who told us that, even following the example of the United States, where the aircraft are rented, it would not really be appropriate to proceed to new purchases. The other suggestion, on a clear need, is to try to pursue a recovery even coming back on the long-range routes, where the space is greater, where the possibilities of development and expansion are remarkable and where the qualities of our national carrier could make the difference: the quality of the services offered by Alitalia would make the difference. Many other considerations should be taken into account on the four types of aircraft in operation: really crazy choices have been made and I think someone will pay for such bad and unconscious decisions. Alitalia can have a future. I hope, together with my Group, that our interlocutors will be seriously interested not only in profits, but in a revival that can also see a dignified position in our country. We will see it in the months to come and it will certainly be at the heart of the interest of the next Government that we hope one day, rather near, will come. [[Applause from the L-SP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u54	PICHETTO FRATIN (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the decree-law in conversion, which concerns urgent measures for the company complex that is owned by Alitalia SpA, is in fact a measure that simply shifts the deadline of 30 April 2018, so it is an extension as regards both the obligations relating to expressions of interest and the repayment of the loan that Alitalia received from the State. In the course of the examination by the Special Commission on urgent acts of the Government, however, it was possible to deepen the subject through the hearing of both Commissioners and experts in the field. As a result of this, the text was sent to the Assembly with a single addition, which was voted on here this morning, which received the vote against by our Group. These are the first two amendments voted by this Assembly, which require Alitalia's Commissioners to submit a report containing detailed information to the Chambers every sixty days from the entry into force of this measure. Our vote against - which is why, even if it has already happened - was precisely about the excessively strict obligations: after all, Alitalia Commissioners are authorized by a procedure which is the one provided for by the Marzano law and which, as such, must comply with the same rules as the other application of that law, rules which, moreover, must not be weighed down by roles which, in our opinion, it is unfair for Parliament to be represented and which must be the responsibility of the governments. Moreover, we find ourselves in procedures with elements of confidentiality and sensitivity. Unfortunately, in this evaluation phase, the negative result of the wedding with Etihad, which impoverished the flag society, with a reduction in the fleet and a type of aircraft that is currently difficult to organize, as has also emerged from the talks with the commissioners. At this moment, Alitalia is nationalised: the mandate of the original rule is to surrender and safeguard; there is a risk of infringement of the extension of the loan, of course, but here too I believe there should be a comparison with the European Union. The national interest, at this juncture, must find a composition with the rules of the European Union, but let us remember that the financing by the State is not in itself prohibited by the European Union: it must take place at market prices and, in this case, the market price, applying a rule of 2008, is very high (more than 10%). Several theories then expressed themselves on why of the 900 million euros, which seem too much compared to the amounts issued by the previous subjects who have alternated (the sum of which was almost 800, adding 300 to 400) and which are cash. I would like to point out, however, that, in order to have a minimum of confidence on the part of suppliers, those who are ill must guarantee more than those who are well. With regard to the duration beyond the six months, the same applies: as already mentioned, Alitalia is not an ordinary company, it is however the company that represents a Country (then, the legal definition of flag company is a whole other issue). Alitalia has almost completely abandoned the long haul in the Etihad period. In the last few years before the extraordinary administration he has held an industrial strategy exactly opposite to what the flag company of a country like ours, which has artistic goods and cultural and tourist resources (as they have had the opportunity to express colleagues of my Group also intervened) superior to the rest of the world (set all together the rest of the world) and which is at the center of the Mediterranean, with the possibility of being a great hub. Unfortunately, this is not the case: only 41 of 118 aircraft are owned. In the report, someone equals us to Lufthansa, which has 800 planes, to understand us. Very few long-range routes and for some realities, such as North America, Alitalia was excluded from agreements made by other groups. We have been pleased to learn, however, that, partly thanks to trade union agreements, the question, raised several times, of the surplus of personnel, mainly on land, is in the process of being resolved, even though there is still a considerable share of Cassa Integrazione. However, I would like to remind you that in the journey, starting from years a little 'far, Alitalia has increased altogether from 22,000 to 10,000 employees. Forza Italia also carefully evaluates the action of the commissioners, who must nevertheless operate in the meshes established by the Marzano law and, even with respect to the criticism followed by the hearing, I believe that the action to open the files for fraudulent bankruptcy following their report, which is in the newspapers of these days, means that they have not been inactive in the reports to the judicial bodies. Colleagues, it is not a matter of ownership, it is not the important rescue of a company, moreover all public, all private or mixed, with the evaluations that could be made: it is a national question that puts to our attention the question of what path of development we want to undertake as a country. We are a country that can be a tourism mine, that has a third of the gross domestic product linked to the relationship with foreign countries and that - alas - also has a third of the public debt linked abroad, and these days we are realizing it. Not being central in the air transport sector is collective damage, which is why Alitalia is not just any company. The risk of marginalisation such as the outskirts of Paris or Frankfurt is very high. I would like to remind you that the stay of tourists internationally is 70% in the country that is referred to as a hub, so a tourist, for example a Chinese who arrives in Paris, will remain in France in 70% of cases. It is also an economic issue and the organization of the tour operator, therefore a reason for logic. If, with a company in balance, Fiumicino, Malpensa and Linate (which instead can make long-range routes and does so with other companies) become a reference point, the whole country benefits. The property, as I said, is not a problem. These are the rules that we have to define. This Parliament, therefore, acts and Commissioners are accompanied over the next six months in the consolidation and revitalization action undertaken. There is evaluation, you can buy back the slots sold and you find the financial or management partner, as per the legal mandate. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senate of the Republic, a digression has allowed me with respect to the specific issue Alitalia: the President of the Special Commission, Senator Vito Crimi (which I thank, together with the rapporteur), has declared inadmissible on the subject - and I believe correctly, because other amendments to the subject - both of my Group and of other groups; for example, the colleagues of the League had tabled some important amendments on local authorities, which have been declared, precisely, inadmissible because they are ultrones. He didn't open the measure, as they say, and he didn't make it a train. However, I believe that, in this difficult situation, this or the new Government or Parliament (which, however, has all the powers to make assessments even with draft laws) should also give a timely response to the issues contained in those amendments which were urgent and which concerned investment in local authorities and e-invoicing. On the substance, of course, every political force has the freedom to express itself, but the country cannot stop. Forza Italia, with the sense of responsibility that has characterized us at this stage and characterizes us in the difficult political and institutional moment that we are living, does not fail to assess the substance and therefore will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u57	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, we are once again in this House talking about Alitalia, just as it happened in the last parliamentary term, and we are always talking about a company in great suffering. Maybe it's time to make a little history, to remember what happened. Alitalia was born in 1946, owned by IRI. With the first Prodi Government, in the great period of privatisation, it was sold to the market just under 40% of its value. During that same period, the majority of another public company, Telecom Italia, was sold to the market. In 2000, Alitalia's marriage to KLM failed, because KLM wanted Malpensa to be the center of operations, rather than Fiumicino. The year before, Telecom Italia had been scaled in debt, downloading the debt to Telecom. It seems to me that that operation was done by Roberto Colaninno. In 2006 the second Prodi Government tried to surrender the remaining 60 percent of Alitalia to the market; so began the negotiation with Air France but, while the negotiation was under way, changed the Government and arrived the fourth Berlusconi Government, which said: "Alt! We cannot give our company to the French: let the Italians keep it. And the brave captains arrived; a bad company was created, the redundancies and the passive were placed in the hands of the State and the brave captains - who were very brave - took the company. We should also remember who these brave captains are: Benetton, through the company Atlantia, that company that is the dealership of AdR - Airports of Rome, and it is also the great dealership of the highway system of the country (what power, this family!); then there were Ligresti, Caltagirone, Tronchetti Provera. And who becomes president of this society? Roberto Colaninno, the one who had climbed Telecom in debt, whose son, if I remember correctly, was the economic advisor of the Democratic Party. So I seem to remember, they're just flashes of memory, so we remember these things. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In 2013 Alitalia is on the verge of bankruptcy, another time. In 2014 the simple senator (as it was defined) arrives, the secretary of the Democratic Party, who says: Fasten your belts: today Alitalia really takes off. Probably confused the air with the water, because after the landing there was a sinking and an abyssing. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It's probably because the air and the water are both fluid, but they're different fluids, even for density (remembering some physics is fine). We found ourselves, therefore, in a situation in which we have experienced in parallel the events of these two large state companies, Alitalia and Telecom, whose names often cross. Telecom was a leading company in Europe, a company that wanted to implement the Socrates plan, which wanted to bring fiber optics to the Italians before the privatisation in 1998, when doing such a thing was incredible. But it was climbed to debt once; then it was climbed a second time by Tronchetti Provera, who is always one of the so-called brave captains: these names, these families, these situations, these powerful men always cross! Or at least, they believe they are powerful, because politics has forgotten to do what it has to do: politics must protect the collective interest, not the interest of these gentlemen. But obviously both the Berlusconi Government and the Democratic Party did exactly the opposite of what was the collective interest. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have to remember that, because if we don't remember the story, we're not going anywhere. Probably, what once would have been called "left" was in love with the capital and perhaps she forgot that there was someone who wrote a book to read about this word. Maybe they forgot that stuff and fell in love with this floating capital, where citizens don't matter. Not to mention the workers: if in 2008 Alitalia had 23,000 employees, we went down, when Etihad arrived, to 13,000; today it is 11,500 and for 1,500 it has been asked for the extraordinary Cassa Integrazione, with the State that pays 80 percent and the company that pays 20 percent. The same thing that is happening with Telecom, where the extraordinary rotating integration fund was requested for 30,000 people out of 54,000. These two stories are deeply intertwined, because there has been no more vision of this country. This is what we would have wanted to do. But if we don't do it today, we'll do it tomorrow. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , because no one can stop anyone who has a project for the country. Nobody can do that! You got lost because you stopped loving this country. It's talk you say when you claim to love this country. You only love those little things behind which you hide, like power, that sad thing that made you gray people. It seems to me that Gaber was talking about it when he said that in the end everyone gets a little sad. You've become a little sad, and you need some energy. But we gladly give it to you: we give it to you with all our love, our energy! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] When this situation ends and we will not have a total vacuum where there is no one who can decide, when Parliament is sovereign and could undoubtedly decide... But with a situation like this, who are we talking to if there's no government? VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. Do you tell us? CIOFFI (M5S). Shut up, but have mercy! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But be ashamed. Please.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u58	Senator Cioffi, today the government is far too represented.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u59	CIOFFI (M5S). Yes, I talk to everyone, Mr President, but then we always find ourselves with these strange things. For example, we read that Civitavecchia's attorney is investigating Etihad's managing directors, including Montezemolo. For God's sake, he too seems to me to be a known name: the same Montezemolo who was a member of that Italo that sold to 2 billion euros, when the paid-up capital, that is, the money they invested, was just under 300 million euros. What a beauty it is to make the gains! When the gains are to be made, if they take them; when there are to do the losses, we pay. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But how beautiful this thing is, but what funny, what funny thing! Then we talked about the fact that there's no data. The data is here. There is a report published on Alitalia's website with the balance sheet. In the balance sheet, updated to 28 February 2017, there are some interesting things to be found, namely that Alitalia, of the 3 billion debt it had made to have cash, has allocated 1 billion in financial instruments, of which 400 million in derivatives and 600 million in financial credits in order to pay in advance the maintenances. Is it finance, this stuff, or is it a game? We'd like to know who pays. Because if you have appointed as an extraordinary commissioner also a person named Lakes, who was the head of the board of directors of the Midco, who was the majority shareholder of CAI, then the commissioner should say that someone was wrong before, but if the same commissioner is what probably (maybe) wrong before, it will be a bit difficult for this to happen. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] By the way, you should understand why - the story has already been remembered - they were sold to Etihad at 12 million euros each slot, when the same slot was sold to 72 million (someone can say that it depends on the times, depends on what you want). So, how do you handle this? It is managed in one way only: by sending home those who have been incapable, identifying responsibilities, civil or criminal; someone must pay, but it is not possible that they continue to pay Italian citizens and workers. That is the only reason why we are in favour of this extension, because there is a need for someone who can think. You forgot your brains at home. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u60	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law 27 April 2018, n. 38, introducing urgent measures to ensure the completion of the procedure for the transfer of the business complexes belonging to Alitalia S.p.A." (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). There's a majority! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Casini, don't be singular in your last name! [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups and Senator Buccarella]] At this point, since you have done well, I am going to suspend the sitting, which will resume at 4 p.m. Senator Santangelo, in order not to have problems in the following, on the roll-call vote we will have to make a request because Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, read carefully, provides that it should be done at the beginning of the sitting. Let us keep this in mind for the next few times. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 1.07 p.m. and resumed at 4.15 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, as President Casellati said yesterday, Alberto Mieli, one of the most active witnesses of the Holocaust tragedy, failed. I would also like, on behalf of myself and all the Members of this House, to express to the family and to the entire Jewish community the senses of my deep condolences and that of the Senate of the Republic for the disappearance of Alberto Mieli. I now call on my fellow Members to observe a minute's silence. [[The President stands up and with you the whole House, who observes a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u62	The next item is the debate on draft law No 349, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Cioffi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the measure under consideration concerns the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 30 of 2018, which contains rules aimed at ensuring the continuity of the functions of the Regulatory Authority for energy networks and the environment, through the extension of the term in office of its components. It should be recalled that the Regulatory Authority ARERA (formerly the Electricity Authority for Gas and Water) has regulatory and control functions in the fields of electricity, gas, water and waste. The Authority's action is directed, for all regulated sectors, to ensure the promotion of competition and efficiency; to ensure the usability and dissemination of services in a homogeneous manner throughout the national territory; to define appropriate levels of quality of services; to establish secure, transparent and criteria-based tariff systems, as well as to promote the protection of the interests of users and consumers. Law No 481 of 14 November 1995 initially identified competence for the Electricity and Gas Authority in the electricity and gas sectors. The regulatory powers recognised by the Energy Law have been extended and specified over time, in parallel with the evolution of the process of liberalisation of the energy market at European level. In particular, in implementation of the directives of the third package, Legislative Decree No. 93 of 2011, subsequently amended, further specified the functions of the Authority. By Article 21, paragraph 19, of Decree-Law No 201 of 2011, converted, with amendments, from Law No 214 of 2011, the functions related to the regulation and control of water services, already attributed to the suppressed National Agency for the regulation and supervision of water, were transferred to the AEEG. Finally, paragraphs 527 to 530 of the 2018 Budget Act attributed to the Electricity Authority gas and water system functions to regulate and control the waste cycle. The current legislation, therefore, in regulating the establishment of the ARERA, as an independent collegiate body, provides that its five members will last seven years and cannot be confirmed. The procedure provides, in particular, that they shall be appointed by decree of the President of the Republic, after a resolution of the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister for Economic Development, in agreement with the Minister for the Environment and the Defence of the Territory and the Sea, after obtaining the favourable opinion of the relevant parliamentary committees, expressed by a majority of two thirds of the members. The current college, appointed by the decree of the President of the Republic of 11 February 2011, expired on 11 February 2011. After that date, pursuant to a resolution adopted on 8 February 2018, the ARERA continued to operate under specific extension arrangements, for a maximum duration of sixty days from the natural expiry of the term of office of the college, and exercising its functions limited to ordinary and urgent acts of administration; this in accordance with opinion No 5388 of 2010 expressed by the Council of State in relation to the applicability of the institution of extension to the college of the Authority for Electricity and Gas. The coincidence between the dissolution of the Chambers and the end of the mandate of the current members has, therefore, made necessary the adoption of the measure under consideration, in order to prevent the interruption of the activities of the ARERA and to allow, to the appointment of the new members, to provide the new Government. The text of the decree-law consists of only two articles. Article 1, paragraph 1, as amended in the course of the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, provides that the current members of the ARERA shall continue to exercise their functions, limited to the acts of ordinary administration and to the indispensable and urgent ones, until the appointment of the new members no later than the ninetieth day from the oath of the first Government formed after the date of entry into force of the decree under consideration and, in any case, no later than 30 September 2018. The original text of the decree fixed, as the term for the exercise of the functions in extension, the ninetieth day from the establishment of the first Government formed after the date of entry into force of the decree-law. In addition, a new paragraph 1-a has been added to the Chamber of Deputies, with which it is expected that, during the period of extension, the ARERA will transmit to the Chambers, every forty-five days from the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of the decree-law, a report concerning the acts of ordinary administration and those that are not different and urgent adopted during the reference period, with the illustration of the assumptions and the reasons. The paragraph also provides that, in the first report, the Authority will also give account of the acts adopted in the period between the date of entry into force of the decree-law and that of entry into force of the relevant law of conversion, as well as any guidelines adopted in order to identify the acts issued to be considered of ordinary administration, or indifferent and urgent. In this latter regard, it should be recalled that during the first reading examination at the Special Committee of the Chamber, the hearing was held on 23 April 2018 of the representatives of the ARERA, who indicated, inter alia, that they had adopted in advance internal guidelines aimed at identifying ex ante macro types of qualifying acts of ordinary administration, i.e. indifferent and urgent. In this context, those acts which lay down certain pre-conditions laid down in national laws, European legislation or previous administrative measures were deemed to have been adopted. Article 2 provides that the measure shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal. In conclusion, I would like to thank the special Commission official, in the person of Dr. Alessandro Goracci, and all his collaborators for the support and work they have done during the examination of this decree-law, as well as all the other measures assigned to the same Commission. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u64	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Ferrazzi is enlisted to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur has been comprehensive and has already explained in a technical way the issue we are about to address. This is the extension of the term in office of the members of an important Authority, which offers us, however, the opportunity to address some issues of political order that cling to the issues we are talking about now, to sectors essential for our country; sectors that would be defined as a natural monopoly, connected to gas, water, waste and electricity. Over the course of time - it has already been explained and well by the rapporteur - the Authority has been modified gradually and its powers have been developed. There is no perfect coincidence of the authorities with regard to gas and electricity, just as there is no connection with the powers of water and waste management. However, a homogenization operation in the national territory has allowed a more careful, careful and efficient management of sectors of some importance for the whole nation. I said before, however, that this must be an opportunity to address, at least by quoting them, some of the fundamental issues we are examining. A first point - and I mention them only, almost by title, because this is certainly not the place for a debate - is the determination of the effective tariffs which aim, precisely, at the efficiency of the infrastructure and network system. This is certainly an issue of particular importance, which has been dealt with in a number of judgments by administrative courts which have stated that consumers must pay for the failure to pay electricity costs. These charges were generated by different reasons, such as the crisis of some electricity companies, commercial errors, market conditions, or by the morosity of some customers. In some cases the possibility is even feared that some energy companies have turned out to be deadly towards the same distributors of the services and have spread the costs on the bills of the users. Another issue, which is mentioned only by title, is that of the possible deletion of the environmental networks within the competence of the ARERA, which is linked to the first agenda submitted to the measure. It is our view that this should not happen, because - and the last budget law has confirmed this - it was considered an important step to ensure a quality of similar services for the entire area of our country. In this respect, it is important to stress that the Authority's action is directed, for all regulated sectors; to ensure the promotion of competition and efficiency; to ensure the usability and dissemination of services in a homogeneous manner throughout the national territory; to define appropriate levels of quality of service; to establish certain, transparent and pre-defined tariff systems, as well as to promote the protection of the interests of users and consumers. This is the ratio - a criterion of homogeneity throughout the national territory - that constitutes on our part the maintenance of environmental networks within the ARERA itself. There is also another important issue that is the functioning and relationship between the regulatory bodies and the regulated bodies: from this point of view, there are objectively informative and dimensional asymmetries: all too often managers have become multi-utilities, with overprovincial or supraregional dimensions much larger than the prerogatives and capabilities of the territorial authorities (ATO). A further issue to be addressed is the potential conflict of interest that arises when the head of the local administration, which acts in most cases as a regulator, and head or head of the board of directors of the regulated entity, is the same person. Another issue is that which is marginal, but absolutely predominant from a content point of view, to the issue of network losses - I am talking about water service - which are, on national average, more than 30%, but even more than 50% in many parts of our country. Finally, there is the issue of the cost of electricity for families in greater protection: we know that at the end of December the Authority, in its assessments, increased by about 5,6% the forecasts of this cost with a series of assessments that have been carried out. Ninety days later he lowered them by 8%, with a differential of about 13%: more than 50 euros per household on an annual basis. In principle, the Authority had, by ad hoc resolutions, imagined the protection from insolvency of sellers and from any other situation with insurance policies that would cover these eventualities. The TAR ruled against this reading. Now a review and a work of connection would be desirable in order to find a solution to the problem. Finally, there is the question of the June 2011 referendum on water, on which there have certainly been commonplaces. Firstly, the popular will expressed in that referendum was not respected, because the remuneration of capital would not really be abolished and the referendum would dictate a purely public management of the integrated water service. In fact, the decision of the Council of State n. 2481 of 2017 has already been expressed on the matter, which, intervening on judgments of 2014 of the TAR Lombardy on the basis of appeals made by some consumer associations, recalls that the referendum that would have obliged the entrusting of the integrated water service exclusively to companies under public law in reality has never been held. It was, in fact, a referendum that did not pass the examination of the eligibility of the Constitutional Court and, therefore, never passed under the pen of the sovereign people. The referendum that came to the people's pencil, together with the one that canceled the mandatory tender or the 40% grant of the capital for public services of economic importance, was the one that abolives, in the voice of formation of the water tariff, the flat-rate remuneration, which at the time was set at 7%. The ARERA, which at that time had another name and was called the Authority for Electricity Gas and Water System (EEEGSI), re-evaluated this tariff on the basis of the actual cost of the investment, exploiting some more classic methodologies of the industrial economy - which we do not now deepen - and established that this remuneration was calculated on the basis of the principle of full recovery cost. In essence, the principle laid down in the judgment - which, on the other hand, was contested by the presenters of the appeal to the TAR - is that in the event that we are actually in the presence of investments, drawing on both private credit and the institution's own resources, the fee on full cost is recognised, while the advocates of the appeal denied the possibility in the event that it was drawn from the institution's own resources. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u66	Senator Steger is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the decree-law under discussion has an exquisitely technical value and for this reason our Group has no particular comments to make. We have common sense in the fact that the Authority, in a precautionary phase, has adopted guidelines to establish the areas of intervention of ordinary administration and it is important that, for the period of extension, a report be sent to the Chamber concerning any acts adopted. In all likelihood, Parliament's classrooms will have to return to ARERA before 30 September, when the extension we are voting on expires. From this point of view ARERA is just an example of what happens because of a prolonged period of political uncertainty. We believe that there is something to think about, just as there has been for Alitalia, for all those urgencys and problems that require a stability of politics and institutions. The areas of intervention of the Agency are many and all of extraordinary importance: not only water or energy, but also the very important issue of waste delivery. On this, an agenda has been presented in the Commission, and the Government, rightly, has exempted itself from making commitments, reaffirming that it is in office for current affairs. In any case, my hope is that Members of this or the next parliamentary term will take all these issues into due consideration, which are strategic and concern consumers and in some way also citizens' rights, if you think about water or environmental care. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u68	Senator Astorre is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure is necessary following the deadline of 11 February of the College of the Regulatory Authority for Energy Networks and the Environment. According to the law establishing the Authority, Law 481 of 1995, the duration of the members and the President of the college is seven years non-renewable. The fact that the term of office coincides with the natural end of the legislature led the Gentiloni Government not to proceed with the appointment and formation of the new college, for institutional respect towards the new Parliament. And, therefore - as can be seen from a special opinion of the Council of State - the performance of the functions of the Authority, albeit reduced to acts of ordinary administration and to acts that are indisputable and urgent, has continued under the regime of extension. In accordance with a resolution adopted on 8 February 2018, the ARERA continued to operate under a specific extension scheme. However, the extension may not exceed 60 days as per the opinion of the administrative court and, therefore, the scheme ended on 11 April 2018. The further extension could only have taken place with a specific regulatory provision and hence the need for a decree-law such as that at our examination, in order to allow an Authority to carry out truly fundamental functions, namely the regulation of industrial sectors called to ensure the use of public services of primary utility. During the examination of the measure in the Chamber, two very important and shared changes were introduced: the first concerns the definitive closure of the extension regime, which was set to 30 September; certain times that in a political context still characterized by very high uncertainties, however, offer a time scan able to allow the formation and, therefore, the full operation of an Authority so important for the management of energy, water and environmental systems. The second amendment is to ensure that Parliament is given control over the nature of the ordinary administration and the indifferent nature and urgency of the acts through the transmission to the Chambers, every 45 days, of a report on acts of ordinary administration. Parliament's role acquires due centrality, also with regard to the procedure for the appointment of new members. In fact, if the measure provides that the members of the college are appointed by decree of the President of the Republic, after resolution of the Council of Ministers and on the indication of the minister responsible, it also stipulates that the nominations of the Government must be submitted to the opinion of the competent parliamentary committees and in no case may the appointments be made in the absence of a favourable opinion expressed by the aforementioned Commissions by a majority of two thirds of the members. It is therefore a complex and particularly strengthened measure, in which Parliament's role is not irrelevant and, given the presence of a qualified and high quorum for the choice of the members of the Authority, it helps to ensure the necessary professionalism and competence in the administrative regulation of utilities such as energy, water and the environment. In the main sectors of natural monopoly - electricity, water and waste cycle - we have a very large regulator. It is worth remembering that the Agency has seen its skills grow progressively. It was born, in fact, at first as Authority for electricity and gas; subsequently by decree n. 201 of 2011 (the so-called Salva Italia decree) it acquired competence on the water sector and finally, with the last budget law, it assumed competence also in the field of integrated waste service. In order to stimulate a future discussion and hopefully to contribute to making regulation more effective and efficient with a view to an ever more appropriate service and with lower costs for consumers and users, a first consideration can only concern discrasia with respect to the role that the Agency plays with regard to the gas and electricity sectors, on the one hand, and water and waste, on the other. With regard to the first two sectors, the Authority sets the tariffs for the use of infrastructure, while for the last two sectors the competence of the aforementioned Authority concerns the determination of the tariff method and the approach to tariffs, which are determined by other entities, that is, by the authorities of territorial scope. There is, then, a problem that we should begin to address if we want the management of certain services to develop better and in terms of efficiency and cost containment for users. A first problem concerns the dimensional asymmetry between the water manager - for example - and the regulatory entity, the Framework Authorities, where the latter have a provincial or, at most, regional dimension, while the cases of operators with a supraregional dimension, even quoted on the stock exchange, are not rare. This is the case for ACEA - for example - but not only. To this asymmetry is added the classic one, linked to the information patrimony. The regulator arrives very often with great difficulty and also with delays to know exactly the actual costs of the customer of the service, and this increases the problems in terms of effectiveness and efficiency in the management of the service. If that is true, I leave to the future debate the issue of how to deal with the role of the Agency as an entity responsible for playing an even stronger role in tariff determination. Finally, there is a need for further consideration - and I hope it can be dealt with soon - regarding the obvious conflicts of interest within the local authorities themselves, which do not rarely associate the role of managers (presence of the mayors in the territorial areas) and entrusted with the service of public utility (presence of the Municipality in the share capital of the entrusted enterprise). How can a mayor be subject to regulation and subject regulated at the same time and ensure full market competitiveness, through the choice of the most efficient operator, if the administration that is called to lead as mayor is a member or owner of one of the competing companies? And again: how can it regulate a service reaching optimal levels of efficiency and cost reduction for users, when being a member or owner of the entrusted undertaking determines substantial revenues that can better guarantee the economic and financial balances of the Municipality that he himself administers? Here, reflect on the critical issues, some of which are just mentioned, regarding the management of services of natural monopoly and public utility could help to obtain an increasingly optimal provision of services to citizens in terms of effectiveness, efficiency and cost. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u70	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group I can assure you that we are voting in favour of this report. It seems to us to be an act due to the work of the Special Commission and the House. The changes that the House has made, on which we agree, have been well explained because the fixing of a period of ninety days from the oath of the first Government formed after the date of entry into force of this decree-law, or at least by 30 September, represents a date, perhaps, certain, and I repeat perhaps. Furthermore, to establish that every 45 days there is a report on the activity of the college that governs the Authority seems to me to be a good thing, especially if the report will be brief, brief and clear as to how such documents should be. Therefore, we believe that - as formulated - the decree on our examination can be transformed into law. What is of interest to us are the tasks of the Authority, which the rapporteur has already explained, since over the years it has changed its name having assumed new competences: these are the functions of regulation and control in the fields of electricity, gas, water and waste. It is an immense sector - there is only a lack of telephony, but it has a different regulation - in which billionaires really insist and in which the future of the country is played. The consistency of the infrastructure that brings the services is, in fact, an absolute value for the country, also because it offers advantages in terms of economicity and probably also of savings for the users. We also like that the law establishing the Authority has provided - as has happened for other Authorities - that the members of the college cannot be reconfirmed after the seven years of office. I would like to make a few further comments, hoping that we will not go off the subject. It seems to me that there is still a record to be made regarding the importance of the ARERA to the citizens, that is to say to all of us, in relation to the situation of national heritage. From 1 July 2019 the free market will start and, therefore, all the control activity of the Authority, which will be extrinsic in many ways, depending on the objects, with the fixing of the tariffs or with the method to fix the rates, is important. I hope that Parliament, if not now - it is not possible - will soon be able to discuss some of the things I am going to list quickly and obey some of the principles that I believe can be shared. We must always aim at the substance of the problems and not at the form. We must apply the principle of reality. We must apply the principle that everything you do or think you do, if it has a cost has a debt problem and the public debt is never so topical as in the last few days. I therefore hope that the Authority will ensure that standard contracts for the provision of services are clear, written in legible characters, not vexing; although we know that, as a result of legal provisions, all clauses that may have a risk of harm to the user must be countersigned. But I believe that my claim to certain contracts can exist. I think that ARERA must control the operators, also because sometimes the implementation of the rules is slower than we think and there may also be violations, at least minimal. In this respect, I believe that the implementation of the rule that provides for the prohibition of maxi-matches should be supervised, also in order not to put families in difficulty. The Authority must educate in personal and system energy saving, although there is a contradiction in this. I know of a consortium of waste that has made investments through loans, whose installment to be honored can no longer pay, having dropped the contribution of waste and therefore its turnover, or at least hard to do so. In the broadest sense, energy saving or saving on the whole of this system is a very important educational issue. I think the fixed costs in the bill should be contained, because the latter continue to be partially incomprehensible in respect of all services, and the items related to rentals, transmission invoice, transmission and communication of change of supply are charged to the user at very expensive rates. Finally, I would like to mention sector investment, which is a problem, because the public companies that manage today are often at a loss, as a colleague has already said. Who is it? The municipalities that are partners? And the same problem may apply to mixed societies; private companies are more or less able to survive. But we have a state of affairs, as we now say, that it is third-world. There are poles that bring energy, especially in the countryside, that touch the ground. Those who are local administrators know that, if they have to deal with ENEL or with some other competent authority to get a pole straightened out, they have to work hard and not too hard. Gas is a more recent service, whose lines are more or less in place, except for completion and except for the major international lines. We are not talking about the water system, where pipes in certain areas are a cholabrode and where sewers are an optional or waste, with landfills and preselection plants (we see it in many situations). In conclusion, there is a need to invest macroscopic, billionaire figures. Some had suggested that investment should be dealt with by general taxation, but I do not think there is room for a 0.01%. I think that Parliament will have to discuss here in the near future who makes these investments and whether the tariff can bear an increase in investment or whether it is necessary to set in motion a public car that finances investment so that the economy can start up again and that investment will generate new revenue - as is expected - and that the problem of employment will also be solved in part. Forgive me, Mr President, for making these remarks, but I believe that they are within the scope of discretion, of the wishes of this House for the future, and I hope that we can discuss them quietly. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u72	Senator La Pietra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are debating today in this House is very complex and would certainly require a more thorough analysis, but beyond the immediate shortcoming of the deadlines, I believe that this general debate can allow us to highlight how this decree-law presents obvious shortcomings. For example, there is little or nothing about extending rankings for hiring staff. It was also necessary, perhaps, here to review the extension for non-directive staff on a fixed-term basis at the ARERA. Just as little has been done about the transfer of the competence of the ARERA to the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea. This commitment is in stark contrast to what is written within the text of the measure itself. In fact, pursuant to Article 95 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the agendas must bear instructions to the Government in relation to the law under consideration. This must therefore be made clear. In the course of its work, the ARERA has undoubtedly had the merit of rationalising the regulatory sector, getting to absorb tasks and functions proper to other institutions, up to include, in January 2018, also those related to the waste sector. It seems that over time the action of the ARERA has been more adherent to criteria of mere economicity and representation of the companies responsible for the service than, as prescribed and established, to the interests of the users, that they should be at the center of every initiative put in place. This address has been highlighted, for example, with the recent decision in the field of electricity to spread - this refers to February 2018 - the suffering due to the morosity on the bills of virtuous users with regard to the system charges not paid by the operators and distributors of energy. This has also happened in the field of waste, with the very recent Umbria case, which fully follows the previous problem. It has made a lot of discussion, in fact, to see, the decision of the Authority to charge consumers 200 million euros of unpaid bills, as well as that in Tuscany the competent authority for the management of the waste, the Ato Toscana Center, has decided to charge the cost of the project of a wrong thermo-valuer to all citizens, a thermo-valuer that had been expected in a handkerchief of land in the area of the Florentine plain, strongly wanted by the local and regional PD together with the realization of the extensions of the airport of Peretola and the A11 highway (project, moreover, to which the local mayors of the PD had opposed). Similar cases, therefore, are occurring throughout Italy. Consumers cannot pay for the damage that companies will suffer from the "holes" resulting from the morosity of certain users or for errors of political planning. That's crazy! It is above all, however, in the field of the use of water services that these criticalities have emerged in a clear way, given a referendary pronunciation that, in many cases, has actually been disregarded precisely in the privileged relationship between the ARERA and the companies that manage the services themselves. Here are some examples: it was allowed that the economic difficulties of these companies would allow the application of tariff rates by way of derogation, or that some of the companies in question would actually continue to be borderline with respect to the referendary question, being also participated by private capital or in any case operating with civil institutions or, finally, that they were applied in bills items, such as those relating to the cost of the financial resource, which appear incompatible with the referendum outcome or with the application of heavily retroactive balances. It is therefore necessary to reconsider some aspects of the management of the Authority, considering the introduction, while respecting the autonomy also managerial of the institution, of mechanisms that put the Executive and the Parliament under the conditions of providing the political guidelines according to which the College of the Authority will have to concretely operate. Therefore, this must be a general principle and not only linked to the extension period; it is the very nature of the Authority that needs to be reconsidered. It is also appropriate to introduce regular audits, through hearings to be held in the relevant Commissions, on the practical operation of the Commission and on the scope of its competences. We in the Fratelli d'Italia Group wonder whether the policy may not consider that the generalized increases in user costs represent for families an increasingly less sustainable item of expenditure and do not, at least, foresee a more stringent system of controls on tariffs and installments, by virtue of the general interest. We believe that, on matters of political direction, the mere legislative instrument, in the face of the everyday governance of these sectors, is still less effective if not accompanied, precisely, by a constant work of direction and control that the parliamentary institutions should be able to carry out. Precisely for the above reasons, the Brothers of Italy believe that the current general discussion should be an opportunity to provide analyses and proposals on this subject. We also think that it is appropriate to review the duration of the current seven-year term of office of the College of the Authority, by reducing it to five years, precisely on the basis of the concept of control that Parliament must carry out directly on the Authority. This taking into account some clear criticalities contained in the bill itself, which derive precisely from the motivations carried out to support it and contained in the technical report. In essence, both the constitutive law of the Authorities and an opinion of the Council of State, and a judgment of the Constitutional Court, state that an extension of the members of the colleges of the Authorities, in order to be legitimate and compatible with the legislation in force, must satisfy basically two requirements: to be of reasonable duration and in any case not exceeding sixty days; to provide that under the extension scheme the activities of the colleges are limited to ordinary administration. The draft law assumes, instead, an extension contra legem to all intents and purposes. The College of ARERA, in fact, expired on 11 February 2018 and with the prospect of an extension until 30 September, would in fact be extended for more than seven months. We in the Brothers of Italy Group believe that such a broad extension does not make any sense and we believe that it is necessary to fix the extension in thirty days, as provided for in the amendment submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, which we did not propose again to the Senate because we believed that in a normal country, with a well-known parliamentary majority, we could have discussed today with a legitimately established Government, which would in fact make the extension unnecessary. I shall conclude by asking and asking all my colleagues a question. Today in this House we have dealt with two very important measures for Italians. The first concerns Alitalia, our flagship company, and the second is ARERA, the regulatory authority; two measures that affect and affect citizens' pockets in a tangible way. The decree-law on Alitalia represents our window on the world; ARERA is of direct economic interest to us all. Both of these measures come to this House at a very particular political stage; they would need to be discussed more thoroughly and examined in detail, but attention is now much more focused on the political and institutional situation. I therefore have a doubt and wonder whether the measures under consideration have been included voluntarily by the previous Government at this stage, due to its inability to deal with these situations. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u74	Senator Fantetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u75	Mr President, the decree-law under consideration is designed to ensure the continuity of the functions of the Regulatory Authority for energy, networks and the environment, extending the term of office of the respective components. The bill consists of two articles. In particular, Article 1, as amended in the course of the examination by the Special Committee of the House's Government with the approval of an amendment signed by the rapporteur, Mr Dario Galli, provides that the members of the ARERA shall continue to exercise their duties only in respect of ordinary and urgent acts of administration until the appointment of the new members of the said authority. The deadline for the performance of these functions is therefore specified, identified not later than the ninetieth day from the oath of the first Government formed after the date of entry into force of the decree-law in question and in any case no later than 30 September 2018. The original text of the article provided, as a deadline for the exercise of the functions in extension, the ninetieth day after the establishment of the first Government formed after the date of entry into force of the decree-law. During the examination in the Special Committee of the Chamber was also introduced to Article 1 the new paragraph 1-a, which provides that the ARERA, during the period of extension, transmits to the Chambers every forty-five days a report concerning the acts of ordinary administration and those indisputable and urgent adopted during the reference period. Article 2 provides for the entry into force of the measure on the same day as the publication of the decree-law in the Official Journal. I should like to make a few comments on this. After the examination of the Chamber, which introduced some changes to the text (as we said), the Senate only accepted two agendas during the examination at our special committee. The decree-law to our attention therefore constitutes what can be defined as an act due to allow the Authority of regulation for energy, networks and environment to continue in its functions, extending the duration in office of the components. As a result, the members of the ARERA will continue to perform their duties, but limited to ordinary acts of administration. Well-defined time limits are also set. At this point one wonders whether the binding date of 30 September 2018, introduced by the Chamber, is actually functional to ensure the proper functioning of the Authority, because, given the time needed to form a new Government, setting a deadline on 30 September could mean that the operation of the Authority or at least that of its members would be delayed. Perhaps it would have been more appropriate to leave the end of the ninety days, as foreseen in the text of the decree-law: we have no doubt that 30 September 2018 may be a date that risks requiring a further decree-law to extend. The other amendment introduced by the Chamber is that concerning the report to the Chambers on the activity carried out by the Authority. A report is now being asked of everyone about everything and is not being denied to anyone. It would be useful, at this point, to verify who reads them then all these reports, which we now insert into every provision; we would not want them to end up being put to the record. Among other things, for those who want to learn more, it must be said that the Authority has a site rich in determinations and resolutions to read and consult. We just remember that the components of the ARERA were appointed in 2011 and that their expiry was precisely scheduled in February 2018. We recall that the nomination procedure provides for the binding opinion, by a majority of two thirds of the members, of the parliamentary committees competent on the names proposed by the Minister of Economic Development, in agreement with the Minister of the Environment, the protection of the territory and the sea, approved by the Council of Ministers. This procedure certainly guarantees a very high parliamentary quorum, which in fact includes almost all parliamentary forces. In this respect, a number of points should be mentioned: firstly, that the resources for the operation of the Authority do not come from the State budget, but from a contribution on the revenues of regulated operators. The same Authority has voluntarily reduced the contribution, that by law it is previewed to the one per thousand of the revenues of the operators, with differentiations according to the field of the activity carried out from the various subjects: therefore, this picture strengthens the circumstance that the Authority can operate independently and with independence of judgment. Obviously, the context in which the ARERA operates must follow the general policy guidelines of the Government and Parliament as well as the European Union's regulations. Secondly, we recall that the Agency operates under a system of extension, which the Council of State wished to limit to sixty days, providing that under a system of extension it exercises its functions limited to acts of ordinary administration and those which are deemed to be indifferent and urgent. Therefore, the decree-law was necessary to extend this regime, which serves precisely to prevent the interruption of the functions of the Authority. It should be recalled above all that the Authority has strategic competences, such as to promote competition, efficiency, usability and diffusion of services in a homogeneous way throughout the national territory: essential services for citizens, such as electricity and gas, but also services for the environment. Thirdly, the Authority's decisions also depend on the charges charged to users, so it also and above all has a duty to protect the interests of consumers and users. In our view, this is certainly the priority role of the Authority, namely to protect the interests of consumers through the regulation and control of tariffs, which concern the energy and gas sectors. We have all noticed the new regulatory framework for the energy sector after the calls we have received to switch to new operators in the free energy market. What we want now, increasingly, is that it can emerge from this world, from this competitive environment, a set of better tariffs for the end user, for the citizens, especially in sectors such as energy, where, after all, a certain level of competition in recent years has certainly been triggered by the legislation already adopted by Parliament. I should like to conclude by talking about the waste management sector, which also concerns one of the agendas we are discussing, approved by the special Commission, namely the agenda G1100. It must be said that Parliament will have to deal with the complex issue of the TARI, the waste tax, as soon as possible and in a coherent manner. It must be noted that, after the blocking of the increase in local taxes, decided by the latest budgetary manoeuvres, this tax has become practically the only tax lever available to the municipalities. However, we believe that this tax cannot be realized and established as a kind of property on the house, in which the service rendered by environmental service managers does not correspond, among other things, not even remotely to the tax paid. We therefore hope that Parliament will be able, without delay, to turn its hand to this genuine injustice, which is going to penalise the real estate sector in a subtle way, which has already been severely damaged by a tax almost quadrupled since the last elected government of the Italians, that of President Berlusconi. With this I confirm that the Group of Forza Italia will vote in favour of the extension provided for by the decree-law in question. [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u76	He's enlisted to speak Senator Briziarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in all the speeches it has been pointed out that, regardless of the specific subject matter of the decree-law, the general discussion is an opportunity to draw the attention of the future Government and Parliament to the need to deepen and revise the overall functions assigned to the ARERA. It is no coincidence that this request is choral, if it is considered that just on 27 December 2017 these functions were assigned to the Authority and that, at the same time, just last April, the TAR of Lazio has recognized in the matter of waste the justification of the appeal lodged regarding the legitimacy of part of the Italy release, in particular with regard to Article 35. This underlines that the issue of waste is central and that our country cannot limit itself to assigning to the ARERA in a technical and formal way a function of control and management without deepening the topic and in particular, as indicated also the agenda that the Commission will shortly submit to the Assembly, without eliminating the contrasts between the functions assigned to the Regions and those attributed to the Authority. The country does not need a commission of the virtuous Regions, but rather that the virtuous examples are reported throughout the national territory. From here, the request, also from our Group, to be able to deepen the overall functions assigned to the Authority as soon as this is possible. [[Applause from the L-SP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u78	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about another important subject, like what was discussed yesterday and this morning. We are discussing it and living with the same climate as yesterday, with the same feelings and more or less all with the same attitude, even judging by many of the words that have been said by some of the previous Members. A sad note, the fact that a new extension is most likely to be needed, given that the deadline is expected in a fateful month, which will be next September. We'll see what happens. ARERA is a very important subject, fundamental for our country. It is a guarantee authority on many areas (energy, networks, environment), which is born as a third party, as a guarantor, but above all - we read in its constituent principles - as an independent body. This is the central point, in my opinion, namely to discuss an extension that gives us the opportunity to enter into the substance of this subject by addressing also the question of its independence. I say this because it is important first of all to understand the issues to which this Authority must be a guarantor, because over time its importance, in my opinion, has increased greatly; in fact, we are talking about electricity, gas and also many other fundamental issues for our country, which have been added over time, not by the last waste and water. During the last parliamentary term and in recent months the 5 Star Movement has intervened very decisively on the subject; we have highlighted, if not even denounced, many aspects, some of which have already been noted also in the course of this general discussion. I would like to add a few things that will be important precisely at the time of the extension. First of all, we have pointed out that certain decisions taken over time have been taken by the Authority in the opposite direction to what was the direction given by the parliamentary assemblies, and this sounds to us as common to many other complaints we have made in these classrooms. Last but not least the fact that, under the extension scheme, the Authority has issued about 188 resolutions: all of which have been, I repeat, made during the extension period. This sounds extremely strange since, even, some sessions of the college have gone empty from deliberations. We do not therefore explain the reason for this urgency. Above all, by going through the issues touched on by those deliberations, we do not understand precisely why these were done under the extension regime, since there was no requirement for urgency. It is also indicative of the fact, which we have contested, of the reform of the tariffs of the electric bills implemented by the Authority, made also with a power that goes beyond its competence, in my view, and therefore going to trespass in a field that was much more political, rather than guarantee and protection. In many cases, unfortunately, even in this area and for this Authority, we have spoken of a Parliament which has been somewhat out of control. Unfortunately, this has been a bit the recurring theme of the last parliamentary term and, as we are also seeing in these hours, it is also the recurring theme of these few acts that we are discussing. To Senator Astorre I say that we could have been ready, since last legislature we could have worked on this issue and made ourselves ready just so that we did not fall into this extension. But that's it, we're at this point. It is clear that careful vigilance will be needed in the coming months and years, however, precisely because these issues are fundamental. They're not just fundamental to us... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u80	Colleagues, I invite you to lower your voice. There is too much buzz in this House. Please, Senator Lucidi, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u81	LUCIDES (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. As I said, these issues have been important in the past but for us they are also fundamental in the future. So much so that one of the issues touched on by the Authority is water and - by chance - water is still, to all intents and purposes, the first point we have written in our government contract. Public water, therefore, and the Authority guarantees precisely this service. We have written in that document that water must be public and that the common good must be protected water, among other things as a will expressed in the referendum of 2011. Look at this: another issue of the lack of protection of popular sovereignty. We spoke in that document of the fundamental importance of restructuring the water supply, also in important health aspects. This is in order to provide a quality service to citizens, starting precisely from the fundamental good, from the common good water and, therefore, from the quality of water. It is therefore a matter of fundamental importance, on which Parliament will have to be careful in the coming months and years, both by means of monitoring, but above all by means of careful political guidance. And that this political leadership remains exclusively parliamentary control. I shall conclude my speech by simply claiming that this authority must, both during this extension but also later, have a much less political and more guarantee role for services and, above all, for citizens' rights. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u82	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u83	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u84	Mr President, I am speaking very briefly because in the general debate a number of issues have been raised concerning the functions and the political approach to electricity, gas, waste and water; issues which, in a sense, have opened a debate that I hope this House can hold in order to find the best way to achieve the objective (in this case, however, we are simply talking about the necessary extension of the appointment of the members of the Authority). The debate was therefore useful for its preparatory political function... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u85	Colleagues, it is very difficult to hear from the Presidency here as well. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u86	CIOFFI, rapporteur. I was saying that it will be useful for the work that Parliament is preparing to do in the near future. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u87	Mr President, I do not intend to reply. I would just like to say that the debate has focused on the initiatives that, in this regard, will have to develop in the near future, with particular reference to legislative changes. It is well known that this Government is in charge of the exercise of the activity of administration of current affairs and is unable, according to the Constitution, to develop legislative initiative. Mr President, I would like to say here that for this reason, since both agendas present the problem of developing a legislative initiative by the Government - if it accepts those commitments - that for this reason the Government of which I honour to be a member is not in a position to proceed. Therefore, I shall put myself back on both agendas at the vote of this House. [[Applause from Senator Calderoli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u88	We shall now proceed to the agendas, which are already set out in the general debate and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u89	Mr President, the two agendas were adopted in the Commission. The first concerns the waste sector and the second concerns water. In particular, the second concerns small economic aspects, but the opportunity to intervene in this area, which concerns the dying users, is a commitment that must be made by the next Government. The rapporteur's opinion is, of course, in favour of both agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u90	The representative of the Government has already returned to the Assembly with regard to the agendas under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u93	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking under Rule 114 (1) and I would ask, in order to speed up future work, whether it is possible, during this presidency but also for the future, to automatically use electronic voting, as is customary, since it is a faculty attributed to the President. On the contrary, I will be forced - at the beginning of the previous parliamentary term, when the Rules of Procedure were slightly different - from time to time to demand electronic voting. I believe that this impasse could be overcome by an interpretation by the presidencies which, automatically, could prepare for the normal voting procedure, which is the electronic one. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u96	Mr Calderoli (L-SP). Mr President, having contributed to this regulatory change, I rise to confirm my interpretation: the request for electronic voting throughout the day must be made at the beginning of the sitting and not immediately before the votes, as well written in Rule 113 (2). [[Applause from the L-SP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u97	Senator Santangelo, I would like to ask you if your request for electronic voting is extended to the voting of the agendas under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u98	Mr President, having written the reform of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to point out to you, in order to speed up, that there is no further reasoning than I am asking you to do. I would suggest using a hint of common sense in allowing the House to always vote with the electronic system, which allows everyone to vote quickly, to be sure of what we vote and to communicate to the outside, transparently, what we vote. I therefore believe that the request I made this morning for an electronic vote can be interpreted in this sense, so that it can be calmly extended - and I would ask Mr Calderoli to follow me in my reasoning - even in the afternoon: that morning should also apply in the afternoon, since there has been only one suspension of the work and this is a single sitting. This is to facilitate our work since we are in the early stages of implementing the new Rules of Procedure. I believe that the easiest thing for everyone would be for your Presidency and the other Presidents to start adopting this procedure as a practice. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Buccarella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u99	I shall refer this matter to the Presidency. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on agenda G1,100 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on agenda G11.01, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u102	Durnwalder (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the Autonomous Group will vote in favour of converting this decree-law into law. It is, as in the case of Alitalia, a technical vote to ensure the continuity of the functions of the Authority for acts of ordinary administration. As already emphasized in general discussion, the Authority has done well to adopt in advance the guidelines aimed at establishing the macrotypes of indifferent and urgent acts and well done the Chamber to introduce the paragraph with which it is expected that ARERA, during the period of extension, transmits every forty-five days a report concerning the acts that have been adopted. It is right to have introduced these precautionary measures with a view to guaranteeing the Commissioners and, of course, the Authority. However, let us not forget that such an important Authority, which covers areas of considerable strategic importance, is not in a position to operate fully today. It is no coincidence that in the Commission, in relation to the agenda which called for reflection on the tasks and functions of ARERA, the Government stated that it could not make commitments that exceed the ordinary administration. That is why we once again say that our hope is that this stage of uncertainty and instability will close as soon as possible: the stalemate has been going on for too long. The country needs answers and a government that, in all its articulations and in all its offices, is in the possibility to provide elements of address. In thanking colleagues who, with the right and due attention, have worked in the Special Commission on urgent acts of the Government, I repeat the vote in favour of the Autonomous Group. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u105	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, it is clear that this decree-law has a fairly limited object: the possibility of an extension for the Regulatory Authority for energy, networks and the environment, in order to ensure continuity of functions. However, of course, we cannot escape from bringing to the attention of the Assembly, even when we express our vote, some critical profiles that have been added over time to the functions carried out by the Authority. I would therefore like to mention a number of issues in particular. We are all aware that the energy sector is in radical transformation and in the past five years we have put a number of questions on renewable sources, energy efficiency and also on the urgency of taking action to stop climate change, on which the Authority has clearly taken other decisions. I would like to remind you here of the debate that has taken place many times, including in the relevant Commissions, on energy self-production and on the issue of on-the-spot exchange. Therefore, from our point of view, the Authority has not played that pioneering and stimulating role, not only of mere regulation and also of guaranteeing competition in this sector, which we believe should have played instead. This is particularly true of another sensitive, if not even more sensitive, issue relating to the water system. It is no coincidence that, in particular on the water sector, the ARERA has played a very negative role in our view - I would like to say this forcefully here - due to the failure to respect the referendum outcome. Let us say things as they are: we have faced a paradox, because not only in the last parliamentary term, Parliament has done so, even with a series of reforms (I think of the Madia reform), to intervene to distort and not apply the outcome of the referendum, but the Authority, which was certainly not empowered to interpret the referendum outcome, has not eliminated the tariff in any way due to the remuneration of the invested capital. This is a subject that I would now like to stigmatize. It is true that we are only dealing with the extension today, but this is an important moment to force the question of what has been the work of the Authority up to now, not to mention other events, which lead to a number of problems, including conflicts of interest. The Authority has recently also been given responsibility for waste. Here again this is an opportunity and we hope that the members who will be re-elected will take it seriously, because they will not only have the task of defining better the scope of the municipal solid waste management services, also regulating the plants of national interest; I believe that the Authority will have to have more diligence in reminding us that not only the European Parliament, but also this Parliament in the last parliamentary term approved a measure on the circular economy; moreover, on the issue of incinerators there is also a European pronunciation coming, because the TAR has returned to the Court of Justice of the European Union some rules of the decree-law unblocks Italy. Therefore, we hope that there will also be attention on these new competences, as there must be attention to the interpretation of the regulatory task and the design of the scope of the municipal waste management service, not only with a view to the application of European standards and the three Rs (Reduce, Reuse, Recycling) but also with a view to the circular economy and therefore of true innovation in this field. Obviously this also means, and we hope that this is the case, that after the extension, during this parliamentary term (although I do not know what the fate will be and no one knows it at the moment) we will have to identify very high profile figures in order to fulfil the roles of Commissioners and President, who will have to be aware, prepared and absolutely up to the task of innovation that precisely in the areas of the Authority's strict competence are absolutely necessary. I am referring to the field of energy, waste management and the field of water infrastructure or, in any case, the field of water resources. In these years we have wanted to emphasize this profile and the relative critical profiles of the activity of the Authority with very severe reliefs also. It is clear that the decree concerns a necessity, that of the extension, and it is clear that we can certainly not deny this extension, but the Free and Equal Group wants to highlight the shortcomings and problems that have occurred and, of course, in doing so, we also indicate the way in which the next Authority, the next Commissioners and the next President will have to move. That is why I am voting in favour of this measure, but only because we need an extension. We want, however, to remain in the proceedings all the critical profiles that have manifested themselves. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u108	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the second measure in this parliamentary term, the second of this day, the second extension measure to which the parliamentary groups often adapt using the term 'technical', saying that it is a technical extension. I believe, however, that this is a political extension, and we shall decide on this as we have decided in relation to the decree to extend the Alitalia loan, also in that case a decree and a political extension. In that case, however, we abstained in order not to create further alarm and concern in the sector and especially among the workers who are rightly committed to defending and protecting the national carrier. In this case, however, our vote, as in the House, will be against. It will be against in terms of law. I would like to point out to my fellow Members that this Authority has a seven-year life. When it was named, more than seven years ago, the context was completely different, it was an Authority for energy and gas. In the meantime, it has assumed additional powers, the last of which is the last budget law, which is particularly important because it concerns the waste cycle. When the commissioners were chosen, it was evidently because of their expertise on energy and gas. I do not think they have the same skills on the waste cycle or water problems, so a problem of inadequacy emerges macroscopically. At the same time it is an Authority that has lasted for seven years; seven years represent a very long life for any institution; in Italy I believe that such a duration is only the Presidency of the Republic. It therefore extends for months - and we do not know more than many - an Authority that already has a seven-year life, which in the meantime has greatly increased its powers, moreover with a legislative extension in the face of an extension already made on an opinion of the Council of State by the Authority itself, which has self-generated. I say all this in order to highlight the system of extensions in which we are placing ourselves: almost ninety days after the vote (in fact almost three months have passed, in a few hours) we still have an extended government; perhaps someone wanted to extend by considering the previous legislature, which ended three months ago or, however, ended with the electoral act of three months ago (even if it formally ended a few days later). It is therefore a government that has been extending for ninety days, without even a President-in-Office being appointed, because there has not yet been a President-in-Office. Well, we are faced with this decree-law, which has been modified by the House. The two modifications made by the House appear two patches worse than the hole. The first amendment, as has been pointed out, sets a limit on 30 September. We had proposed another limit, even shorter; but the problem is that the limit of 30 September, already according to the Commissioners themselves, will be further exceeded in view of the fact that there is not necessarily a government capable of making appointments by 30 September, which are then approved by two thirds of their respective Commissions, with a parliamentary majority that is foreshadowed different from that which is likely to be expressed by a government - if anything - in these weeks. Therefore, the patch is worse than the hole: by putting the patch of a limit, in the uncertainty of the political framework that has been determined in the meantime, by extension on extension, you have set a limit that you yourselves know will be exceeded; by another decree? The second patch is asking an institution that will only go ahead for the ordinary administration, while having, in the meantime, important decisions to take (because it also has competence on the waste cycle), to ensure transparency, sending every forty-five days to the Chambers a report on the acts taken. Perhaps it would have been better to include in the decree-law a report that was not only limited to the decree, since it is clearly seen this necessity, as we believe there is, also in the face of the decisions of extraordinary importance that the Authority has taken and will take, when it can take them. When? No one here knows anymore. For these very reasons, we believe that this cannot be a technical vote, but that it must be a vote of political denunciation in relation to the extraordinary conditions of an extension regime which emerges in all evidence today, but which is a political extension, which we cannot accept. That is why we shall vote against. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u111	PITTELLA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Morando, Mr Cioffi, I would like to thank my colleagues from the Group of the Party of European Democrats who have spoken, the Senators Ferrazzi and Astorre. Our vote will be in favour. I should like to add a few thoughts to what my colleagues Ferrazzi and Astorre have already said. Today the speed of innovation and transformation of markets is higher in energy than in other sectors. Proof of this is also the priority focus of the European Union on this area, with the new legislative initiatives: I am thinking of the new Clean Energy for All Europeans package. It is precisely at these moments, at times of severe discontinuity, that the ability to give certainty and transparency to the rules for the functioning of the markets, while ensuring enhanced consumer protection, becomes more important. This also favours efficient investment choices tailored to the needs of customers. In this context, the regulator (in this case ARERA), the technical and independent guardianship of the regulated sectors, must ensure that change is addressed to the benefit of the public interest, while energy policy choices are certainly and must remain a prerogative of policy. The regulator shall be responsible for identifying the most appropriate instruments and implementing arrangements. In the implementation of this delicate task, the legitimacy of the regulator must be based on his/her third-party rights vis-à-vis the various stakeholders, in the clarity of the mandate, in transparent forms of widespread participation in decisions. The ARERA must be able to respond effectively to the challenges, to enable the consumer to make informed and informed choices, to allow the development of new smart forms of consumption, to find more effective ways to protect the most vulnerable consumers, particularly exposed in the process of liberalisation of the energy market. I would like to stress that energy poverty is already a serious problem today, which will worsen in the future as a result of the difficulties for many families to invest in energy efficiency and to strengthen the verification and compliance with the regulatory framework. A further challenge for the coming years is the management of the amount of investment needed for the transition to a sustainable energy system (which is called the circular economy). And the objectives of the circular economy are very much the driving force behind the Commission and the European Union, and I believe that we should welcome this drive which will lead us to new modes of transport, from electric cars to hydrogen; to new patterns of consumption and interaction between consumers; to the development of smarter and more flexible networks. The supranational level and the European level, where a European agency was set up in 2009, will thus have more and more power over this regulatory framework, and our National Authority is therefore committed to making its voice heard within an important European framework within the European Regulatory Agency within the framework of the European Commission's guidelines. This is a piece of the more general challenge we are facing. Staying in Europe, strengthening European integration and strengthening common policies also on the subject of energy, but knowing that we are and safeguarding the interest of Mediterranean Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u114	Mr Vallardi (L-SP). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am in favour of the League Group's decision to vote immediately, which is - as previous speakers have already pointed out - a functional extension of the components of the Electricity and Gas Authority. It is a measure that today is defined as indispensable and urgent in order not to deprive the country of a regulator of the national tariff system. The Agency was founded in 1995 with the noble intention of preventing Italian consumers from continuing to be further harassed and taxed on important issues such as electricity and gas. Over the years, vital issues such as public water management and waste have been added. These are certainly very sensitive issues, since we are dealing with essential services and, above all, with citizens' pockets. I think it is quite natural to think that perhaps the last Government could think of it before (naming the president and the four representatives of the collegial council of ARERA), since the expiry date of the Authority was already set for seven years and it was known that they should be appointed. I believe, therefore, that since the elections of 4 March 2018, of which we were all aware, perhaps the Gentiloni Government Silveri could have thought in time of replacing and appointing these members, and perhaps today it would have been no use even being here in this House. It will clearly be up to the next government to appoint these people. I believe that in the end, without any controversy, it is also a very positive thing, given the important functions of this Supervisory Authority. ARERA, as we have already said, deals with many functions, controls water, light, gas, networks and more, it is practically a society that systematically controls all the services that we citizens enjoy every day in our homes. As far as the management of electricity is concerned, we in the League Group believe that it must be at national level, partly because, unfortunately, in part, electricity is forced to import it from abroad, so a management at national level seems more than justified. The same is true of gas: we produce very little of it and we have very little in our subsoil for this reason we are forced to import it almost totally from abroad; therefore, even on this subject we believe that a direction at national level is absolutely acceptable. On the other hand, the reasoning on water is extremely important and delicate, because it is a resource that clearly and unquestionably has a public good nature, also because we had a referendum on this nature in 2011, in which almost all people expressed their support for the fact that water remains a public good. In fact, despite the fact that the referendary question has absolutely not affected directly neither the indication of the races, nor the qualification of economic importance of the water service, the referendary result, having clearly established the absence of the possibilities of the remuneration of the invested capital, makes it less - unfortunately or fortunately, depends on the points of view, but we in the end believe also fortunately - the interest of private entrepreneurs, who have absolutely no opportunity to make profits on the management of the water service. The management of water, for obvious reasons, is something that existed well before the entry into operation of ARERA, much of the national territory was managed quietly this service without any particular problem. Obviously this also depends a lot on the geographical position: in the North there is a more widespread spread of aqueducts, in the South we know that there are greater criticalities. Every local public administration has always tried, for obvious reasons, to better manage its own water, absolutely indispensable for families and citizens. The League Group believes that the excessive centralisation of service and management, probably with additional structural burdens absolutely not justified, is exactly what must not be done: it is not the economy of scale the priority to be pursued at any cost, but the real priorities are the efficiency of the service and, above all, the quality of the water. We in Veneto unfortunately had some problems recently with the management of FAS and we know very well what it means when it is even remotely assumed that there is pollution within public water networks. Clearly, water quality goes through strong investments in water supply networks and sources. The position of the League has always been directed to confirm that the water is a public good, that the networks are a public heritage belonging to the Municipalities, that the efficient and virtuous managements must be guaranteed and protected, first of all the entrusts in house, if possible. We have always preferred public water management rather than the monopoly of private individuals or European partners. Same thing for waste, where ARERA could be useful to convince many territories - I say it in a positive way - of the Centre and South Italy, where there are often still local administrations reluctant in the matter of separate collection and proper management of waste. We must remember and emphasize that in Italy there are territories, largely concentrated in the northern part of the country, where the issue has been addressed for a long time and in an absolutely adequate way, so much so that, not since now but already for several years, the objectives that also at European level have been set for our country have already been achieved and abundantly exceeded. We have good examples. I remember the example of the Province of Treviso, which was also mentioned in the recent program agreement between the North League and the 5 Star Movement. ARERA could do a good job on the waste situation in our country. A country, ours, where there are territories that virtuously reach extraordinary levels of efficiency. I'm just saying that as an example. There are territories that reach 85 percent of separate collection. We have places where the rates for an average family of four do not exceed 200 euros per year. Moreover, there are territories where the same people, with the same size as the household and the house, pay rates of more than double. For four people you get to pay 400-500 euros per year. So you understand that virtuous examples need to be moved, copied and duplicated in order to achieve overall efficiency. There is no way that there are such unequal services across the country. We need to extend the policies and facilities that really work. We have in Veneto (imitated examples also in Friuli and Lombardy) excellent plant situations, which transform all waste into resource. There are companies that transform the organic fraction of waste completely into energy, e.g. through Biomethane, which is used to run vehicles. We think - it is not science fiction - that we can extract (in technical terms it is said to strip) the CO2 that is also used in the food sector. There are companies that turn waste into hot water with district heating, companies that turn waste into electricity for homes and plants themselves, companies that transform waste into compost or soil for agriculture or flowering. These are examples that we need to consider in an ARERA that we need to give new tasks to make this country work better. The Group of the North Legacy will certainly vote in favour of this measure, because we absolutely must do so. Clearly, however, with the intention that as soon as possible, especially through the new appointments, the company's function will be more efficient. [[Applause from the L-SP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u117	WORDS (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Forza Italia Group also announces its vote in favour. We are faced with a necessary measure, I would almost say due. We also confirm, from a technical point of view, that the components of the Regulatory Authority for energy, networks and the environment, so-called ARERA, which last seven years and cannot be confirmed, have reached their natural expiry, the third consiliature. And appropriately, by resolution of 8 February 2018, the college of ARERA, in view of the approaching of the aforementioned deadline, has decided to comply with the opinion of the Council of State and, therefore, to operate, to date from 12 February 2018, under a specific extension regime, for a maximum duration of sixty days from the natural expiry of its mandate, establishing also that under that regime of extension the college itself exercises its functions only limited to the acts of ordinary administration and to those that are indisputable and urgent. It should be recalled that the opinion of the Council of State, to which the second consiliature of the Authority had also conformed, stated in summary that the Authority, as an independent institution of nomination also parliamentary and not subject, in case of vacation of the body, to the replacement power of the Government, is removed from the application of Decree-Law No 293 of 16 May 1994, which provides for the extension of forty-five days of the administrative bodies. In view of the particular importance and non-surrogability of the functions entrusted to the Authority, in the event of the simultaneous expiry of all the members of the college of the same Authority, the possibility of a specific extension should be admitted, by way of exception, in order to ensure the continuity of the functions in the case of the appointment of the new college. However, this specific extension must be completed within a maximum period of 60 days from the end of the term of office, which limits the powers and the acts of ordinary administration from those which are indifferent and urgent. With resolution 9 April 2018 the college of the Authority, in the face of the economic context determined following the general elections, in which still the framework of the competent institutions to the procedure of appointing the members of the Authority itself is still incomplete, and in the absence of legislative interventions indicating the continuation or the reintegration of the exercise of the functions by the third counciling, has specified that, concluded on 12 April 2018 the period of specific extension of the third counciling of the Authority, beginning from 13 April 2018 and until the establishment of the next fourth counciling, in the absence of interventions of other institutions that indicate in the more continuing and reintegro of the exercise of the functions by the current counciling, the administrative activity of the Authority will be cared by the offices of the same, within the limits of the functions and measures not reserved by the law to the college. The following day - as is known - the Decree-Law of 10 April 2018, n. 30, which provided for the extension of the period of specific extension of the College of the Authority. The decree-law allowed the College of the Authority to continue in the exercise of its functions, even if within the limits already identified by the above-mentioned opinion of the Council of State, the acts of ordinary administration or inevitable and urgent. It is clear, however, that such measures, although null, will remain effective until the nullity of the same will be established by the administrative court, in case of possible failure to convert the decree-law in question. It is for this reason that, highlighting important problems of precariousness of the measures adopted on the basis of unconverted decree-law, it offers serious arguments - we also believe absolutely not optional - in support of the need to convert this decree-law, in order to ensure the legal certainty and stability of the regulatory framework. The real novelty is that the Authority will also have to deal with the regulation and control of the waste sector. On this choice, I believe that an important debate - I hope - will be opened in the parliamentary classrooms and in the relevant Commissions, for certain matters which have already been mentioned, on which we clearly fail to debate during the explanation of vote. But it is clear that, in the field of regulation and control of the waste sector, it is necessary - let us say clearly - to work, on the one hand, in the direction of the circular economy and, on the other, with rules open to the market and competition, aware that this opens up a debate and that we must combine the market and competition with an excellence that we have - as has already been mentioned by some of our colleagues - within the multi-utilities that today deal with these services in our country and that in many cases, while being listed on the stock market, are by public majority. It is clear that it is necessary to combine the presence of excellencies from a public point of view with the opening up to the market for the private sector: only the opening up to the market will give citizens the opportunity to save on the costs of services, starting from the waste tax. It is clear that telling us how to combine these two needs will be the near future and the debate within this House and - as I said before - the Commissions. For these reasons too, the appointment of the College of the Authority is of great importance - I must not stress it, nor highlight - and, in our opinion, it needs a broad consensus. Forza Italia will be vigilant and will be careful so that future members have the requirements of high professionalism required and our vote will be favorable also and above all so that - and I conclude - companies and consumers can have an authoritative garrison in the Authority. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u120	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure under consideration is a due act, which contains urgent measures in order to ensure the continuity of the functions of ARERA through the extension of the term of office of the respective members of the college, appointed for seven years, by decree of the President of the Republic of 11 February 2011 and expired on 11 February 2018. I would like to begin by saying that we would not be here today if we had accepted the amendment we tabled to the Budget Act a few months ago, because we had foreseen that the situation would be the one today and, therefore, we had proposed an amendment to extend the term of office of the members of the Authority. If it had been approved on that occasion, we would have taken better time today, but the majority of the last legislature decided otherwise. The decree-law is composed of two articles, in the first of which it is arranged that the members continue to exercise their functions for the acts of ordinary administration and those that are indifferent and urgent until the appointment of the new members the aforementioned Authority, no later than the ninetieth day from the oath of the first Government formed after the date of entry into force of this decree and, in any case, no later than 30 September 2018. It provides that during this extension, the ARERA shall transmit to the Chambers a report on ordinary and urgent acts of ordinary administration. It also provides that, in the first report, the reasons for the acts adopted during the period between the entry into force of the Decree-Law until its ratification are set out. Article 2 provides for the entry into force of the measure. It is almost useless to stress the importance of the Authority, whose task is to define the regulatory framework within the primary sectors such as energy, water and waste; a regulatory framework which must be defined on the basis of the principles laid down by Parliament. In particular, it is up to it to promote healthy competition, efficiency and appropriate tariff systems, with the aim of consolidating high standards of service quality throughout the country at the best possible price for citizens. So far this is the formal part, which we have heard several times and we have also reiterated. Let us now, however, go into the substance of the matter. We have said that the Authority must define the technical regulatory framework, but with principles that must be inspired by Parliament. This, however, is a role that has not always been respected, indeed it has often not been respected. Many times - as my colleagues in the last parliamentary term will remember, the 5 Star Movement has denounced in this House and in other places, by any means, the behaviour deemed incorrect - and I repeat incorrect - held by the Authority, with the adoption of some measures that have exceeded its powers; measures that have hindered or even set themselves against the guidelines dictated by the rules approved by Parliament. Therefore, we must be careful: we are talking about the fact that the Authority has put in place things that Parliament had not delegated to it, but that were even contrary to what it approved. We refer, for example, to the reform of the charge of the bill for the supply of electricity, with the relative overcoming of the progressiveness, which has led to the increase of almost 100 euros per year of the bill for millions of domestic customers, those that consume little energy and often represent the weakest families. The colleague first spoke of scarce investments in order to efficient housing, the industries, but this reform that has put in place the Authority - the stakeholders of the sector and all the associations of category tell us - has in fact transformed the tariff regime from progressive to regressive and therefore has discouraged the investments for the realization of interventions of both energy saving and energy efficiency, that of self-production and self-consumption of renewable energy. Conversely, this reform has facilitated the creation of rents for energy distributors. In this case, therefore, the Authority has exercised a power that does not belong to it and has determined the direction of national energy policy, national energy policy which, on the other hand, belongs to us, to Parliament. It is now clear that, compared to a few months ago, the parliamentary composition has changed and therefore the 5 Star Movement hopes that Parliament will regain its prerogatives. I repeat: I have the utmost respect for those of the Authority, but Parliament must take back its exclusive parliamentary prerogatives, and the term 'exclusive' means very much. I ask for your attention on this matter because we must resume a role that Parliament has let itself be robbed of in the last parliamentary term: Parliament, that is, has stripped of its role and left it in the hands of the Authority. We, on the other hand, must take up this role because it involves essential services such as water, energy and waste. Attention, because the rules that the Authority determines depend not only on the respect of parliamentary political direction and international agreements on climate and energy but, in money, the social, environmental and economic opportunities that the implementation of these policies creates towards the community. I said a few minutes ago that the reform of the tariff has substantially depressed the new investments: a technical rule, therefore, has depressed the economy. These opportunities will not be realized if, on the one hand, Parliament is not able to sum up its responsibilities and, on the other hand, the Authority will not be able not to exonerate from its own, carrying out only its own functions. This means that the role of the Authority is very important and can determine how much we will go towards new sustainable decarbonised models, how much we will go towards a renewable energy transition and towards the circular economy, how much, therefore, we will have direct internal benefits, capable of stimulating domestic demand, growth and economic progress in national productive sectors. I remember that we have plenty of studies that quantify in half a million - as an overall balance, so also taking into account the losses - the new jobs that we can create by embracing energy efficiency and renewable sources. But, be careful, we do not achieve this result unless there is an effective and above all rapid drafting of technical rules. We run the very serious risk of losing more jobs. As you all remember, we have lost 120,000 jobs in renewable sources over the last seven years; well, now we have to be careful, because unfortunately we risk doing the same thing with regard to the mobility sector, which grabs one million jobs. The whole extended mobility chain has one million jobs. We must allow the market for electric cars to circulate fully, to enter the field of mobility, to enter, above all, the market for electrical services because, perhaps someone does not know, in the other countries electric cars are already in the market for electrical services, while in Italy they are not yet able to enter that market. In the future the role of electric cars will be central, because the dispatching of ancillary services, such as energy storage, will replace production as an income generator factor for operators. I mean that in the future operators will no longer make the money producing electricity, but with the dispatching market. Now, I understand that this is a bit technical, that, perhaps, not everyone here knows it and that it is not very simple, but we are here to anticipate and regulate the future, not to let ourselves be swept away from the future and suffer it! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Buccarella]] While that's what we're doing. The current political situation, of course, does not favour this path. Therefore, as a 5 Star Movement, we are absolutely willing and eager to start this Government, to start the Commissions and to work in such a way that, finally, we can appoint the new college, introducing figures naturally of great competence and professionalism in the sector, but introducing, decisively, a discontinuity with the behaviour held in the previous seven-year period, which involved those 120,000 jobs lost and, at this moment, the risk of losing more. According to the law of 14 November 1995, the members of the Authority are appointed by decree of the President of the Republic, after a resolution of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the relevant Ministries, which in this case will be the Departments of Economic Development and the Environment. These nominations, however, are subject to the binding opinion of the competent parliamentary committees voted, as you know, by a qualified majority of two thirds: this can take place and it is our responsibility to do so, but only in the case of a fully legitimate Government, therefore a fully functioning Parliament and a fully legitimate Government. Let us not think, instead, of making strange maneuvers with governments that are not fully legitimate, we absolutely do not want to allow this. In this case, this is a decree absolutely due and technical and for this we announce the favorable vote of the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Buccarella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u121	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u122	As the agenda concludes, tomorrow's sitting, Thursday 31 May, will not take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-8.ana.u123	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. The Senate is summoned to the house. The sitting was closed at 18.19 a.m.
