ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous president's day. Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00049, tabled by Senator Rauti and other senators, 1-00051, tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators, 1-00053, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators, 1-00054 (text 2), tabled by Senator Maiorino and other senators, 1-00055, presented by Senator Pucciarelli and other senators, 1-00056, presented by Senator De Petris and other senators, and 1-00058, presented by Senator Unterberger and other senators, against violence against women. I call Senator Rauti to explain motion No 49. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u5	Mr President, I hope that this House will pay due attention to this matter. I would ask you to call my colleagues back, thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u6	Colleagues, please take a moment of attention: Senator Rauti is presenting motion No 49 which I believe is of interest to the whole House.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u7	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has first tabled a motion on the subject on the agenda, but it is not a competition. We are pleased that other motions have subsequently been tabled, and I hope that this House will make an important gesture by signing with a cross-cutting consensus all the motions that have been tabled. We tabled our motion last week, with a deadline of 25 November, when the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, established by the United Nations General Assembly in 1999, is due to take place. This institution invites governments, international organisations and non-governmental organisations to take initiatives to raise public awareness of gender violence. The Day, of course, falls within a very strong international perimeter on this issue. Twenty years before its establishment, the United Nations Assembly adopted the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. And again, I would like to point out - because it remains an inescapable reference point - the fourth UN World Conference in Beijing in 1995, which definitively established that women's rights are human rights and that gender violence is a violation of fundamental human rights. Obviously, then, the perimeter is strengthened with many UN conventions and with many international agreements and it is necessary to mention among them the Istanbul Convention, approved in 2011, which introduces on the subject, being a legally binding instrument, norms - precisely - binding for the subscribed governments, imprinting the whole Convention essentially on three principles: those to prevent the phenomenon of violence, to protect the victims of violence and to punish the perpetrators of violence. Although there is an international perimeter of strong reference and a solid Italian legislation on this side, on this front (and I could say on this trench), the World Health Organization continues to remind us every year, figures and estimates at hand, that gender violence is a structural issue, a phenomenon of global dimensions, a world that crosses the world, a question crossed by religions, geographies, social classes, belongings of society, so something truly and dramatically deeper. Unfortunately, every year, even in this country, there are still acts of violence against women and so-called feminicides, that is, those murders of women based on a gender motivation, that is, the killing of a woman as a woman. Eures even reminds us that every two and a half days, every sixty hours, a woman is killed because of her being a woman and this year we have already had, unfortunately, to keep the macabre count of 65 victims and the chronicle continues to offer every day cases of violence and every two and a half days cases of feminicide. Italy has done a lot in regulatory terms, but something still remains to be done. Italy intervened, perhaps with some delay compared to other European countries, with the first organic law of 1996, which for our country constituted a fundamental watershed, a point, fortunately, of no return, because that law once and for all established that the crimes of violence were not crimes against public morality and the so-called good custom, but were finally recognized as crimes against the person. Another important piece of legislation is certainly the 2009 law, more known as the anti-stalking law, which was going to fill a regulatory vacuum and punish the repeated and repeated conducts of harassment in their wide range. And yet, another pillar is represented by Law No 119 of 2013. We have addressed this motion to the Government, asking for certain commitments, some of which I have seen are also used in the motions that have been tabled after ours. Evidently we all call for a need, also because there is no explicit part in the Government contract on this matter and then we ask the Government for precise commitments, starting with the full implementation of the National Anti-Violence Plan provided for by the aforementioned law, namely No. 119 of 2013. And again, we ask the Government to take all appropriate steps to ensure the protection of women and their children and on this advance that we are working on regulatory interventions that could not, of course, be placed on a motion. It also calls on the Government to promote effective and substantial equality between men and women, understanding and overcoming equality in order to achieve de facto, substantial, social and real equality. The motion is intended to commit the Government to promoting any awareness-raising action, including the adoption of specific school education programmes aimed at preventing violence, as well as the dissemination of guidelines for a communication based on respect for gender differences and the image of women. The Government is then asked to adopt effective strategies to prevent all forms of violence (physical, psychological, sexual, work and economic), as well as to ensure that the resources allocated in the State-Regions Conference (starting with those allocated in the May 2018 Conference) are always provided, with regularity and punctuality, ensuring the functioning of the anti-violence centres on the national territory (on which updated monitoring by the competent department is required) and eliminating the objective regional disparities in the provision of services to victims of violence. Furthermore, the motion under consideration is intended to commit the Government to entrust to the founding Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, established by law approved by this Assembly, the task of quantifying the economic and socio-sanitary costs of violence, as well as of implementing a collection of data - which is not there - on the murders of women based on gender reasons. Moreover, the Government is asked to commit itself to the implementation of Law No. 4 of 11 January 2018, which protects so-called orphans of feminicide (i.e. orphans of domestic crimes), in order to make it fully operational. It is also called upon to inform Parliament of the activities of the steering booth planned to give impetus to the policies in question, as well as those carried out by the newly formed Technical Committee on Anti-Violence. Finally, the motion under consideration calls on the Government to ensure that there are no cuts in the Budget Act for 2019 to the Rights and Equal Opportunities Policy Fund and, more generally, to all policies to prevent all forms of violence. I would like all my colleagues to know that the Brothers of Italy have joined a campaign, which has become transversal, entitled: It is not normal for it to be normal to raise awareness that it is not normal for there to be murders of women, domestic violence and rape. It is not normal to get used to this and we do not want to resign, because resigning means making normal what - instead - is monstrous. In conclusion, I would like to make a quote. Generally speaking, in the margins of interventions such as this, there are phrases from women. I would like to quote the phrase of a man who knew it very long, William Shakespeare, who wrote the following words, which I invite colleagues and colleagues to listen to: For all the violence you have consumed on her, for all the humiliations she has suffered, for her body that you have exploited, for her intelligence that you have trampled on, for the ignorance in which you have left her, for the freedom that you have denied her, for the mouth that you have closed her, for her wings that you have cut off, for all this: standing, gentlemen, in front of a Woman. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u8	I call Senator Alfieri to explain motion 51.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u9	Mr President, let me first of all thank my colleagues in the Group of the Party of European Socialists, who give me the opportunity to highlight, after 25 November, the guidelines for the work we must do together. A lot has been done in the past parliamentary term and it is right to point out this because this is a battle of civilization. I use the word civilization not by chance, because it has to do with the idea of society that we have in mind: an open society or a closed society in which we protect and defend, perhaps even for inertia and mental laziness, the taboos of the past and stereotypes for which, when we talk about violence against women we have only sexual violence in mind. In fact, it is something more, perhaps more subtle, deeper, more dangerous, that brings together physical harassment and forms of psychological dependence, sometimes economic: it is something more pervasive that concerns the quality of human relations and of our living together, of civil life. This is why talking about violence against women also has to do with the idea of liberal democracy, with respect to a model of limited democracy. I very often sense, even in this House, an annoyance with regard to the extension of civil rights, when the advancement of civil and political rights, together with economic and social rights, has ensured the growth of our societies. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is a fundamental point. It is a battle in which we cannot leave women alone: it is a battle that we must all carry on together, both men and women. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups and Senator Piarulli]] I say this above all by looking at the numbers, which are reported in our motion, which only make us imagine the scope, size and gravity of this phenomenon. More than 31% of women between the ages of sixteen and seventy have been victims of harassment or violence; almost 50% of these harassment is done by partners or former partners and the percentage even rises in cases of feminicide, reaching two thirds in cases of rape. This means that violence comes from the family, the one in which you trust the most and lower your defenses. This suggests that we are faced with an emergency in our country, which cannot be underestimated. In the previous legislature there was a significant step forward, thanks to the Letta, Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri Governments. I begin by recalling the most important act, the one that has seen us ratify together the Istanbul Convention within the Council of Europe: I start from this first international binding instrument also to draw everyone's attention to the fact that all too often in Italy it easily indulges in criticism of international organisations, whether the United Nations or European institutions such as the Council of Europe. However, it is precisely thanks to supranational organizations that we have taken a significant step forward in the extension of civil and political rights and in the civilization of our society. Within this Convention there are some passages that were mentioned earlier also by Senator Rauti: for the first time violence against women is considered a violation of human rights; for the first time the theme of being free from violence is written in a European act. It is not a concession, but a right and the theme of gender equality is closely related and linked to that of violence. So, if we act on the theme of gender equality, we create a more open and freer society, in which we can finally somehow affirm those freedoms that can break through the crystal ceiling that still clings its wings to female talents. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Papatheu]] Sons of that Convention are the regulatory evolution on stalking, the law on feminicide, the Extraordinary Action Plan against Sexual and Gender Violence - I look to the then Minister pro tempore Fedeli, who has spent so much on the subject of the national plan, with an innovative, multidisciplinary approach that integrates the action of the various Ministries - until reaching the innovative law on orphans of domestic crimes: we left behind in 2013, but in 2018 we finished our work, first among the European countries for this type of measure. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In short, a lot has been done and this disciplinary approach has led to allocate, for example, to the school - I always look to Minister Fedeli - 9 million euros in awareness-raising projects, because it is from the schools that we start, from the anti-violence centers and from the training of the operators. Then there was the work done in health care, with the preferential lanes for women who have suffered violence; the work within the judiciary, with the new guidelines of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. I would like to start by reminding Minister Salvini, who yesterday spoke of the great innovation of the red code, that it is already found in the law on feminicide, carried out by the central-left governments. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The same is true of the short memory of those who yesterday, once again, felt a rapture against the jobs act, without remembering that in the jobs act there is leave for women who have suffered violence and who are engaged in a path of protection. [[Applause from the PD Group]] So, be careful, we always try to find balance when we give a judgment on what happened. The same applies to the reform of public administration and the transfer of women who have suffered violence. There is, of course, a great deal more to be done, and we make this clear in the motion for a resolution: resources must be maintained. I have read carefully the government contract between the League and Movimento 5 Stars: well, colleagues, keep the promises that are written there, because if we go to see the budgetary instrument we realize that the Policy Fund for Rights and Equal Opportunities is cut by half a million euros, that the Anti-Trait Measures Fund is cut in a similar way and that funds for those who suffer violence and orphans of domestic crimes are cut. I want to say this very clearly: if we want to be consequent and if we want what we write today in the motions to be really carried forward, hands off those funds! [[Applause from the PD Group]] We complete the work on the Istanbul Convention, starting with Article 17 on communication. It invests the media and the way and language we put in place to tell about violence against women. Be careful not to use expressions that can justify behavior and somehow endorse and give a side. Today we know how the language of politicians can also influence the climate within which we carry out our political initiatives. Then there are social media, on which we need an intervention, which must be done bipartisanly. Especially when it comes to women, in fact, within social networks the grudge is more exasperated and is even more serious when there are cases of feminicide. I want to say this here, especially for women who make politics: I understand that the difficulty is double and I know how difficult it is for them to accept to be attacked and not already for their ideas, for projects and for the measures they carry on but very often for their physical appearance, for the way they make up or for their being a woman. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is unacceptable to me and I therefore express our Group's solidarity with all women, regardless of their political position. This is an important point, on which we boys should all "get a grip" on. I come to the conclusion, talking about the coordination of criminal, civil and court proceedings for minors. Here we can take one step further: I spoke before the preferential lane, according to the new guidelines of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. I would also like to say this with regard to the misalignment that is sometimes found: as the many lawyers who sit in the Senate know, it is important that a case that goes on in criminal matters is not misaligned with respect to a cause of separation or custody of children. I therefore call for attention and balance from this point of view when we legislate on custody of children and every reference to Pillon's bill is not purely accidental. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I conclude by inviting us to resume the path outlined and the work done by previous governments, with the certainty that this is a cultural battle before even political and with the hope that the intensity of our commitment will be equal to the challenge, both when we make public statements and in the private sphere, and with the awareness that the most important weapon that we can put on the field does not pass from here, but passes from the story we make to our children, from the relationships with the women of our lives, from the kindness of our thoughts, our words and our behaviors. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and Mixed Groups and Senator Gallone. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u10	I call Senator Toffanin to explain motion No 53.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u11	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that a measure against violence against women has been presented in this House. This is not the first time that this issue has been addressed. If today we are again voting on a motion on this, which is a real scourge, it means that the problem unfortunately continues to be widespread and extremely topical. In the first nine months of 2018, in fact, the number of women killed already unfortunately amounts to 94 cases, 32 of which were recognized by the police as cases of feminicide. Violence against women is not a phenomenon that affects only women as such, thus assuming the character of gender-based violence, but undermines equality and poses itself as an obstacle to the development of a democratic society. Violence against women is a violation of fundamental human rights recognised and guaranteed by both the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Despite the numerous instruments of protection and the regulatory progress made, including at international level, in order to condemn and combat the phenomenon, crimes against women continue, unfortunately, whose socio-economic and geographical transversality has led the Council of Europe to adopt, in particular, the Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence. Our motion recalls that in 2013 the Italian Parliament ratified the aforementioned Convention by Law No 77 of the same year and approved the urgent provisions for combating gender violence provided for by the so-called anti-feminicide decree (decree-law 14 August 2013, no. 93). The latter introduced the aggression of assisted violence, a very serious problem precisely, due to ill-treatment committed before children, i.e. to the presence or harm of a minor of 18 years, or to the harm of a person who is pregnant. Despite repressive and preventive legislative measures, this phenomenon is subject to continuous review. There is no doubt that violence against women has cultural origins and stems mainly from the fact that man considers women to be his possession or object. An organic intervention is therefore necessary on our young people, who must be educated from the earliest age: the school, in this sense, has a fundamental role: without wanting to replace the family, it is called to initiate students and students to reflect on the quality of relationships between man and woman, because the birth of a dialectic between identity and diversity allows the most complete affirmation of the individual. School institutions must therefore adopt appropriate training strategies, in collaboration with families, local administrations, social and health services and all those involved in education and training. In our motion we also recall the final report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, which states that the problem is such that it requires action which, in terms of costs and respect for public budgetary constraints, is less burdensome than the consequences of acts of violence. These interventions also include the recovery of maltreatment men in terms of their treatment and the assessment of the risk of relapse. With our motion, we therefore commit the Government to do the following: take the necessary measures to promote and support educational paths for the education and respect of women; confirm, among the priority policies of government action, the fight against violence; continue in the promotion of information campaigns; intensify initiatives and support actions, as well as ways of re-education of abusive men; take measures to make stable and transparent the allocation of resources to the financing of services and anti-violence centres; finally, take any necessary measures to enable judicial authorities to access themselves to verify the possible registration of criminal and civil proceedings for crimes of gender violence. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot think that you have done enough already. Our thoughts and actions must be made to feel strong every day. Women who are outraged need to feel sustained and not left alone; they need so much courage, but also so much closeness. Let's all feel like we're here together. [[Applause from the FI-BP and M5S groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u12	I call Senator Crucioli to explain motion 54 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last Sunday was the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, established in 1999 by the UN General Assembly. It was chosen on November 25, because on that date, in 1960, three of the four Dominican sisters Mirabal were killed, because they were guilty of rebelling against the dictatorship of Trujillo. Their code name was mariposas (butterflies) and they were beaten to death. Since then much has been done in Italy and around the world to overcome the culture of prevailing masculinism that pervades our society. I will mention here the Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women adopted in 1979 by the UN Assembly, which entered into force in 1981 and ratified in Italy in 1985, which, among other things, set up a committee to monitor the state of application of the rules for the protection of women's rights. I would also like to mention the 2011 Istanbul Convention, which for the first time created a comprehensive framework for women's protection, which is legally binding at international level. This Convention, which was ratified in the last parliamentary term (in 2013), introduced amendments to the penal code and the criminal procedure code, invoking penalties - among other things - for crimes against women. Despite this, despite the preparation of the Action Plan against Gender Sexual Violence, foreseen by the Convention last mentioned, and despite the Extraordinary Action Plan adopted by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 7 July 2015, the data on crimes against women in our country are terrifying. Over the last ten years 1,750 feminicides have been committed, more than 150 per year, almost one every two days; and the vast majority of these have occurred in family contexts. In 2017 alone there were more than 2,000 final sentences for sexual violence and more than 1,800 for stalking. Innumerable then are the complaints for ill-treatment and injury; and this is only the tip of the iceberg, since the statistic attests that in nine out of ten cases the victim does not press charges. It is clear that these figures are the result of a culture that has not yet fully reckoned with the tendency of us men to prevaricate over women. Violence is only the most serious and most evident expression of the phenomenon: sexist insults or the tendency to entrust women with less important and less paid jobs are also part of this same problem. Yet women are the pillar of our society, if only because they are still mainly devoted to the education and growth of our children; we must take care of them. Our country is certainly obliged to take all the necessary measures to prevent all acts of violence against women's rights and to guarantee an effective gender equality - I would say absolute - that are expressed in a total equality of rights, in an equal opportunity to choose the type of life that a woman decides to live, in the most total autonomy and independence, despite her children. It is not fair for a woman to be constantly fought and blackmailed between seeking her place in society and being a mother. The choice to make only the mother or not to do only that must be a free choice; every disparity of economic treatment must be contrasted and fought, because it affects the independence of the woman and thus exposes her to the risk of abusive behavior. In order to do this, it is necessary first of all to change our mentality, which is still decidedly masculinistic. To understand at what point our society is poorly prepared to reject episodes of gender abuse, just remember that even in this House, in the last legislature, some senators have turned to colleagues with vulgar sexist gestures or epithets as vaiassa, which in Neapolitan means servant, squire. In this parliamentary term, I listened to a colleague shout in this Chamber to one of our senators: Back to the kitchen. Unfortunately these insults are transversal, no Group is exempt, they all involve: it is a cultural issue. It is clear that such a climate is indicative of an unsolved problem, as the latest report submitted to the Government in July 2017 by the Committee constituted by the 1979 UN Convention mentioned earlier, which indicated some of the shortcomings of our system. This report made it clear that, first and foremost, women's awareness of their rights and remedies should be strengthened to denounce violations. This report also shows that there is a lack of coordination between regional and local components and a clear definition of mandates and responsibilities. More, and above all, there is a need for decisive action on school, in order to eliminate discrimination through gender equality education from early childhood. This government, since its establishment, has begun to act to overcome such problems. I would like to remind you that yesterday the Council of Ministers, with the idea of strengthening Law No 119 of 2013, approved the so-called red code against violence against women. This is a rule that will shorten the time taken to respond to women's complaints about ill-treatment, sexual violence, persecutors and injuries related to family contexts or cohabitation. The preferential channel already provided for in Law No 119 will be strengthened: the complaint will have to be immediately brought to the attention of the prosecutor, who will have very close time (only three days) to hear the complainant. In addition, the judicial police will have to give priority to their investigations. However, the Movimento 5 Stars, which - let us remember with pride - has the highest percentage of female members compared to any political force ever [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , asks that it be done even more on this front. That is why, with our motion, we call for the Government to ensure that the funds currently allocated are paid out regularly, without delay, and that they are bound to assume precise commitments, giving priority and evaluating the results. We also call for indicators to be provided for assessing the impact of appropriations. We ask that a section be prepared, within the website of the Department for Equal Opportunities, to make the reporting of funded activities accessible: not a single euro must be wasted. We also call for the mapping of anti-violence centres to be updated, including to estimate needs and adjust their allocation. And more: we call for initiatives to be taken in the field of school, educating on equality and defining guidelines that provide guidance to include in school curricula the issues of education on legality and the fight against violence against women. We ask, again, that a path be taken that leads to initiatives of formation of the operators of the justice, the Forces of the order and the social services in order to face the phenomenon; that specific routes be provided in prison for the perpetrators of sexual violence and the exploitation of the prostitution, including the destination of part of the income in favor of the compensation of the victim, and that the victims of crimes such as the exploitation of the prostitution can be inserted in paths, in order to definitively break the bond with the exploiters. We therefore call on colleagues to approve this motion and on the Government to commit themselves to these objectives, so that all Italian mariposas, all butterflies that rebel against injustices, no longer suffer violence or discrimination. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Rufa]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u14	I call Senator Pucciarelli to explain motion No 55.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as my previous colleague has already announced, the UN Assembly chose the tragic but bright story of the Mirabal sisters to rise from detail to universal, from the individual case of barbaric violence, to violence with capital V, which for too long has dominated and dominates gender relations, by virtue of the civil commitment they showed. But there was not only commitment and courage in their tragic end, but fragility, impotence and the sinister mark of an adverse destiny. In her novel "A man" dedicated to the hero of the Resistance to the regime of Greek colonels, Oriana Fallaci claimed to see in Alekos all the victims she knew of the tortures and abuses of totalitarianism, one after the other. In the same way we today must go to the universal and see, remembering the three Mirabal sisters, not only the women victims of political violence - and here we could quote our Norma Cossetto - but all women of all ages and social background who have suffered any form of violence. Unfortunately, it is not always possible to strongly condemn the abuses suffered by women, because in the contemporary world, marked by the flows of global information, by trends and by major stakeholders in the areas of communication, certain forms of violence against women are put in the background of others. Motion No 55 seeks to re-establish an equity which has to date been lacking and to turn the spotlight also on those forms of violence which are ideologically tolerated, implied and even justified. In many countries the practice of brides is still tolerated: very young women, under sixteen, who are forced to marry a man much older than them. It is a form of aberrant violence, which defines gender relations in pre-nineteenth-century form and helps to mark a substantial difference between the civil rights enjoyed in the West and those enjoyed in third countries. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] However, it often happens that in Western countries, including Italy, non-EU families resident there return to their country of origin to carry out, far from the justice and public opinion of the host State, this criminal act. This is also violence against women. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Another atrocious practice, widespread in many parts of the world, is female genital mutilation, which forces girls and women to be sewn and then dissected as necessary, as rag dolls, in the name of a myopic traditionalism totally incompatible with the goals achieved by our civilization. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and FI-BP Groups.]] Once again we must not underestimate the hypothesis that similar phenomena occur in the cities, neighborhoods and Italian countryside. The inclusion and active supervision of social and educational systems is essential in this respect, because this is also violence against women. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] In the post-industrial and interconnected West, child pornography is a widespread phenomenon, as well as sadly widespread, which drastically undermines the body and soul of many girls removed from their innocence and their right to individual serenity. Tolerance must be zero to those who use child pornography. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Today we have a duty to demand and support the fight against them with a loud voice, because this too is violence against women. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Let us not also forget that in some Western countries, as in most poor countries, women, blackmailed because of misery and fatigue, are forced to sell their own uterus, offering to support the pregnancy of a child who will never see, who will be ripped from their arms in the name of the selfishness of others and who, as in a supermarket, is chosen, purchased and withdrawn. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and FI-BP Groups]] Gender equality will never be guaranteed as long as the womb for rent remains a widespread practice in the world and accepted by Western public opinion, because this is also violence against women and I would say about children, because a child cannot be prevented from having his mother. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and FI-BP Groups]] Even today in Italy there are cultures that consider the woman anthropologically inferior to man. A daughter, a sister and a wife cannot choose how to dress, how to self-realize, who to fall in love, who to marry, how many children to have, or how to exercise daily activities for us such as driving the car or having minimal social relations. Even in Italy - I repeat - it has happened; it probably happens and sadly will continue to happen, despite all the efforts made by the institutions. How many girls who wanted to live in the west have we cried in the past years? Today we are also talking about their unjust destinies, because this too is violence against women. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Mr President, in tabling this motion, we want to break down the barriers to discrimination. We don't want an A-series and a B-series of women who are victims of violence. Everyone has the same right to remembrance. Their destinies knock on our doors to ask us to do something and the voice they possess is the same for each of them, without distinction. Action must be institutional, cultural, political and also aim at a single great enemy: ignorance and intolerance. The contrast between male and female is misleading and deleterious; it is not man as a male who is a danger to the safety and freedom of women, but the cultural ideas and instances in which all human beings are immersed. President, we are able to reverse the course and we have a great responsibility, because our civilization is the only one able to do so. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We must recognise this responsibility and we must act. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] . Many congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call Senator Laforgia to explain motion No 56.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u16	Mr President, I think that what we are dealing with today is not just any subject. And I am thinking of the fact that perhaps, even today, we should have used a few more degrees of solemnity, even in this House, and more attention than a subject that is not just about the dramatic accounting that we have every year. There are hundreds of women killed as women. This is the meaning of the word feminicide. It is not only about the victims who are described as collateral - a somewhat algid and somewhat legal expression - who try to have a normal existence, even if they do not succeed, after losing a mother or daughter - if I have time, I will try to say something about this too - but it concerns and questions each of us and is related to the no longer deportable discussion that we need to do on the model of society that we have built. Mr President, I think that we have entered the stage of world history in which we can dramatically see common elements between countries, among those we have defined until the day before yesterday established democracies or democracies in transition. This is not, of course, the place to analyse these elements. There are many: the myth of disintermediation, an insuffering for free information and also the anti-political wind that is going through Western countries, including ours. There is a regression on the field of rights, but there is an element that is dramatically uniting these countries around the world and is a machist and misogynistic trait of public discourse, which is informing the public debate and above all the language of politicians, politics and political leaders. From this point of view, let me say one thing. I listened with great respect to the speeches that preceded me, including the last of my colleague Pucciarelli, who referred to the very delicate issue of gestation for others (GPA), which we should have the courage and lucidity to deal with in its complexity, and other issues. I would like to address you, Mr President, through you, saying that - as my colleague has stigmatized a bit of violence in her approach and language - I would like to hear certain colleagues sitting in this House today stigmatizing sentences, which we have heard over the past few months, such as 'We must force women to give birth'. This is violence and it is precisely the violence that we must condemn and stigmatize. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators De Petris and Unterberger.]] We must start from here, ideally wearing - if you will allow me, Mr President - the shirt that the Canadian Head of Government wore some time ago, which bears the inscription 'je parle féministie'. It must start first of all from us, from us men and from men who make politics. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Bonfrisco, De Petris and Unterberger.]] If we do not tackle the issue with this approach, this ambition and this cut, we will not get out of it and we will not be able to build something good, because there is a first dimension all cultural, which is part of how we built our model of society. I am referring to the idea that men - and I shall refer to them, that is, to us, obsessively - seem not to be alphabetized about their relationship with women. This is the debate we need to debate and there are the elements to be able to do so. A number of previous speeches have referred to what is contained in the Istanbul Convention; to the fact - for example - that, with regard to the educational dimension of the problem, Article 24 provides for the inclusion in school programmes of every order and grade of teaching materials on gender equality, non stereotyped gender roles and mutual respect. This is the theme: we must educate our children, children and girls, to live together and to know how to respect each other. It is an element that comes before all the others, from which you cannot escape. Then there are other important ones, which concern material execution, the material possibility of being able to attack effectively the theme of feminicide and violence against women. First of all there is the question of the resources that we must put on the plate for the anti-violence centers and for the shelter houses. Those resources cannot and must not be touched and, on the contrary, we must make the maximum effort to make a serious investment on instruments that have worked, can work and that bring out many women from the condition of loneliness in which they are ended and from which they must be released. There is also an issue concerning the criminal legal mechanism in order to identify cases of danger in a preventive manner. Very often, in fact, women are victims of violence and end up being killed despite the many alarms that they themselves have launched over time. I therefore believe that this mechanism should be developed and made more effective. There is also the whole issue of collateral victims, as I said at the beginning of my speech. And I'm talking about family members trying to pretend to live a normal life, but that's not possible for them after losing a murdered daughter at the hands of a man. I am referring to the children who are orphaned after losing their mother in such a dramatic affair. At least, let us spare them the mockery of having to juggle in the meanders of bureaucracy! [[Applause from Senators Bonfrisco, De Petris and Taverna.]] We take away from them the idea that, in the condition in which they are found, the State can even be lived as a sort of opponent, as the creator of a mechanism that does not facilitate protection measures, those that we should put in the field to protect, very often, minors who remain orphans. We must invest in this land, and do so quickly. We must take substantial steps forward and make them cross-cuttingly. This cannot be an element of political battle, while respecting the different sensibilities that may emerge. In this respect, I also hope that the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide will work in this spirit. And we have to do this by looking up at the world, because the theme of feminicide, the theme of violence against women, is yes the so-called advanced civilizations - I say it with some irony - like ours, but it also affects many other realities around the world. The slogan "Not one of the least," which is really beautiful, is actually borrowed from another slogan, that "Ni una más" invented by Susana Chávez. Susana Chávez was a Mexican activist and poet killed at the age of 33. And this happened because that young woman wrote poems precisely to denounce the dramatic story, which continues to be ongoing, of hundreds of young women who, in that country and in particular in some of its cities, such as Ciudad Juárez, have disappeared, have been killed and, very often, mutilated. That young woman denounced such a dramatic story through her poems. It is as if the power had shown all its fragility and had been afraid of poetry. We should take an example from this. We should work on this issue with all the depth we can put ourselves in because, if we do, we will make politics stronger, we will make institutions more credible and we will certainly make our country more civilized. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u17	I address the greeting of the Senate Hall to a representation of students of the Liceo Scientifico (Liceo Scientifico) (Terenzio Mamiani) in Rome, who is attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u18	Mr President, I have been dealing with violence against women for 20 years and it seems to me that we have always been at the same point; on the contrary, sometimes it seems to me that violence against women has increased. This is certainly also due to the fact that women are no longer ashamed and find the courage to denounce. It is also positive that the issue has gained the attention of the public debate. Twenty years ago it was a topic for a few women who fought for rights, while today it is the entire Senate that discusses the issue and most male colleagues have become aware of this social scourge. In short, the issue is on the agenda of politics. In recent years there have been countless international conventions, starting with that of Istanbul, which oblige all states to introduce a series of crimes that punish violence against women. Then, news of these hours, there is also the so-called "Red Code" measure issued by the Council of Ministers, which provides the highest priority for complaints of violence and the obligation of the prosecutor to hear the complainant within three days. If you know how many women are sent home when they want to denounce their husband, you can see the importance of such a measure. Nevertheless, the data are not encouraging. Every 72 hours a woman gets killed. In the first eight months of the year, police forces filed complaints for as many as 10,000 cases of family abuse, 8,500 for stalking, 3,000 for sexual assault. All this shows that we need a change in society, a firm condemnation of all forms of verbal and physical violence. All this shows that we need a change in society, a firm condemnation of all forms of verbal and physical violence. On this, those who represent the institutions must always set an example and instead it does not always happen, indeed: certain posts of authoritative politicians are defined as genuine invitations to gender discrimination. But male violence is also to be traced back to the social structure of power. As long as the relationship between genders is marked by inequality and dependence, violence against women will always be present. We are well aware that all this cannot be changed overnight and that we need a firm and radical policy action, which must not be confined to words but must provide for concrete action. Therefore, with our motion we ask the Government to strengthen the precautionary measures introduced by the 2006 law; to invest in the formation of those who work in close contact with victims of violence such as the Forces of Order; to make available enough funds for anti-violence centers; to encourage the employment of women, considering that the economic dependence of women represents fertile ground for violent men; to introduce measures to encourage the participation of man in the care work of the family, introducing a parental leave that can be used only by the father and paid with a high percentage of income. Finally, in view of the importance of the media, we call for the introduction of instruments to monitor communication operators in order to ensure a respectful representation of the female figure. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u19	I declare the debate open. Senator Papatheu is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to two important events: the first concerns our President Alberti Casellati, who is the first woman to sit on the bench of the presidency of the Senate and we, of course, as the Forza Italia political group, are very proud of this, as part of the Forza Italia parliamentary group. [[Applause from the FI-BP, M5S, PD and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV).]] However, we have had to wait so many years for this to happen. Unfortunately, Mr President, women must do a lot of smart things before they can take on certain roles and see their rights recognised. On the other hand, little is enough for ignorance and in this regard, unfortunately, I must address my colleagues in the 5 Star Group because in their blog ignoble words have been used, of which I invite you today to see. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] Do not present yourself here with red handkerchiefs and do not assume theatrical attitudes that I find ridiculous. All the news, as well as all the colleagues in the House, have stigmatized the words you have used against my colleague Matilde Siracusano. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] For this reason I invite you to apologize, to publish - each of you - words of excuse and above all of disassociation from certain thoughts that are ignoble, that I am ashamed only to repeat (it is talk of suffocating, it is talk of skinned knees). I do not invite you to see the 5 Stars blog to realize the seriousness of the words that have been used by voters. Shame on you! [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups. Senator Taverna's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u21	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motions before this House are yet another sign that Parliament would like to give in order to address and try to tackle the now age-old problem of violence against women. We are waiting for the commission of inquiry into feminicide to be set up, and to this end I hope that all the groups will give the names of the senators and senators who will be part of it as soon as possible, in order to proceed as soon as possible with the first convocation and to resume the work which has been interrupted in the last parliamentary term. (at 10.41 a.m.) (Following RIZZOTTI). There have been many initiatives that have taken place throughout the country in recent days on the occasion of the International Day on Violence against Women. I also remember with emotion the movie "Red Land" which speaks of repeated violence, suffered by an Italian student, Norma Cossetto, raped by 17 Tito partisans, tortured and foibata. [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups]] But I would like to thank President Alberti Casellati and the Bureau of the Senate for having strongly wanted a guide in defense of women, in order to provide everyone with a comprehensive tool to deal with and defend against all kinds of violence and to come to know and take advantage of the services of help present on the national territory. More and more women in Italy decide to say enough and put an end to the violence suffered by denouncing. From January to June this year the free number of public utility (1522), promoted by the Department for Equal Opportunities several years ago and managed by Telephone Rosa, received only 444 calls from women victims of violence in Rome, managing in six months to reach the total number of phone calls of 2017. The increase, on the other hand, is evident also in the rest of Italy, where almost 5,000 phone calls have arrived. So there is certainly a significant increase in women who are asking for help and who decide to be in a position to hope for assistance. This, however, does not mean that violence has increased: it could mean that women's ability to react is finally increasing. And it is a very positive signal in our battle against the submerged phenomenon of violence, which demonstrates an increasing awareness of women who come out of the open and find the courage to denounce the violence suffered, which very often take place within the domestic walls. It is then up to us, however, to give an answer in terms of security and protection to their courage. The number 1522 for asking for assistance and denouncing is certainly an important tool, but there is still a lot to do. To this end, I hope that the measure adopted yesterday in the Council of Ministers, the so-called 'Red Code', will indeed lead to the simplification of the bureaucratic procedures for complaints, which has already been speeded up, but not enough; a judicial procedure which we have always been asking for shorter. I hope that at last the judicial authorities can access independently on the net to verify the possible registration of criminal proceedings for crimes in the matter of violence and civil proceedings for separation and divorce, in which it is necessary to assume determinations for the minor children. It is unacceptable that the courts do not communicate with each other and that there is, in parallel with a complaint for ill-treatment by the civil court, the lack of knowledge of the court of minors that gives the foster care in cases of ill-treatment in the family. The courts and prosecutors must speak to each other and this situation, which undermines the rights to the safety of women and their children, must be put to an end. For the victims it is really long and massacred: a torture that must sometimes wait for years to arrive at a definitive measure. It would also be time to eliminate the abbreviated rite for feminicide. The so-called "Red Code" should also include free sponsorship when voluntary associations form a civil part. It is also certainly very important to work in schools for a change of pace in the mindset and to get our children back to the respect of the person as a child. I had the pleasure of meeting last week, in the Senate, the students of a school in Lucca that every year with their professors, after a terrible trauma suffered (two of their peers were killed by their boyfriends), develop awareness projects on the subject of violence. The role of school and university is fundamental and these are the first institutions that must make prevention a key principle against all violence, also because unfortunately statistics tell us that the age of the victims is getting lower and we are also seeing a decrease in the age of the perpetrators of violence. Finally, I hope that the government can already find in the budget law for 2019 more funds for anti-violence centers, in favour of all those victims who have had the courage to denounce and certainly need to rebuild their lives. Just yesterday President Conte announced a special fund of 33 million euros to finance anti-violence projects, entrusting it to the Department for Equal Opportunities. I am very sorry not to see this morning undersecretary Spadafora, who has been assigned the delegation to equal opportunities. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] I greatly appreciated the words of Vice Prime Minister Salvini, who said yesterday that ethical issues are not in the government contract. I really hope that undersecretary Spadafora will be able to forget for a moment his battle for the adoption of children by homosexual couples to deal with an urgent and urgent problem such as that of feminicide and violence against women. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u23	Senator Messina is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, violence against women is one of the most serious violations of human rights and the most widespread of those perpetrated in our country. It is a dimension of which we assume progressive awareness starting precisely from the painful and heterogeneous stratification of experiences that are now manifest almost daily in all their heinousness. History puts us in front of these situations, highlighting also the risk of an addiction or even of a surrender on the part of the community. Now the issue has exploded to push the law to counter the phenomenon and to empower the state to take a clear position. In education, training, work and social and professional relations, women continue to be in many cases, even silently, subtly penalized by the symbolic overthrow of pseudoforms of gratification which, rather, deprive the same territories of true freedom and self-determination. We avoid the clamour, the noisy discrimination and the high-sounding bans, all because the age-old belief that women have another place, another role, another function has not yet been removed. This attitude is perpetuated in the languages, in the meta-languages, in the uses of social activity and, above all, through communication and information, also commercial, which, as we have pointed out in our motion, is detrimental to the dignity of the person, stigma of a lowering of the cultural and value level. The discrimination has gone through decades of careless awareness, poor education, sometimes even ineffective legislation. Today we, elected by the people, cannot hide it and above all we cannot hide in front of it. We have a moral, civil and historical duty to make a definitive breakthrough; we have an obligation to intervene vigorously and firmly, with an action that means all the will and strength of the State, above all - let me say this - by ripping off Maya's veil of hypocrisy that circulates in repeated and sometimes very dangerous pronunciations of good intentions, many times destined to remain so (i.e. only pronunciations), in this way raising us from the responsibility to keep our firm point of view on the conduct and political choices to be put in the field. We must give women and men a clear and unequivocal signal, starting from this Parliament and coming to reassure each and every one of us that the State is with us. To this end, the issue must be dealt with politically on the basis of the causes which generate it, which are cultural in nature. Among them is the theme of loneliness and unsolved suffering, because where suffering is unsolved and unheard it becomes the justification of a push that spills into the ground of violence. The antecedent of feminicide is the conflict that has its roots in the condition of ridicule that solitude and incommunicability generate. These are social issues that need political action. Let's think about solutions, but let's also think about activating social watchmen, intervening on education and awareness - especially of the younger generations, but not only - for the development of a full awareness of the drama that is repeated. The state must give support and support to all women who experience the infamous consequences of ignorance and indifference and must do so long before they vent into domestic violence and feminicide. It is essential to reflect and act on the structures that can help to catch the symptoms of crimes that have yet to be committed, rather than putting in place remedies once this has been done. The so-called "Red Code" illustrated yesterday strengthens our conviction that security measures are needed, but the real issue today is the implementation of the laws and, above all, the financial resources made available. An opaque attitude on the part of anyone can dramatically represent a livid swamp, a shadowy area, which we now have to unravel and cross, giving form and real voice to political choices sustained by passion and full responsibility. Beyond every day, in the unfolding of the krónos and the kairós, the time for us all must be that full of respect. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u25	She's registered to speak Senator Rivolta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u26	Mr President, many people believe that these moments of reflection are useless, that they are just words. In my opinion this is not the case at all: these are moments to reason and to reiterate that there are so many opportunities to grow and to become a more civilised country, starting with this House. Unfortunately, in this very Chamber - perhaps it has escaped, but it has been heavy - I heard one day a colleague from the Democratic Party, probably very distracted, address a colleague and say to her: Go to the kitchen! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] He probably ran away to others too: I stigmatize that joke because I heard it with my own ears. It is normal to use certain expressions and to consider a sexist comment or too heavy a compliment. What's not normal, though, is that people who hear it pretend to be nothing. We must therefore raise awareness and raise awareness of others so that our country will begin to be a more civilised country in this field as well. I think there's a fundamental problem. This morning I made an intervention in the Commission in the work we are doing here, even though the speech is general. I am referring to the issue of lack of authority, which has failed in recent years. It has happened that parents are no longer authoritative and children are allowed to disrespect them; teachers are no longer authoritative, so we are witnessing bullying - we have also seen them on television - even against them. What about our category? We are absolutely not authoritative: we make the laws, but we are not authoritative. The same can be said for magistrates and professionals, and the list continues. We cannot claim to make a law and suddenly return to authority: we must regain authority as politicians, as parliamentarians, as parents, as wives, as husbands, as teachers and so on. It is tiring and certainly involves a personal cost, but it is only through this process that we can think of sending the right message to young people. As many of you know, I am also a local administrator and, when, as a city councilman for education at the beginning of the year, I offer my greetings to the children, I always recommend them - who are certainly very good and can do a hundred thousand things more than me - that you become great also thanks to the courage to denounce the things that are not going, not only to parents, but also to teachers. So when you witness an act of bullying, when you see that something is wrong - whether it's towards a woman, a man or a boy - there's only one way to behave: you have to have the courage to say that this thing is wrong, because only with this sense of responsibility you become adults. There is another aspect to be highlighted, which is also the basis of the many episodes that we see, both of bullying and violence against women, that is, emotional fragility and non-control of impulses. We all feel anger, jealousy and all possible and imaginable emotions, but it seems to me that the control of these emotions has failed. There is fragility and inability to control emotions. If a man sees a beautiful girl on the tram, he feels free to put a hand on her. No! Those who are close must react, not just the woman. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups and Senator Minuto.]] That is the problem and the same applies to bullying. To all of us some schoolmates were disliked, but no one dreamed of beating him or doing things like that, and at least the phenomenon was less widespread. Therefore, on all sides there must be attention to this and we too can do our part. I'll bring you back a sentence... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] . .in relation to foreign citizens, who were told to me in Libya in 2005 by a very good guide, who told me: See, there's a problem, because everything you can see, you can touch. You understand that we are not there and that, in this way, the freedom of expression of any person is trampled on. There is much to be done and we have a huge responsibility. We begin with the resumption of our authority and we can also do so through the approval of the so-called "Codice rosso" measure, which constitutes a great step forward, for which I thank the Government, Minister Salvini and also our Minister Bongiorno, who has been fighting on these issues for years. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups and Senator Minuto.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u27	She's enlisted to speak Senator Matrisciano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a premise before I begin my speech. We believe that, in a context such as today's and, above all, on a subject as important as today's, the exploitation of political attacks is not correct. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The 5 Star Movement has always strongly condemned any kind of sexist and masculinistic attitude to the detriment of women and therefore we do not accept criticism from political forces that perhaps have not always shown respect for women. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] However, we are pleased that some women have realized this. I shall proceed with my speech. On the occasion of the day against violence against women, which takes place on 25 November, ISTAT carried out for the first time a survey on the services offered by the anti-violence centres in Italy. The data released by Istat are, to say the least, alarming. In 2017, nearly 50,000 women turned at least on one occasion to an anti-violence center to report harassment, abuse, insults, assaults or worse. Entering into the details of the numbers provided by the statistical institute, it emerges, for example, that out of a total of 49,152 women, who in 2017 addressed the centres financed by the Regions, 59.4% began a path of exit from violence, 29.6 percent of women are foreign and 73.6 percent have children, who are underage in over 70 percent of cases. These are disturbing data, all the more so if crossed with those diffused by Eures, according to which in the first ten months of 2018 in Italy there were 106 feminicides, one every three days. The centres provide mainly listening and reception services, legal support, guidance and support to other services, psychological support, help during removal from the violent partner, work orientation and support for autonomy: in some cases, the service is provided directly from the centre; in others, in collaboration with the services on the territory; in others, the centre fulfils the task of addressing. Continuing to read the data provided by the ISTAT report, it turns out that the majority of the centres (so 85.8 percent) work online with other authorities in the territory and that almost all (95.3 percent) join the 1522 national green number against violence and stalking. There are about 4,400 operatives who in 2017 worked at the anti-violence centres, 56.1 percent of whom were engaged exclusively in voluntary form. The professional figures present in the centres are specifically trained operators. 93 per cent of anti-violence centres have compulsory training and 85 per cent of the centres themselves have organised training courses for staff. The anti-violence centers were born in Italy thanks to the work of the women's movement and the experience of the consultors who, in support of the law on voluntary termination of pregnancy, have allowed women to meet with each other, to speak about body, sexuality, relations with men and therefore, consequently, on violence and rape suffered in the family, as well as in the contexts of friendship and work. Women of all social backgrounds are addressed to anti-violence centres and the most represented class is the middle class. With regard to violence against women, it is often forgotten that it is men who are the protagonists of violence: violence is a male problem and, apart from some sporadic cases, men do not feel directly called into question to discuss it. Anti-violence centers are therefore a privileged laboratory to observe and record changes in gender relationships: they carry out campaigns of education to respect and difference in schools and with adolescents, according to the logic of preventing the spread of violent and stereotyped behaviors in young people. In conclusion, as a member of the Committee on Children and Adolescence, I think that we must work on the new generations, so that, once again, the great responsibility rests on the concepts of education and respect, starting from the foundations, the new generations and prevention. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] This sentence I like to say with a sense of love: we teach children the delicacy of gestures and the grace of the soul; we teach girls to love each other; we teach respect with respect, love with love and non-violence with non-violence, because children follow what we do, more than we say. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as many have already mentioned, according to the most prudent estimates, millions of women have suffered at least one episode of violence throughout their lives and, only in Italy, at least one and a half million have been raped. Although things have fortunately improved in recent years, still too few women report, especially in the case of domestic violence. They do not do it out of fear, out of shame and probably also because they do not enjoy the economic autonomy that would allow them the freedom to do so. Above all, they do not do this because of a misunderstanding of the sense of duty towards the family and children, which all too often transforms these episodes of violence into an ever more serious escalation, which reaches the murder of the woman as such: this is the feminicide, the last act of an escalation that, if prevented and stopped in time, could avoid leading to such a tragic outcome. Not to mention genital mutilation, brides, trafficking in foreign women imported from Eastern countries by criminal organizations or Africa by the Nigerian mafia. Cases of which there is too little talk, in respect of a politically correct misunderstanding and in respect of a cultural relativism that we denounce and condemn in the most absolute way. Too many women, I said, do not report because they are left alone after the complaint; too many women are killed by their torturer because they are left alone by the state. It is easy, ladies and gentlemen, to tell women to denounce, without wondering why so few still do so, without wondering why there is still an underestimation of violence against women, especially if this happens within the domestic walls, and without wondering why, even if the judiciary issues protection measures, these too many times remain Manzoni's cries, measures without concrete effectiveness and without concrete implementation. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] You see, certain decisions of the judiciary (not all, for pity's sake) leave much perplexed. It is a few days ago the decision of a magistrate who excluded the attack of group rape against the executioners of Desirée, only because - think a little - his executioners, after having made her unable to understand what happened and defend herself, raped her in turn instead of all together. These are decisions such as these, ladies and gentlemen, which drive women away from the desire to denounce. [[Applause from the FdI groups and Senator Aimi]] And we must have the courage, while respecting the separation of powers, to stigmatize these decisions, which so seriously affect the state of mind of women who want to free themselves from their condition of awe, from their condition of subjection and from the violence that they too often have to suffer, not only physical violence, but also psychological, economic and at the workplace. I am thinking, for example, of the case of that judge who acquitted that protester who spat on a cop in the exercise of his duty. It is decisions that drive public opinion and citizens away from the sense of the institutions. We heard the Government's announcement yesterday and we hope that for once we will not stop at the announcements alone. We finally agree on the adoption of a preferential lane for certain crimes, from family abuse to stalking, to sexual violence. We agree above all on the obligation of the prosecutor to hear the victim of these crimes within seventy-two hours, so that the law enforcement forces that receive the complaints do not put them in a drawer, do not forget them and do not underestimate them. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the Brothers of Italy strongly supports the motion tabled as the first signatory by Mrs Isabella Rauti. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Aimi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u31	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u32	Mr President, I would like to thank all my fellow Members here today for discussing these motions, which objectively have many points of contact: they are by far more the points of contact than the differences between the motions. If we were already starting from this crucial node, which is a profound node of sharing, to propose to the Government, through its proposal of the code red, the possibility of creating a bridge between a government-type initiative and a parliamentary one, shared, we would perhaps give a good signal of the centrality of female thinking within a line of government. As we have all seen, the motions, for the majority, have been written and presented by women, although fortunately they have been signed by many colleagues from their respective groups; they are the representation of a common and shared feeling. It is this feeling that must constitute the real point of change of a system. I say this for a very simple reason. We have laws. The previous legislature, of which I am glad to have been a member, has intervened several times. We began, at the beginning of the legislature, with a famous motion on feminicide; we took a structural and strong position, implementing the Istanbul Convention; we aggravated the punishments related to the law that had been signed by the previous government against stalking; we went on, in several other passages, always with this common feeling of denunciation. I am not here to remind colleagues how many times, in the speeches at the end of the sitting, the case, the problem, the concreteness of the singular with respect to a wider and more general suffering has been raised. However, this does not at all fuel hope, optimism, a prospect of confidence in a future that has resulted, in fact, in a reduction in the episodes of violence. Sometimes I wonder if the violence that most frequently occupies the front pages of newspapers and repeat news, for several evenings in a row, is not the result of greater knowledge, which makes the denunciation more explicit, or there is no emulation, which comes from a trivialization, sometimes, of violence. I highlight the concept of trivialization and I would like to focus on three small examples that can offer a different angle to look at the problem. I begin with the first: you will all remember that years ago the rector of Harvard University claimed that the female brain was inferior as capacity. Said from the temple of culture, where many Nobel prizes were born, this aggression against women was frankly devalued. But even more I was surprised, a few months ago, by the University of Pisa, which represents one of the temples of culture, one of the excellences among Italian universities, the affirmation of the inability of women to face scientific studies, which is absolutely false; vice versa, the facts show how much the woman is engaged in all works and in all scientific studies. This, if you want to take into account the positive contribution that women give and do not want to denounce, instead, that form of violence, the famous crystal roof, which allows women to work with a continuous and systematic commitment, except then to rip them, at the last moment, the role of coordination, representation and merit; of this there are many examples also in the history of Nobel Prize winners. There is still the belief that there is something missing from female intelligence, underestimating not only the real presence of what is there, but also the specific contribution, in terms of relational quality, relationship, ability to build communication networks. Finally, a small piece of news appeared the other day on the front page of the "Corriere della sera": it seems that in Milan there are dozens and dozens of monuments to illustrious men and there is not even one to a woman. This is happening in Milan, we are in Rome, we do not want to question ourselves, but it is something that strikes us. Then the remedy, in my opinion, was worse than evil, because it proposed a cumulative monument, that put together all women, where the line should have been: many are the excellences, as are the monuments. [[Call the president back.]] These cultural factors run the risk of putting in silence what is instead the violence that unleashes in arrogance, in presumption, in the conviction of being able to impose a vocabulary, a scale of values, a criterion of judgment that essentially keeps women in a subordinate position, without ever recognizing to the female its specificity, its value, its strength, its ability to transform the context. [[Applause from the FI-BP and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u33	Senator Iori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every new episode of violence against women leaves us dumb and dismayed; every update of the statistical data, which are impressive and which have already been mentioned in the previous speeches, confirms that this horror of physical, psychological and sexual aggression is on the increase and that domestic ill-treatment, even against pregnant women, even in the face of terrified children, is increasingly widespread. Most of these feminicides are committed by men who had a sentimental relationship with their victims. A sentimental relationship: but what feelings are we talking about? This is one of the most important nodes, perhaps the one from which to start, as has already been mentioned. I am referring to emotional illiteracy, speechlessness, the inability to name what we feel and therefore to carry out behavior as a result of what we feel. Certainly the first emergency, mentioned in all the interventions, is to combat the human, social and even economic costs of violence against women; to enforce the laws, to strengthen the anti-violence centers, to accompany the victims towards paths of self-esteem and courage. However, prevention is the most important action. Let us then start by strengthening a great educational investment, already begun in the last legislature, involving the school and not only, from early childhood, on the use of words, textbooks, games, sport, choice of studies, social commitment, to raise children and girls in respect of gender differences and equal dignity. Because growing in sexist stereotypes discredits the esteem of women as people, penetrates into family relationships, work relationships, career paths. Two, then, are in particular the objectives that I would like to stress: socio-affective education and education to corporeity. Take responsibility for yourself. This is what the school, where the family does not do, should teach girls to promote the development of an authentic self-project, in a patriarchal system that devalues them, humiliates them, hurts them, where verbal violence and haste speech on the net also pave the way for violence on the body. It is difficult to counter the imaginary, which is like a deforming mirror fed by the media, which pushes to exhibit a body, reduced to object, instrument of desire, possession of someone else. The risk is that girls will then be expropriated of a life of their own being a body. So taking responsibility for your body-person means teaching girls who can be as strong as Bebe Vio and even exploring space, like Samantha Cristoforetti. Educating to the dignity of the female body is, therefore, part of education to the difference in the path of growth towards authenticity, but in order to achieve this it is necessary for educators (men and women) to be convinced of the feminine value. This is not an easy task that also involves male stereotypes. Children can learn from authoritative educators that they can be equally virile without conforming to the traditional model of physical strength, hardness and competitiveness. It is, therefore, time to teach children that, for example, tenderness can be a new heroic virtue today. President, the political-pedagogical conclusion is, therefore, an apparent paradox: to be equal in order to be different because the value of equality remains indispensable, but every difference is a resource and without equal dignity this difference remains opposition, inferiority and dependence. We must, therefore, educate to reciprocity, initiate new behaviors, values and methods of communication, where the encounter with the otherness of gender takes place as a place of us, where there is an authentic relationship from one you to another you in a difference where the opposition, which characterizes the traditional relationships, can translate into an exchange that grows in the reciprocity of words and behaviors. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u35	I didn't interrupt it, even if it took an extra minute, because I appreciated his words and I thought it was a mistake to interrupt it. Senator Nisini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the senators of my Group who jointly signed this motion, which focuses on all the forms of violence that women suffer every day in Italy and throughout the world. The evidence of violence against women is clear: more than 700 million women were married when they were not yet eighteen and some 250 million of them were married even before the age of 15. There are 120 million girls who have suffered sexual violence; not to mention the phenomenon of genital mutilation, to whom 200 million women are still forced in as many as 30 countries, where this practice is considered a tradition to be respected. In Italy every seventy-two hours a woman dies and one woman in three has suffered violence at least once. Some might wonder about this data, because often the term violence is associated exclusively with its most extreme form, feminicide. On the other hand, there are many forms of violence against women: women who are humiliated, abused, injured in self-esteem or, again, hindered in achieving economic independence; women who are forbidden to decide freely and independently of their lives, women who are offered money to give birth and give to others their own children. Some people in this House still think that it is right to do so. Childbirth is the greatest act of love; it is the miracle that a man and a woman create. It can't be anything else, not what some political party wants us to believe to be equal because selling their bodies is just violence. A woman who, in fact, gives her uterus does it for money, nothing else. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The resulting psychological consequences are often not taken into account. If the numbers don't lie - they don't lie and we're sure - there are our neighbors, friends and acquaintances among these women and there could be our girls. States have a duty to exercise the necessary responsibility to prevent, investigate and prosecute acts of violence against women. States have a duty to prosecute and punish those responsible for abuse and violence and, unlike the previous government that has not presented any ad hoc bill but only guidelines, this government yesterday showed, once again, that it has moved from words to deeds. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Just yesterday, the Council of Ministers, in fact, signed the bill "Red Code" to protect women and against violence against women, born from the initiative of the Double Defense Foundation. Too many women, in fact, despite complaints, die or continue to suffer abuse pending trial. With this bill, however, we call for immediate and direct action. Within three days the women will have to be heard, the police will have to immediately communicate to the prosecutor the news of the crime acquired, without leaving discretion on the existence of the urgency. Among the various points envisaged, in fact, there is the amendment of Article 347 of the Code of Criminal Procedure that establishes the obligation of the Judicial Police to immediately communicate to the public prosecutor the news of crimes acquired, if they concern crimes of ill-treatment, sexual violence, persecutor acts and aggravated injuries, committed in family contexts or of simple coexistence, without leaving discretion on the existence of urgency. Then there is the amendment of Article 362, which provides that in cases of domestic and gender-based violence the prosecutor will listen to the victim of the crime within three days of the initiation of the proceedings. There is the integration of Article 370 which obliges the Judicial Police to give priority to the conduct of investigations delegated by the prosecutor, when it comes to crimes of abuse and sexual violence, persecutors and aggravated injuries, committed in the family or of simple coexistence. At the same time the findings acquired with the activity carried out must be documented and transmitted in a manner equally timely to the prosecutor, The bill introduces finally the obligation of training for the State Police, Arma dei carabinieri and Prison Police, through the frequency of courses at specific institutes, to be provided to the personnel involved in procedures in the matter of domestic and gender violence. All women must be placed in a position to grasp the danger, denounce it and address the relevant institutions and receive effective and timely protection from them. I therefore appeal to women: denounce, do not be afraid, the State is finally there and is at your side with every means at its disposal. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] To conclude, I would like to point out that, contrary to what has been stated by the previous speaker, we do not make any cuts. This was stated yesterday by the President of the Count Council; not only new rules, but also funding and have already been recovered, from the previous appropriation, 33 million euros for 2019 for an ad hoc emergency fund, coordinated by the Undersecretary at equal opportunities Vincenzo Spadafora. It is therefore important that the decree-law finally and quickly arrives in the Senate and the House, where I hope (but I am sure it will be so) will be voted unanimously because, as initially said, there can be no political color in these struggles. I therefore hope that women will be given greater protection on behalf of all of us. [[Applause from the groups L-SP-PSd'Az and Senator Pisani Giuseppe]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u37	Senator Vono is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u38	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, our motion has some very simple but concrete initiatives within it to turn the many words we have heard into deeds these days. Days when we discussed feminicide, when the country stopped to reflect; days when we have to follow actions, because we have a duty to provide instruments of contrast and prevention that do not remain exclusively slogans. Gender violence is unfortunately not an exceptional phenomenon and cannot be tackled once a year. Yesterday the Council of Ministers approved the code of red to speed up the process of denouncing women who were victims of violence. A useful instrument of contrast, which must be accompanied by other measures, as well as supported by international bodies. The report of women's associations on the implementation of the Istanbul Convention in Italy, which analyses the Italian situation in the fight against violence against women, has shown that in our country the existing legislation in practice is not applied and that still, despite the economic resources allocated and the actions put in place to address the phenomenon, the distribution and the uneven application of the same resources on the national territory, ensures that the protection of the rights of victims of violence is not effective. With this motion we want to make it possible today that what is allocated annually to anti-violence centres and reception facilities for mothers and minors is provided regularly, without delay and bound to the assumption of precise commitments, the identification of priorities and the evaluation of the results obtained. It is necessary to fill the gaps in the application of the relevant laws by introducing implementing rules aimed at simplifying procedures with clear identification of the rule and imposition of the law. We have to deal with the associations that have been working on this difficult issue for years and with the anti-violence centres in their various variations in order to better understand not only the issues closely related to the episodes that occur daily, but the impact of economic appropriations and point out effective intervention strategies. The mapping of anti-violence centers, even with the necessary support of the Department for Equal Opportunities, must be updated by the Government according to reports received from Regions and Autonomous Provinces, in order to estimate the real needs of these centers and ensure, not only survival, but above all an appropriate functioning, able to ensure adequate services throughout the national territory. It is also essential to act in the field of education, because the problem is a cultural one, guaranteeing the right of girls, especially and in particular, to study for equal opportunities and rights and thus contribute to the social and economic inclusion of future women. Therefore, to intervene by setting up training courses for those working in the educational sectors; to strengthen school projects aimed at offering equal opportunities for relationships and integration into the social and economic life of women; to implement information campaigns within schools, but also in every field of work, aimed at spreading the culture of non-violence and respect for others; to activate specific and, in some cases, compulsory training in every professional sector involved in the prevention and combating of gender violence; to take intelligent communication initiatives that are not limited only to making greater attention to public opinion to emphasize the victim woman, misleading the perception of the female image, but also to bring out the wonderful world of women. Therefore, I insist in this House, without assuming it is obvious, on an effective commitment by the Government to take any decision against any act of violence against women. Finally, I conclude, as a woman, part of a half of heaven, to that other half of heaven, that I like to think it is men, our children, our husbands, engaged, friends, colleagues, fathers, inviting them to be outraged at every episode of violence against women, to witness the models of positive relationship between man and woman, to come out of silence demonstrating, finally, respect for their daughters, their wives, their girlfriends, their friends, their colleagues and their mothers. They find themselves, and we mothers have a great responsibility in this, the cultural and ethical strength to relate to women always in terms of equality of solidarity and respect. [[Applause from the M5S, FI-BP, L-SP-PSd'Az and Senator Alderisi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u39	I address the greetings of the Assembly to a representation of students of the Secondary School of First Degree "Ippolito Nievo" of the Institute including Via Boccioni in Rome, who attend our works. They are very young people, to whom I believe a considerable part of our speeches is addressed. Interventions that I dare to close saying that it is mainly up to us men, to us fathers, to teach our children that a woman does not even touch herself with a flower, as an ancient and wise proverb used to say. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u40	The debate is closed. I communicate that the following motions have been reworded: 1-00051, presented by Senator Marcucci and other senators, and 1-00054 (text 2), presented by Senator Maiorino and other senators. The lyrics are in distribution. No other motions have been amended or reworded to the Presidency. I now give the floor to the representative of the Government, to whom I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u41	Mr President, let us return to this debate the solemnity it deserves, especially for the presence of very young people who, indeed, will be those who will carry forward the values that we build together here today. I therefore express, on behalf of the Government, a favourable opinion on motions no. 49, 51 (text 2), 53, 54 (text 3), 55, 56 and 58. On behalf of the Government, I speak to say that the fight against violence against women is the game of all. This is the claim, not at all rhetorical, of the commercial made by RAI for the Department of Equal Opportunities on the occasion of the International Day against Violence against Women on 25 November. I really hope this is everyone's game, regardless of the political sides. I would like to reassure the House that the government has not reduced the funds earmarked for initiatives to combat violence against women. Apart from an ordinary and recurring 2.7% MEF cut, EUR 33 million will be made available this year, all of which will be aimed at concrete actions to prevent and protect women and truly punish the culprits. As long as this Government remains in office, state funds will be invested in anti-violence centers and shelter homes, as established with the Regions, and also in concrete initiatives and of sure impact for the lives of thousands of women victims of violence in our country. Two funds are being studied in particular: firstly, an ad hoc, fair and lasting fund for victims to receive effective economic support immediately after the violence suffered. Secondly, there is provision for the establishment of emergency reception facilities, which are active 24 hours a day, with first legal support, in all the regions, where women who are victims of violence in the intermediate phase, ranging from the complaint to the takeover by the anti-violence centres. On 26 September, undersecretary Spadafora set up and convened the first meeting of the new political-programmatic direction cabin provided for by the national strategic plan on male violence against women 2017-2020 in order to give concrete implementation to the plan itself. The national strategic plan on male violence against women, adopted by the previous government, takes up the contents of the Istanbul Convention, but needs concreteness and operation to avoid fragmentation and overlapping of interventions. Only the drawing up of an operational plan in which the objectives are declined in specific actions and interventions with the indication of time, modalities and resources, is able to give concreteness to the strategy. In this direction, the Government's response to everything, and in particular to the various ministries competent in addition to the regions and local authorities, has been positive and has materialized. On 21 November last year there was, in fact, the second meeting of the political-programmatic direction cabin with the adoption of a first operational plan. The collaboration with the main associations and the social partners has materialized thanks to their participation in the technical committee established on 25 October 2018 which constitutes the operational arm of the national strategic plan against the violence of men on women that met on 29 October and then again on 19 November. Moreover, it has been pointed out several times that yesterday the Council of Ministers approved a draft law, the so-called "Red Code," which aims to guarantee a preferential lane, namely greater protection for victims of sexual abuse and violence, persecutors and injuries committed in family contexts or in the context of relationships of coexistence, ensuring the prompt adoption of precautionary interventions or prevention. I believe I have outlined a firm and concrete commitment that the Government will carry out with extreme determination. I hope that this will happen with the contribution of all. If not now, when? If not us, who? [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u42	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u45	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Government, which has expressed a favourable opinion on all the motions. The Autonomy Group will vote in favour of all motions, with the exception of the first-ever Pucciarelli. It is not possible to classify gender violence as a fact that concerns the third world or some cultures also present in our country, as it is written in the motion. Moreover, if surrogacy is to be described as a form of violence against women, it must be said long before the exploitation of prostitution, which is not mentioned; on the contrary, the proposers are part of that party which has been said several times to support the reopening of closed houses. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD]] and that, through Senator Pillon, proposes a reform of the shared foster care. Nor does the typical anti-feminist phrase that we need to emerge from the dynamics of contrast between the sexes, as if violence were the daughter of a conflict between man and woman and not a form of prevarication of one sex on the other. Finally, there is no relevance in that motion to the issue of gender equality as a requirement to prevent the emergence of violence. It is known that most feminicides occur during the separation phase. Therefore, we need a family right that strengthens the position of women and does not weaken them, as unfortunately happens with the Pillon proposal. As far as the other motions are concerned, I have heard so many passionate and competent views, including from my male colleagues, whom I personally thank. Just as so many good ideas have been expressed, which I really hope will be central to the action of the Government and Parliament. The thousands of women who showed last Saturday in Rome, together with the many events that took place in all the Italian cities, tell us that on this topic is ripening an important awareness, starting with women. There have also been a number of awareness-raising initiatives in Parliament in the right direction. Now we must not give up the grip, but make sure that this greater awareness turns into concrete acts, measures to promote gender equality and to eradicate this horrendous social scourge. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u48	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, senators and senators, the motions we are about to vote on address a dramatic issue, which certainly cannot be the focus of our attention only on the occasion of celebrations and anniversaries. I have always argued that the fight against feminicide and gender violence cannot and should not be a battle for women alone, but a commitment of all those - men and women - who believe in equality, in the protection of human rights, in democracy. Any conduct that aims to annihilate women in their identity and freedom, not only physically but also in their psychological, social and working dimensions, is gender-based violence. It is a phenomenon that has many forms: from the sexism of certain statements wrongly considered to be light, to offense, to threats; from the use, which unfortunately is becoming frequent also in our country, of acid as a form of rubbing, to too many cases of feminicide. There are women who suffer daily abuse, sexual and psychological violence, threats and harassment and we must not forget that many of the victims of murder or serious injuries had already reported violence and abuse. Others, on the other hand, had never asked for help because of distrust in the institutions, lack of means or a dangerous underestimation of the violence suffered. Women who, at last found the strength to get out of such situations, do not then meet the social and institutional support necessary to rebuild their lives. It is not normal for it to be normal. It is a slogan that makes this situation better than anything else. In order to effectively combat this drift, I believe it is essential to ensure effective protection for victims from the very first criminally significant acts. Already when the victims turn to the emergency room, for example, there is a police station that could begin to understand the situation. Or I think about anti-violence associations, which can be an observatory whose activity begins precisely from those traumatic moments. Perhaps we should also increase the training of police forces or set up specialised sections and sections also in the prosecutors of the Republic, as some proxy offices already do. It must be possible to prevent further more serious offenses which, with a growing intensity, often culminate in the murder; moreover, it should facilitate the emergence of oppressions, which in too many cases are kept hidden by the same victims for fear or shame. We note that the Government has put forward with great emphasis the so-called "Red Code" bill for women who are victims of ill-treatment. I would like to remind you that an intervention in this regard already exists and has been approved in the last parliamentary term by Law No 119 of 15 October 2013. In the same way, I remember that there is already an obligation for the police forces that receive a complaint to transmit it immediately to the prosecutors. We need a commitment to put this into practice and not the usual slogans. Start working to make things work. The ratification of the Istanbul Convention marks a gradual increase in interventions and rules of great importance, since it is the first legally binding instrument which establishes a comprehensive legal framework for protection against violence. The most important innovation is to identify the pivot of law enforcement strategies in the prevention and protection of victims, including through preventive actions in the field of education and information, as well as medical and psychological support measures. This objective requires the commitment of all the forces of the country to educate and inform citizens, starting from schools, subtracting victims from the economic need and supporting the improvement of women's living conditions and legal and de facto equality. A strong and clear condemnation reaction is needed. There is no tolerance or justification for conduct that undermines women's rights. The shared awareness of the seriousness of the problem, as often happens in the field of social behavior, is the indispensable prerequisite for a real and concrete change to take place one day, which must be first and foremost cultural. We are finally questioning our ancient models of reference and, in this sense, the school has a decisive role in teaching from the earliest age that there is no excuse, there are no exceptions, alibis or justifications for behaviors that violate the freedom of a woman. We are trying, at last, to make the culture that provided fixed and immutable roles abandon, but deep down - we know - there are still stereotypes and cages that must be eradicated. The chronicle is really full of stories where men of all ages use violence, in its different forms, against women. What arouses even more alarm is that for every story of which we have news there are others, many others, in which pain and violence sometimes come from silence, shame and, unfortunately, impunity. Fundamental in this sense is the support from the State, in all its articulations, to the anti-violence centers, to the listening and reception centers throughout the national territory. Therefore, the violence against women - and I am beginning to conclude - must not also be discussed by men, but above all by men. Too long it has been wrong: for years we have left women alone to fight this battle of civilization. In addition to numbers there are people: even one episode is too much. So we have to keep talking about it all the time, to change the wrong behavior right from the start. We have made enormous progress, but we are still very far from the goal. I cannot fail to point out in this House that the text of the first-signed motion by Senator De Petris includes clear commitments for the Government and for the majority. Those who represent the citizens are asked to follow in their votes, actions, decisions and measures. To be against gender violence means not to expose women, especially minors, to the pillage of social media, as the Minister of the Interior has recently done. Hundreds of unworthy comments have spilled over three very young students without the profile holder taking the distance. Being against gender violence means increasing economic, work, social and family protection against women, in the family context and also in cases of separation and divorce. For this reason, no vote and no motion will be required, unless at the same time the Billon bill is withdrawn, rejected without any reservation also by the Undersecretary with delegation to equal opportunities Vincenzo Spadafora, of your own Government. [[Applause from Senator La Forgia]] It is with these reasons that I announce the vote in favour of the Misto-Liberi Group and Equal to the first-signed motion by Senator De Petris. [[Applause from the Misto-Leu Group and Senator Minuto.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u51	GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Brothers of Italy Group will vote in favour of all motions, although we understand that different sensibilities are expressed within them, but we believe that this House on such an important issue as the battle against violence against women cannot and should not divide. Having said that, however, I would like to take this opportunity, because I would like to appeal to all the women in this House, to all the women in this House. I believe that as far as violence against women is concerned, the situation is not improving, but it is getting worse. I am convinced that we must change the pattern, because what has been put in place so far has not worked and does not work and we should question why it does not work. In our opinion, and in my opinion, it does not work because what we are thinking about is a male issue, it is not a female issue. We women don't kill each other, but we get killed by men. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP, L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] I therefore believe that, as long as we women become protagonists - a few times during the year, but certainly at the same time as 25 November, World Day against Violence against Women - we do not serve to solve or at least try to solve this huge problem. Men should be the protagonists: in this House this morning I would not have liked to hear women speak, because we have nothing to do with it. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] In fact, let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen, we are a little instrument, we make use of ourselves to be form and very little substance. [[Comments of Senator Faithful]] Ladies and gentlemen, then take the courage of two hands: bring a reflection into your world. You see to it that you become protagonists on this topic. I believe that we women only have a chance to help you men, and we should do it better and perhaps more, in our role as mothers. I'm a mom of a male son and the only thing I tried to do - then it's all to see if I've succeeded - is to educate my son in love. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] The only thing we women can do, as mothers, is to educate male children to love, to love women, because love brings with it respect, which very often lacks in you men. These are not my words, but it has always been said that the degree of civilization of a population is measured by the degree of respect that men have towards women. Dear colleagues, let us therefore subtract ourselves from this theater that every time sees us as protagonists. Today I am not happy to be here to make the explanation of vote: I say it honestly. Perhaps a man should have done it for me and, in the same way, this morning I would have liked to hear many men speak, who, instead, removed some exceptions, I did not hear. I also take this opportunity to talk to you about something else: I understand that we are not and are not fashionable, because they are not and are not politically correct, but I did not find in any motion the question of Islamic culture [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups and Senator Bonfrisco]] , which I do not pose because I am a fanatic or paranoid extremist, but based simply on the data: on 2,783 acts of violence against women in our nation, 1,115 were committed by those Italians who are not. Let me remind you that the foreign population in our nation is 8 percent and that - if we are all able to account for it - it commits 42 percent of the acts and crimes of sexual violence. This should question us and make all of us politically unfair, because it is true that many sexual violence is committed within our families, it is true that this also affects many Italian boyfriends and husbands - it is all very true - but we have a foreign population of 8% of the total, who commit 42% of these crimes. In this House, however, today, in all the motions we have pretended that the problem of Islamic culture - or Islamist, for those who are more politically correct - does not exist. We at the Brothers of Italy dedicated the day of November 25 in Desirée [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups and Senator Bonfrisco]] , with a demonstration in front of the Tribunal of Rome, with our leader Giorgia Meloni. We wanted to dedicate this day to Desirée for two reasons: the first is that the State failed, because those men who killed and raped Desirée should not have been on national territory. The second question is very much related to security, because remember that much more security means more freedom, especially for us women. We dedicated this day to Desirée precisely because we wanted to point out the enormous problem that uncontrolled immigration has brought to our nation. The fact that 8% of the population commit 42% of rape and sexual violence, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot pretend that it is nothing. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] We must become aware, because until we become aware of this issue we will not make any contribution to solving such a serious problem that we have been talking about for so many years. However, I would like to bring to your attention another important problem, namely the age of the victims: 753 rapes have involved girls who were not 14 years old. Have you asked yourself any questions? Have you wondered why the age of the victims is falling? I have done so and I try to make my contribution, helping you in the answer. Unfortunately, tribal rites brought by the African people have been introduced into our country. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and Senator Bonfrisco groups.]] Such rites plan to rape and rape people who are not of age, who are fourteen years old. Group rape is done within a well-defined tribal scheme. As an Italian, then, I believe that we cannot absolutely keep quiet about all this, in the face of a magistrate who tries to rob the crime of rape, as in the case of Desirée, with the motivation that was not group, because, although she was raped, it was from one man after another. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Tell me, then: what is group rape, if not a violence that is committed by more men, one after the other? We cannot, therefore, shut our eyes or fail to see how uncontrolled immigration - or rather the invasion, for those who are politically incorrect - has increased cases of violence against women. I really hope that we take note of all this and this uncontrolled immigration and that we stop saying that it is only the Italians who rape and rape women. I would like to refer you to Cardinal Biffi's words when he said that immigration must be compatible, which we have abandoned. I do not think it is good for either Italy or the Italians to import cultures that do not focus on respect for women, in which it is normal to stone or kill them, or from states where doing this is not even a crime. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Bonfrisco.]] In conclusion, Mr President, as I have already announced, the Brothers of Italy Group will vote in favour of all the motions, but we want to point out to all our colleagues that they should open their eyes and not be too politically correct. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and Senator Bonfrisco groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u54	VALENT (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask myself, first of all, and then to many colleagues, who I imagine will share my spirit, to fly over various passages and over the background of the previous speech. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] I say this without any controversy, because I believe that today the effort must continue to be to build a united climate and tension on a subject that we have chosen to address in a way that I do not know whether it is solemn or not - and now I address instead to the Undersecretary of the King, who has intervened - but that is certainly serious and rigorous. I would therefore like to start with a thank you to the colleagues of the Forza Italia Group who, together with those of the opposition forces, have immediately chosen to join their voice with the request of the Democratic Party to put this item on the agenda. My thanks also go to the majority forces which, without hesitation, have accepted this request. I would like to start here, because frankly it seems to me the most useful and effective way to honour today, but above all to renew with it a commitment to continue on the path to defeat the dramatic phenomenon of violence against women. 12.04 p.m. (Following VALENT). Many things have been said in this House today; I want to express a sincere word of appreciation for the many men who have spoken, starting with my colleague Alfieri and his words. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And many things have been said in these days in the House, in the debate that preceded us, and also in the press, in the public debate. It would therefore perhaps be superfluous to repeat more dramatic and sad numbers and statistics, which of course must never be forgotten, because they are an essential point of reference and, however dramatic, have their own bearing and strength. These are numbers, however, that nail us all to a great responsibility: the fight against violence against women and all forms of violence against women is and must continue to be a priority for all, to be played by force of things together. And so today I believe that a commitment is a priority: no rhetoric and no political polemic on the skin and the body of women. Nothing, we subtract. [[Applause from the PD Group]] However, the evaluation must be lucid and attentive to the enormous extent of a phenomenon that continues to emerge in its atrocious drama. All the data tell us about a widespread, widespread and unfortunately structural phenomenon. That is why - and I say this in a very clear premise - I do not think that the words of the Undersecretary Spadafora have been useful and wise - which I also know as an attentive person to these issues and which I would have liked to see here this morning - at the celebration of 25 November. To him and to the government we say that the adversaries are not us, they are not your oppositions. If this is your battle, we are on the same side and ask you to be at our side. We must understand, however, what our common adversary is. For us it is represented - I say this clearly - by a patriarchal organization of society, still too often founded on a profound, unjust and unjust disparity of powers between men and women. It is this disparity that incubates relationships and relationships that are unbalanced and sick, which generate oppression and violence. I would like to remind myself and all of us that violence is the first instrument by which men's physical and cultural domination over women is affirmed, that domination which in this century, fortunately, has been called into question by so many achievements, by inviolable and social rights of women, but which in no democracy, once achieved, can be said to have been achieved forever. That's why I want to go back to our role. Ours here in Parliament can only be an alliance, ours must be a united and cohesive effort to extinguish all explicit and hidden attempts to defend or rebuild models of society, fortunately largely outdated, based on profoundly different and unbalanced roles between men and women. These are the adversaries and enemies of this battle. That is why the Democratic Party has worked and hoped to build a shared voice around a united motion. We must recognize that this land is not yet fully shared; some have chosen to maintain divisive elements. But we don't give up. We shall vote in favour of so many measures and we call for the convergence points to be continued in particular. In these years, and not only in the last few years, many results have been achieved, although in very different political and cultural contexts; even in those that could appear more hostile, it has always been possible to make significant steps forward. It has been done by the Berlusconi Government, with the measures on stalking, until we reach our last governments, which have impressed a decisive acceleration on this path. I could make a very long list of things done: anti-violence plans, shelter houses, funding, the Istanbul Convention, the protocols of the Forces of Order, the Minister Fedeli with his work in the field of training, the police forces, even within the process. You took a further step yesterday and we recognise it; we have no problem recognising that even small steps, like the one taken yesterday, are heading in the right direction. Of course we will consider whether there will be the resources needed to make those commitments effective. We do not want us to be given the credit for everything we have done, we are not here for that. We don't want to split up on this. But let us ask you one thing: continue on the road we have marked and, if you do not share it, amend it and make other proposals. However, in both cases, the only thing you can't do is stand still, because standing still you risk going back. This would be the most serious responsibility and, if it does not happen, we must not waste any more time. We can't waste time because we're worried. We are concerned by the still too high number of unfair behaviors, persecuting acts, assaults and fatal violence against women. Many behaviors remain hidden or not denounced. We have denounced a problem that concerns first of all the knowledge of the situations in which violence occurs, we still have too much difficulty to trace the dynamics that are at the origin of it. In order to improve, broad prevention policies are needed, with reference points available to women who experience this difficulty. We are concerned because we do not see the action to implement the national plan approved in 2017. We are concerned that the training protocols, those already signed and those for the prison police and the municipal police will be stopped. We are concerned because we do not see any progress in the dialogue with the Supreme Council of the judiciary. On this point, Senator Alfieri has already made himself clear. We are concerned because in this budget law the Government is cutting the resources of the National Anti-Violence Plan, the Fund for Policies on Rights and Equal Opportunities and the Fund's availability for anti-trafficking measures. But I want to be even clearer and more sincere: to worry more is the cultural trait of this Government and the complicit silence of who ever - I repeat never - should allow on the bulletin board of a Vice Premier, as well as Minister of the Interior, three underage girls to be fed to the lions of the web. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u55	Senator, I gave you almost three more minutes. You must, of course, conclude your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u56	VALENT (PD). Didn't I have ten minutes? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, Senator, she was five minutes old, and I already gave her eight. Mr Marcucci (PD). It was ten minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I've got times marked and it's five minutes. I didn't want to interrupt and seem inappropriate, but it's already been over three minutes since you were allowed time. Please conclude. VALENT (PD). In the face of a minister who unceasingly fomented public humility against three young people who had challenged him, the indignation of those who have government responsibilities on this front had to be lifted. In any case, we are more concerned about a culture that is inspiring so many of your measures. I am referring not only to a repressive and punitive tendency, but also to a legalist and forcaiola culture, which in the name of a court of the people and of justice ends up bending individual rights, guarantees, freedom, thus risking undermining the fundamental principles of a rule of law. The PD wants to keep the issue of violence against women out of the issue and legitimate political battle. We want to build common ground on this. We want to do this from the next budgetary session. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u57	I'll end it, but you have to finish, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u58	VALENT (PD). That is why I really fear that, looking only at the final phenomenon, the one on which we intervene with repression when the damage is already done, we will make a serious mistake; it is not enough to solve a problem, which is social even before criminal, and it will not suffice to increase the penalties or invent an application to put your heart in peace. A safer country for women and men will be a country where freedom, rights, autonomy and self-determination will be protected as their own life choices by a state not oppressor but regulator and guarantor of these spaces of freedom. I believe that women's rights and freedoms measure the degree of civilization and progress in a country. Our task is then to stop any attempt to go back. We are ready to do our part and ask everyone to do it with us. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Conzatti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u61	RUFA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I remember when I began by saying that every day in this House is the day, and today is the important day to assert and formalise with determination that women must only respect each other. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] In 1999 the UN General Assembly established on 25 November as an International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women; it did so in honor of the three Mirabal sisters. As a man, as an Italian and as a Ciociano, when I imagine tying the pain of a woman on a date, I cannot help but think of 1944, when, following the breakup of the Gustav line, Moroccan soldiers goumier, incorporated into the French army, were ignobly repaid by General Juin with a grim gift: fifty hours of absolute freedom [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Groups]] , thus freeing up a real right of prey, that is the right to be able to abuse freely and at the will of all women, of all ages, as if they were toys of rash (the Moroccans). They are given far away, but the wounds must always remain open and indelible, out of respect, to understand, not to justify and not to forget. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] To this day, the cursed concept of subjection, of submission to be imposed on women, is still a subjection born of an ignorant, evil and despising culture. Disgrace of the will and freedom of girls forced to marry at the age of puberty; contempt and religious and cultural ignorance, which imposes genital mutilation and marriages that must necessarily be celebrated among fellow countrymen. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Disrespect for the value of pregnancy, no longer a justified act desired and consciously desired, even at all costs, but calculated and bought, using the economic poverty of those who sell or have to sell their uterus; contempt that vents into the vulgar, distorted, sick and selfish satisfaction of child pornography [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Disgrace, selfish and proud, which leads to physical violence, which too often and too easily leads to indelible wounds, such as that of acid, or to a death that then lets loved ones and family members die [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Disgrace that wants to justify offense and psychological violence and often the means of such contempt is the mobile phone, which turns into a silent gun, whose deadly bullets and even mortal are the words, the offenses, the threats. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In 2017 there were 1,827 cases of stalking and this data (lack considering the resistances, the fear, the shame and the lying hope of the "not true") commits the Government to attention, correction, control of an attitude of the culture of the "if you are not mine" you will not be of any other "." It is a sick attitude that in 2017 caused at least 2,018 final sentences of sexual violence and killed one woman every two days. 85% of the victims are family and lovers. Yes, death has the keys to many, too many women. It is regrettable to note in recent years - and I do not want to be accused of racism or misunderstood in this sense - also the contempt of the white woman. Unfortunately it is a truth that commits the government to no longer wanting to host beasts that kill without pity and fear [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , accustomed to rituals and cultures of a world that does not belong to us. I have a white woman to rape.This is the phrase of those who have beaten, despised, stabbed the body of a little girl of just sixteen years old and who then skinned her, broken her, juggled her with a typical technique of religious or cultural traditions behind her, the slaughter. Ours will therefore be a government that will not accept these beasts and that will never want to give a prize, a justification or a reduction of the penalty. We teach and commit to respect for women. Love and respect the woman, do not seek, in her, only a comfort but a strength, an inspiration, a doubling of your intellectual and moral faculties. Delete from your mind any idea of superiority, you have none. These are the words of Giuseppe Mazzini. The woman is not an instrument of pleasure, a game, a vice, a burden. The woman is the beginning of the future. The woman is all of you, senators who honor this House. The woman is Liliana Segre. The woman is Silvia, our volunteer kidnapped in Kenya; the women are Michelle and Giulia of the Double Defense Foundation; women are our mothers and daughters. We of the League, with all of you, aware of the difficulties, are obliged to defend until death the moral, cultural, psychological and physical respect of all women. That is why I call for sincere cooperation to ensure the provisions of the Istanbul Convention: to prevent violence, to protect and to support victims, to prosecute wrongdoers, to combat violence. We will not underestimate the desire to trigger a real and strong change, to educate citizens, to continue with the promotion of adequate information campaigns, to re-educate abusive men, to update the maps of anti-violence centers and to help women understand that the only friend is not enough to save them. It may be a momentary outburst, but we must entrust ourselves to the Forces of Order, which in recent years are opening the necessary and important doors for the defense of women. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Yesterday, on 28 November, we demonstrated our commitment to respect for women with the approval of the Red Code Council of Ministers. We, dear PD, have not only written it and left it in the meanders of the jobs act: we have acted, for example with the electronic bracelet in the security decree [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] So let's not make a competition; let's avoid it, also because you would lose. We honor the commitment and work rather, as we did last week, when our League Leader organized a conference where undersecretary Borgonzoni, Minister Bongiorno and President Alberti Casellati intervened and in that forum we shared a single purpose. The League will therefore vote in favour of the motions of our interest today. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u64	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, Government, colleagues and colleagues, first of all I would like to thank my colleagues and colleagues from all sides for their sensitivity on this issue, and in particular - let me say this without jokes - my colleagues from the PD for the immediate sharing of a path which, despite the mutual differences in approach, has seen us working together effectively. Mr President, the government, ladies and gentlemen, respect for human dignity and for the individual is the primary good of every democracy and every political action. Every measure to guarantee and protect it must be supported by all through culture, education, law and solidarity. Respect for the dignity of women, however, goes even further; it represents the highest degree of civilization and the strength of a people who want to be truly and definitively civilized. The violence against women, on the other hand, even in the most advanced countries, including ours, still insists despite the putting in place of every possible legislative initiative and, indeed, increases. Violence against women is the most democratic and cosmopolitan phenomenon. We cannot, therefore, restrict ourselves. It is a sneaky, crawling phenomenon, which is all too often understood only when it is brought to the extreme consequences. Violence on women has a thousand faces: stalking, mobbing, abuse, beatings, harassment, sexual exploitation, reduction in slavery, discrimination, coercion, impairment, pay differences, violation of rights and feminicide. Here, feminicide is a neologism that always manages to cause debate. Allow me to make a point before I enter the substance and heart of the matter. Personally, I am opposed to any form of feminization of roles because, in my opinion, functions have no gender. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Bottici]] The President of the Senate remains the President, whether man or woman, as the mayor or minister remains the mayor or minister, whether men or women. Instead, I react when I hear people bickering about the term "feminicide" by people who can't see the difference from murder in the broad sense. In this case, the difference is indeed and is manifested at the moment when extreme violence against a woman is carried out by man towards a woman as a woman, as a female, in the most negative and wrong sense of object of possession. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Let us return to violence: to violence of every kind, physical and moral, that has always taken place outside and - as has been said alas several times - too often within the home walls and for the most disparate reasons (cultural, religious and ignorance) where there is still the conception of woman perceived as weak sex, in the sense that physical weakness, greater and different sensitivity are considered the limits that in greedy and ignorant minds make lawful actions against them contemptible. And the "where" is unfortunately not only on the other side of the world, but also here and now, in our civilized Europe, in our civilized Italy, from North to South without differences. Why are we still here today to urge the government with our motions? Why are we still here today to manifest, to bear witness and to raise awareness in every way? We are still here because despite all the efforts, all the laws and all the manifestations, the numbers spread by the statistics are impressive: only in Italy every two and a half days a woman is killed. And the first months of 2018 saw a surge in the phenomenon, an increase of 30 percent compared to 2017, with 35 women killed since the beginning of the year: 35! It's a chilling number. All too often other victims are added to the victims: children who are orphaned or who are killed in turn and, in turn, marked forever by the violence they have witnessed and will probably become in turn abusive men or frightened women. We have said this and repeated it here today in this House, as we have said and repeated all of us who play a political role during all the demonstrations we have participated in: enough, enough, enough! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Violence against women is finally seen as a violation of fundamental human rights. Indeed, the World Health Organisation (WHO) considers it the most shameful and pervasive. So much so that it is considered a social scourge, the first cause of death of women between sixteen and forty-four years old. It sounds incredible, but it is. That's why we're still here today to talk about it. To get away from talking about it. In Italy, numerous instruments of civilization and women's protection have been introduced over time, starting with the reform of family law in 1975 - I was already ten years old - when at last the woman stopped moving from the protection of her country's power to that of her husband's homeland, passing through the abolition of the so-called crime of honor, which took place only in 1981, to the crime of sexual violence, defined only since 1996 as a crime against the person and not a crime against morals, to finally reach the law of 2009 against stalking or that of 2006 prohibiting the practices of female genital mutilation. There are, however, crimes that still need to be codified in our system: new cases of subtle, creeping and very dangerous crimes: for example severe penalties for anyone who publishes or disseminates through computer, computer or digital tools sexually explicit private images and videos without the consent of the persons represented. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Further legislative measures must be added to the actions aimed at the cultural revolution, because the seriousness of this phenomenon can only be responded to by means of detailed measures. We need to push for an organized prevention system, to implement effective precautionary instruments and to ensure the red code on violence, which was approved yesterday by the Council of Ministers, which provides for a preferential lane for complaints, faster investigations into cases of violence against women and the obligation for PMs to listen to victims within three days and police training courses. The initiative is more than commendable and it is the synthesis of what has always been demanded in a cross-cutting way, but I remember that if the stated does not follow a precise and immediate economic commitment within the budget law, the statement risks remaining only a proclamation. The cultural revolution must result in a collective awareness of society, which must then move, as we are trying to do, into a common battle between men and women against this serious reality. Revolutions cost; they are not costs, but investments; and then change the term: the Government must invest, invest and invest, because the investment will produce a return. Investing in school and education as a better guarantee because school is a privileged observatory. Investing in law enforcement. Subsidiarity can be one of the key words: subsidiarity between the state, local authorities, educational agencies, associations, volunteering and sport. It is also necessary to bring out the flood because, according to ISTAT, 95% of the victims do not report the violence suffered. It's time to move on. As I read in one of the many messages that have been filmed on social media these days, and here please pay attention: We live in a society that teaches women to defend themselves against rape instead of teaching men not to rape women. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and the Senators Bottici, Cirinna and Fedeli]] And in this, as they have remembered more colleagues, the mothers of male children are us women and it is therefore our first duty. That is why the request for a motion with regard to the need for an obligation for abusive men to follow a rehabilitation course at specialised centres. A separate and specific intervention (we will then do so and I hope that we will resume this point) would then deserve the horrible issue of the abuse of women with disabilities. 36% of women with disabilities are victims of violence, twice as many as other women. It's chilling! And the horror increases if one thinks that, in most cases, those who commit violence on them are precisely who should take care of them. I get goose bumps. The introduction of surveillance cameras in institutions will prove crucial and I thank our colleague, Gabriella Giammanco, for this initiative. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Pizzol]] We must take inspiration from the territorial realities and also from the local authorities that are very often ahead. I am thinking of my administrative path that has seen me, since 1996, member of the Council of Women of the Municipality of Bergamo, become a real statutory body that accompanies the work of the Junta and the City Council. Let me thank my party, Forza Italia, within which we find really valued the role of woman, like that of man, in covering apical roles of great responsibility and leadership. And I'm proud of it! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We are women and men who have the power to change things. We are politics. We are the example. Change can actually pass from us. I close, with emotion and as a spur, reading Article 3 of our Constitution: "All citizens have equal social dignity and are equal before the law, without distinction of sex, race, language, religion, political opinions, personal and social conditions. It is the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles of an economic and social order, which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the human person..................................................................................................................... We are senators of the Republic, champions of the Constitution: let's always prove it. In view of the considerations expressed, I therefore declare that the Group of Forza Italia will vote in favour of its motion and of the motions - or part of the motions - of the other Groups, in the name of a shared war, which must see us all all allies and which must be won standing side by side, even in memory of all women who have fallen on the field. I would ask the Presidency for permission to attach the full text of my speech to the shorthand report. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u65	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u68	DE LUCIA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, how often the justification for an act of violence committed within, and more rarely outside, the home walls is: I do it because I love you too much. A phrase that may appear trivial but that, in reality, most of the time hides painful background. Those who, in these days in particular, have heard revealed in the stories of the many women who, unfortunately, go to enrich the statistics on harassment, stalking, violence and - more serious fact - feminicide. Last Sunday, the day dedicated to this terrible phenomenon was celebrated all over the world, as you have already all remembered. Well, it is not enough to lighten your conscience with just one celebratory moment. Precisely because together with terrible stories we have heard so many opinions, sometimes spoiled by the lack of knowledge of the problem, phrases made and banality, I think it is necessary to reiterate in this House too the need to address an issue which has become an emergency and to do so with due attention as has been done in our motion. The story of the three Mirabal sisters, repeated several times in this House this morning, actually reminds us of an episode of female courage, not only of the death of women, but an act of courage in which they defended the freedom and democracy of their country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So let's kick him out, too, all this courage. We learn to be wary of signs that become ever clearer and annoying. Let us quickly decide to ask for help; let us make our voice heard; let us put our trust in the Forces of Order. Last Saturday I met some policemen who told me about their experience, even difficult, from woman to woman, in front of the phenomena of stalking and feminicide to which they worked. Well, only the day before had a young woman approached them who reported that she suspected that a friend was the subject of violence by her husband (always in the family). One phone call was enough and the victim thanked them. She said she was happy with this hand that was finally being stretched out. We therefore also appeal to that female solidarity which is too often lacking and which can instead be the first step towards that autonomy of thought that can push the victim to ask for help. I think it is unnecessary here to report accounts, numbers and data. In these days each of us will have had the chance to read a lot of them: cold percentages that little tell if not through the + sign, constant. Each of us, either by direct knowledge or by episodes that have occurred in our own community, is well aware of what deep signs these crimes leave, especially those of crime. After all, even for a moment, we're all guilty. And then it is there that we must act and ask that men no longer be those who are watching our demonstrations but that they be protagonists of a defense that has the need to cross the limits imposed by a society that we no longer recognize. They must no longer belittle the alarms launched by women. I was stalking for three long years by a stranger. I'm just reminding you, I can assure you, I'm turbocharged. I felt like I was asking for the most paradoxical things that made me go from victim to inquisition, but isn't that absurd? Would such an attitude not limit anyone to denouncing, asserting their rights, asking for reason to be defended and helped? Only my insistence opened the investigation. Well, I've been lucky but I don't dare think about those women who don't have my powers of persuasion. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups and Senator Bernini.]] Now, however, be clear: things are changing. Our government is putting in place a series of concrete interventions starting with funding, which has been talked about a lot and which many say are missing but at last there are, and the creation of a special fund, fair and lasting, for victims of violence, to arrive until yesterday when the government approved the bill on the red code of which I would like briefly to recall four points: the obligation for the judicial police to communicate immediately the news of crime, the fact that within three days the victim of violence must be heard by the prosecutors, the absolute priority given to investigations on violence and the compulsory training for the operators of the Forces of the Order. Obligatory! [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] All this in perfect line with our motion, which is based on 14 points of which I am pleased to highlight, in particular, the value of the last one in which the Government is asked for commitment to protect women, all women, in the exercise of the rights and freedoms recognised by our Constitution and to ensure that the effective sharing of the values enshrined in it is a fundamental requirement for a real process of integration. Well, the reference to the deep sense of fairness of our Constitutional Charter makes our motion even more appreciated. Of course, these are the first steps and a lot of work will have to be done on the culture, respect and true meaning of the word "love" but our motion is a good starting point. I therefore declare the 5 Star Movimento Group's vote in favour of our motion. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u71	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, pursuant to Rule 102 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to ask, as a result of the fact that Parliament has legitimately chosen not to merge into a single text but to maintain its original positions, to vote separately on the premises and the arrangements. It is obvious that the Rules of Procedure provide for this request to be made for each vote; if the Groups agree I would be in order to make this request once, agreeing that it applies to all seven votes. I am, of course, going back to the Presidency on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u72	If no comments are made, I believe that this request is valid for the vote on all motions. A separate vote will then be taken on the premises and arrangements.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u75	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Our Group does not agree with this decision. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do you therefore ask that the request for a split vote be made for each individual motion? ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). That's right. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Are we, however, in agreement with the split vote or are we voting on it? You must tell me if there is no opposition. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). We are opposed to the split vote on all motions.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u76	In this case, I have to put Senator Ferrari's request to the vote. Forgive me, but I understood that you were against the proposal to apply this request for all motions. I put to the vote the motion for a separate vote, tabled by Senator Ferrari, on motion No 49. It's approved. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises of motion No 49, tabled by Senator Rauti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 49 tabled by Senator Rauti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S, FI-BP, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups.]] I put to the vote the motion for a separate vote, tabled by Senator Ferrari, on motion No 51 (text 2). It's approved. CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). We already have! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let me point out to you, Senator Casini, that a request has been made by Senator Romeo to proceed with the verification for every motion and I will do so. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises of motion 51 (text 2), tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 51 (text 2), tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I put to the vote the motion for a separate vote, tabled by Senator Ferrari, on motion 53. It's approved. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises of motion 53 tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the motion No 53 tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I put to the vote the motion for a separate vote, tabled by Senator Ferrari, on motion No 54 (text 3). It's approved. I would point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises of motion 54 (text 3), tabled by Senator Maiorino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 54 (text 3), tabled by Senator Maiorino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S, FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I put to the vote the motion for a separate vote, tabled by Senator Ferrari, on motion No 55. It's approved. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises of motion No 55, tabled by Senator Pucciarelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 55, tabled by Senator Pucciarelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S, FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I put to the vote the motion for a separate vote, tabled by Senator Ferrari, on motion No 56. It's approved. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises of motion 56 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 56 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I put to the vote the motion for a separate vote, tabled by Senator Ferrari, on motion No 58. It's approved. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises of motion 58 tabled by Senator Unterberger and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 58 tabled by Senator Unterberger and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). That concludes the debate on the motions on the agenda. We've approved some beautiful motions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u77	The next item is the debate on draft law No 871 The rapporteur, Senator Lomuti, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u78	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under consideration provides for the delegation to the Government for the adoption of supplementary and corrective provisions of the legislative decrees adopted in implementation of the delegation for the reform of the disciplines of the business crisis and insolvency, as set out in Law No 155 of 19 October 2017. The need arises from the fact that the delegation, referred to in Law No 155 of 19 October 2017, did not foresee the adoption of the corrective decrees, the enactment of which, in the context of a comprehensive reform of the rules of insolvency and the business crisis, destined to have a very significant impact on the entire business system and on the work of the judicial offices concerned, is imposed as absolutely necessary. For the exercise of the delegation, to be carried out in compliance with the principles and guiding criteria already laid down in the aforementioned Law No 155 of 2017, it is expected to fix a period of two years, starting from the expiry of the deadline set for the acquisition of effectiveness of the provisions of the legislative decrees issued in the exercise of the main delegation. The identification of such a dies a quo for the exercise of the corrective delegation derives from the desirability that, in the legislative decrees issued in implementation of the main delegation, a wide period of vacacatio, similar to that established during the structural and system reforms, such as the one on insolvency and the business crisis, should be envisaged. The legislative proposal is divided into two provisions, the first of which contains the delegation to the Government, while the second contains financial provisions. In order to transpose the opinion of the Budget Commission, an amendment was subsequently adopted which established that, from the implementation of the provisions referred to in Article 1 of this Act, no new or greater burden on public finances should arise. That being said, I would like the measure to be approved as soon as possible. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u79	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Ferrari is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u80	Mr President, I speak very quickly to leave the position of my Group to the record, which will also be referred to in the brief explanation of vote which Senator Cucca will then take. In relation to the delegation contained in the draft law, there are two types of doubts for the Democratic Party. The first concerns the very nature of the measure. The wording leaves uncertainty as to the qualification between an extension of the previous deadlines and a new delegation to all intents and purposes. In both cases, Parliament would still be a spectator, since the text makes it possible to adopt supplementary and corrective provisions in accordance with the principles and guiding criteria laid down, however, by the previous law. The second constraint concerns the excessive size of the period of vacay: for the exercise of the delegation is set, in fact, a period of two years, which starts however from the expiry of the deadline set for the acquisition of effectiveness of the provisions of the legislative decrees issued in the exercise of the main delegation. This is clearly too long a time limit, as already emerged in the work in the Commission, where the amendment Caliendo was rejected, which cuts the deadline by half, with a non-obstacle opinion - I am referring to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs - on the assumption, however, that the draft law is finally adopted after the adoption of at least one of the legislative decrees implementing the delegation provided for in Law No 155 of 2017. In essence, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stresses that, at present, a certain time limit for the exercise of the delegation for the adoption of the supplementary corrective decrees is not guaranteed. In our view, there is a clear excess of delegation and the measure does not respect the framework laid down in the Constitution and the case law. In essence, we will say no to the measure under consideration, also because of an attitude of this Government, which seems to be eating too often of unconstitutionalism and we hope that it will cause indigestion. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u81	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendment, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u82	Mr President, I am against Amendment 1.1. As far as the agenda is concerned, Mr G1.1, since I did not find any relevance to the scope of the draft law, nor did I find any link to it, I would ask the authors to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u83	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u84	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Caliendo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As an invitation has been made to withdraw, I would ask the first signatory to the agenda, Senator Toffanin, if she insists on the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u85	Yes, Mr President, I insist on the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u86	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.1, tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u89	STANCANELLI (FdI). Mr President, I am speaking briefly to announce the abstention of the Brothers of Italy Group on the draft law under consideration, also in the light of the rejection of amendment 1.1, signed by Senator Caliendo. Granting a further delegation to the Government, for the enactment of corrective legislative decrees, lasting two years seems to us a little 'too much, considering that the forensic circles - and not only - and all those who are interested in such legislative decree have already waited a lot, since the law is of 2017. With this speech I would also like to urge the Government to respect what has already emerged in the Senate Justice Commission and I think it is also emerging in the Chamber of Deputies, with a legislative decree consisting of 390 articles, which intervenes in an organic way on the code of the crisis of enterprise and insolvency, which the Italian society needs, as it modernizes the system of criticality of the enterprises. I quote one for all: there is no more talk of bankruptcy, but of a judicial settlement in which we accompany those in crisis, through the Institute of Alert, in order to make sure that it can get out, at a time difficult for the economy, among other things. The invitation that I address to the Government, then, is the following: in the elaboration of the legislative decree that must be issued from here to thirty-forty days at most, attention should be paid to the critical issues emerged, in relation to both the institute of the alert, both to the agreed, and to the professional subjects that can intervene, and to the overindebtedness, that must be considered in a specific way. The auditions we had gave us great comfort. I hope that, in expressing its opinion, the Senate Justice Commission will take account of these needs and that the Government will then, in issuing the definitive decree-law, pay attention to these critical issues. Our will be a vote of abstention, with the wish that the two years serve only for the eventual criticalities that can be verified when the decree-law will be applied. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u92	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, I shall try to be even shorter than my previous colleague. I believe that in the examination of the measure it is necessary to bring the events back to the correct limits. Last year, on October 19, 2017, we passed a delegation law for the reform of corporate crisis and insolvency discipline, which came into force on November 14th. In practice, the law provided that the Government, through the implementing decrees, would formulate a substance of the code of bankruptcy that would put order in the varied matter that to date has governed the crisis of enterprise. In essence, it was an organic complex, which contained all the competitive procedures that today are regulated by a congery of rules that obviously generate confusion. The aim was also to bring Italian competition law into line with European directives, which required the adoption of composition procedures in business crises based essentially on the criterion of the prevention of business continuity. This was adhered to when the delegation law was passed in the last parliamentary term. Today Parliament is being examined by a text which is essentially a single article, in addition to the clause of financial invariance, in which the whole matter is actually reopened. Why do I say that? The implementing decrees had not been issued: as I said, the delegation expired on 17 November 2018 and, in fact, until then, no implementing decree had been issued; only, in a very temporary, rapid and I would say almost rocambolesca manner, an implementing decree was issued - the Act of Government n. 53, which is extremely complex - just on the day of the expiry of the delegation, as my colleague Stancanelli said very well. It must be pointed out that for the implementing decree the branches of Parliament are called upon to give their opinion and, therefore, to make all the necessary comments, which must certainly be done in a critical way on certain aspects. I do not understand, however, why we have to extend the timetable by two years, giving the government a further delegation for the issuing of a further legislative decree. It seems to me that this is, basically, once again an expression of that almost maniacal drive to destroy, to delete substantially all that had been done in the last legislature, even what was objectively good had been accomplished, allowing the government, even with a term of two years, to issue further implementing decrees, which should in essence cancel what had been done previously. It is not an extension, because if it had been so, we would simply have said that the deadlines set are being extended by a certain amount of time. No: here we give a delegation that is much larger and that in fact will allow the Government to wipe everything out and rewrite everything. Obviously our vote on this provision can only be against, because we still have in question the draft legislative decree (Act of the Government no. 53). I believe that, on the basis of that measure, we could have made all the necessary changes, without the need to give a completely blank delegation to the Government, so that it could sweep everything and start over. It seems to me that the request, which has also come out of the hearings, is instead to speed up finally to regulate in an organic way the subject of the business crisis. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u95	MODENA (FI-BP). Mr President, our Group will abstain on this measure, because we read it as a sort of blank delegation on an extremely sensitive matter, which is practically the heart of the problems that the country has today. When it is said that they want to protect the poor, the poor must find a solution in this scheme of decree, because the poor are the ones who have had the house foreclosed following a bad trust; the opinions are all those who have suffered the consequences of a crisis that has lasted for ten years. It is the professionals, who are also interested in this type of problem; it is the companies, who have blown up and are unable to have solutions on the basis of the legislation. This provision is the heart of all this. The government had made choices. The majority, when they wanted to make a jump with reference - for example - to the delegation on the penitentiary order, made extensions for others, but acted by giving a timing, lines and guiding criteria, so that we more or less could understand. There is nothing here about a sector that is very delicate. The colleague who spoke earlier told you that it is more than 300 articles; it is an imposing scheme of decree and must be examined well, which is impossible, because we all know that the priority of anti-corruption puts this measure in the background. The measure, then, will not be well examined and we have a blank delegation; we ask the Groups, also and above all those of majority, to examine this problem carefully, because - as I said - it is fundamental to determine the way in which the political forces want to resolve what has happened in terms of crisis and poverty over the last ten years. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u98	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, I am only speaking to respond very briefly to the two issues that have emerged, namely the question of possible delegation in white and the question of the excessive time frame that is being given. As far as the second point is concerned, it is a maximum time and I am sure that the Government will have the possibility and the ability not to use all the two years of time foreseen as a deadline for the adoption of the supplementary and corrective provisions. We are talking, in fact, exclusively about the possibility that Parliament and the Government must have to make possible adjustments to a delegation. But the device - and I quote myself - carries in compliance with the guiding principles and criteria laid down by Law No 155 of 2017, i.e. by the law of delegation. There is, therefore, no will to have a blank proxy. It is simply the possibility of corrective action, even in the implementation of the rule, which Parliament and the Government must have on such an important matter as the business crisis we are facing. That is the will of the act we are examining. That is why we shall be voting in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u99	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole in the amended text as a result of the amendments introduced by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The sitting is suspended to allow the Presidency Council to meet and will resume at 1.30 p.m. for the conduct of the inspection union. (The sitting was suspended at 1.13 p.m. and resumed at 2.14 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u100	The next item is the holding of questions. The first questions will be questions 3-00338, 3-00364 and 3-00423 on the transfer of the terminus of extra-urban buses to Rome Anagnina. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I respond in conjunction with the questions tabled by Senators Pagano and Moles, 3-00364, tabled by Senator Verducci and other Senators, and 3-00423, tabled by Senator Marsilio, as they deal with the same subject. As a general rule, it should be noted that the Directorate-General for Road Transport and Intermodality of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport authorizes the operation of scheduled services of state competence for the carriage of passengers by coach and bus crossing more than three regions, international Community services and international services with countries outside the European Union. The areas of stop for the aforementioned services are identified exclusively by the road owner, in the case Rome capital. In order to be able to be used, the same institution must provide for the request of security clearance, which is issued by the competent civil motorization office, only to the outcome of the operations of preparation of the area. Currently in Rome there are only two stop areas for buses of state competence, the Tiburtina bus station and the stop of Anagnina. However, almost all line services use the first, as semi-central, equipped with better modal connection (train and subway) and constantly guarded. All this said, on the matter in question the Ministry of Infrastructures and Transports has expressed, as in repeated correspondence with the Municipality of Rome, all own perplexities in relation to the displacement of the bus station from Tiburtina (as said semicentral and equipped with good modal connections) to Anagnina, far from the center and without connection with the railway transport. These concerns arise, therefore, from the decentralized location of the new bus station, from less modal integration, from problems of safety for travellers, especially at night and at night, as well as from the dubious adequacy of services and spaces with respect to the flow of vehicles and persons. The Ministry, however, while being aware of the hypothesis of displacement and while considering it strongly penalising, has no possibility of intervention, considering that, as stated, the localization of the area of stop is of exclusive competence of the agency owner of the road. However, it will continue to listen to the remarkable reports from industry associations, users and companies, in the hope of finding a suitable solution and shared with Rome capital.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u104	PAGE (FI-BP). Mr President, for the truth I am dissatisfied with the Government's response, even if the Government admits that the displacement of the bus terminal of the bus lines coming from three Regions (in particular from Abruzzo and the Marche) is penalising for all the users and for the many travelers who are forced to go by bus to Rome, recognizing that this move from Tiburtina to Anagnina would cause a huge damage, also connected to the problem of intermodality since when you arrive to Tiburtina there is the possibility to take the train and not only the urban means or the metro. It is clear that this is a Pilates response: it is said, basically, that the competence is not of the Ministry, but of Rome Capital. If Rome's capital decides to damage hundreds of thousands of commuters from Italian regions, who are already subjected to a particularly penal treatment (that of going for work from its own Region to the Capital of Italy), this response appears to wash their hands and, all in all, it seems that there is not even an effort to try at least to create the conditions for a consultation table, which prevents Rome's capital from doing something that hurts so many Italian citizens, who are forced to go by bus here to Rome, in the Capital of Italy. I add, because it is right to explain it here, that unfortunately residents in Abruzzo and Marche - obviously, being Abruzzo, I speak first for the Abruzzo people - have no alternative to going to Rome. The only possibilities - if you make it say by those who come here in the Senate - are to go to this city by bus or private car; with the train we cannot arrive, because unfortunately, from Abruzzo to Rome, we still have railway lines from the Middle Ages. The journeys are therefore necessarily by bus, which runs along the Autostrada dei Parchi, of which so much has been mentioned lately. Having the need to get to Rome as soon as possible, this can only be done by bus and bus. This is the reason why we believe that it is absolutely necessary for the Government to commit itself to prevent such a penal treatment against the residents of the Abruzzo Region, but also those of the Marche Region, in view above all of the fact that public transport in Rome - and we know perfectly well - works very badly. Arriving in Rome in about two and a half hours and having to take another hour to go to the workplace is really exaggeratedly penalising. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u107	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Gaetti for being here, although I have to say that it is quite uncomfortable that there is no one here from the Ministry of Transport, which is the Ministry responsible for this question, which is very important and affects hundreds of thousands of people. It concerns the decision of the Giunta Raggi of the Municipality of Rome to move from the headquarters of Tiburtina a bus station that is not only interregional, but, as you know, also national and international. Let us consider this shift a truly wretched choice: it will be a disaster that will impact on the daily and concrete lives of thousands of people. Good administration means taking care; this, on the other hand, is a slap in the face. You know, Undersecretary, that there are 8 million people every year who benefit from that international hub, every day more than 18,000. It is no coincidence that for more than twenty years that station has been located there, because nearby there is a high-speed train station, there is a train station leading to Fiumicino airport; nearby there are also important services of the city of Rome, such as hospitals, and nearby passes the highway. There is, therefore, a strategic sense and moving the station means wanting to contradict it. There is a strategic sense that for decades has led the citizens of Abruzzo, Marche, Molise and Basilicata to use that station. They are commuters, Mr. Undersecretary, of people who need health care, who leave our regions to arrive in Rome and return home in the evening. They are very often off-site students. In fact, around the district of Tiburtina there are the homes of most of the 80,000 students outside the headquarters of the Roman universities. They use those buses, because it is a real public service, those who cannot afford to use private vehicles, cars or trains, so the weakest people. The Tiburtina, together with Salaria, have for centuries been the gateways to Rome for those Regions, mainly Marche and Abruzzo, which today need most because they are, among other things, those hit very hard by the earthquake of 2016. The choice of Anagnina, Mr President, is out of all logic, precisely because there is no connection and it is redirected to the terrible funnel of the great ring link the great mass of people who need to be in Rome. Is it possible the mayor Rays doesn't know these things? It seems impossible that one does not want to make a strategic choice for Rome, in one of its most difficult moments. In fact, this of the Raggi administration is one of the most difficult moments in the city, marked by immobility and degradation. It is an increasingly torn city between the outskirts and the center; this choice will contribute to a further tear. Instead, ideas and projects are needed. If there is a concession problem, you solve it, you use money not for Anagnina, but to requalify Tiburtina, which is really a strategic choice. Undersecretary and Government, be on the side of the Italians and the Romans, not on the side of the mayor Rays, and stop this mess. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u110	Marsilio (FdI). Mr President, mayor Raggi's choice is yet another stupid decision affecting the city of Rome and Italy as a whole. We bring it to the attention of Parliament, because precisely it is not a city affair, which concerns the legitimate choices of the municipal council, but it invests a large part of central Italy: Abruzzo, the Marches, Molise, the whole Roman province, in particular the East that runs along the Tiburtino boards, nomentano, casolino, that end precisely towards the Tiburtina station, where the commuters arrive who wake up at four or five o'clock in the morning to be punctual in Rome in their offices or university classrooms. In fact, near the Tiburtina station there is the largest university in Europe, with tens of thousands of students out of office commuting in the morning to get there and that, with the decision to be moved to Anagnina, they would see their quality of life worse, because it would take at least another thirty or forty minutes of travel only to take the subway and reach the far outskirts, where today is located the Anagnina station, to then reach the Termini station and maybe make a change to return to the stops of Tiburtina or the Polyclinic, which lead to the university or the historical center, where you find Ministries, offices etc. We only talk about the extra time that would be needed on public transport and I don't want to add what happens every morning, especially in the rush hour and in the afternoon at the exit time of the offices, on the ring road that goes from the junction with the motorway Rome-L'Aquila and the one with the via Tuscolana that leads to Anagnina, which I also filmed with a video. It is a continuous mileage tail, especially in that direction, which would be further flooded by hundreds of buses that would travel the same route every day, which is still at least 3 kilometers long. Moreover, if we multiply these 3 kilometers of the journey with those of the return for hundreds of buses a day throughout the year, we reach millions of kilometers/car, of discharges, of pollution, of lost time, of worsening of the quality of life for the Romans, for the Lazio, for the Abruzzo, for the Marches, for those who have to use that station. After speaking badly about the responsibilities of the mayor Rays, however, I would like to say here to the government that you cannot wash your hands, saying that you wrote to the mayor and told her that you are wrong. You certainly did well to do so and we hope that your action to make her understand that she has to go back can lead to a result. However, the Ministry has specific competences because, in order to authorize these lines there are criteria concerning accessibility, safety and services that passengers receive and when it understands that these criteria are not guaranteed, the Ministry must intervene in a peremptory manner towards the municipal administration and prevent a stupid and wrong choice of an administration that does not know how to govern its own city and that is not up to the task of administering the capital of the Republic, assuming also the responsibility of being Capital with respect to issues that concern not only its own citizens but the entire nation. From this point of view, the Ministry must guarantee these rights to fully exercise its prerogatives. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u111	Following is the question 3-00325 on the condition of the precarious researchers of the CRO of Aviano, in the province of Pordenone. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u112	Mr President, on the issue of professional stabilisation with permanent contracts for precarious staff working in the field of health research and the initiatives that the Government intends to take in order to respond adequately to the needs of precarious researchers, the following is stated. As a preliminary point, it should be noted that, upstream of the issue under consideration, there is a substantial difference of intent between the legitimate expectations of research staff at the public law (IRCCS) and those in service at the experimental zooprofilattic institutes (IZS), and the very ratio of the regulatory discipline, referred to in Article 1, paragraphs 422 to 434, of Law No 205 of 27 December 2017, so-called pyramid of researchers. In fact, against the request of a fixed-place stabilisation, a process linked to productivity is not followed, but a path that provides for the issuing of special calls for competition for the personnel of the search holder of fixed-term contract, in compliance with the requirements of Article 20 of Legislative Decree No. 75 of 2017. The difference in the system derives from the different way of financing the research lines, which in some cases is implemented through the provision of fixed and predetermined amounts, while, in the case of current and final research, it varies from year to year, depending on the objectives set and actually achieved by the different realities of the institutions of hospitalization and care of a scientific nature (IRCCS). More specifically, with regard to the current discipline and the initiatives put in place for its timely and complete implementation, as well as to the functioning and objectives of the so-called pyramid of researchers, as referred to in Article 1, paragraphs 422 - 434, of the Law of 27 December 2017, n. 205, it is evident that the legislation in question regulates a five-year career development path, renewable for a further five years, with the possibility, once the second period of the fixed-term subordinate employment contract has been successfully completed, of permanent placement in the roles of the national health service. This path is accessed through the competition procedures outlined by the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, provided for in paragraph 425 of the aforementioned Article 1. The legislation introduced by law n. 205 of 2017 aims to intervene in an organic way on the staff of health research, with a view to safeguarding the continuity of the researcher's career and respecting the flexibility typical in the context of research and the principle of competitiveness, in full harmony with the highly competitive system in which health research institutions act. With regard to researchers already in service, Law No 205 of 2017 provides in article 1, paragraph 432, a specific discipline that provides access to the aforementioned path for personnel in possession of the requirements provided for by the legislation and, therefore, in service at IRCCS and experimental zooprofilattic institutes (IZS) on 31 December 2017, with flexible working relationships established following selective procedure and with a service seniority of at least three years in the last five years. In order to give professional recognition to the status of researchers, the role of health research and its support activities in public IRCCS and the IZS was established, including the placing in service of its staff with fixed-term employment contracts. As regards the procedure for issuing the implementing decrees of the legislation in question, it should be noted that a draft decree of the President of the Council of Ministers for competition law has been drawn up and two working groups have been set up, one for researchers and one for support staff, with a view to defining the criteria for annual evaluation and suitability for possible renewal at the end of the first five years of service. These groups outlined the first assumptions for the definition of the above assessment criteria. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You must conclude, Mr. Undersecretary. BARTOLAZZI, State Secretary for Health. However, it should be stressed that, for the full definition of the above measures, it is necessary to conclude the national collective agreement of employment (CCNL), with the appropriate section of the research, as provided for in paragraph 423, since, as reiterated in the related act of direction approved by the Committee of the field of health sector on 20 June 2018, the contract will have to define the declarations of professional profiles called "researchers" and "research personnel."
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u115	STABLE (FI-BP). Mr President, the answer leaves me completely dissatisfied. The first question I asked was that most of these researchers are due to expire on 31 December 2018. At present, many of these, after even 20 years of work, are at risk of having to stop working with IRCCS and institutions are currently basically managing themselves. There are those who risk interrupting the employment relationship, leaving these people out of work and there are those who, on the other hand, have decided to reopen other competitions in order to safeguard a valuable heritage for the institution and for the entire public health. I would like to point out that I am talking not about research institutes, but about IRCCS and, therefore, hospital facilities of excellence, which also do clinical research. Others of these researchers have been working with scholarships for many years and nothing is foreseen at this time for the future of these people. I recall that these institutions represent excellence because they do clinical research, not pure research, but research associated with assistance. They are therefore important parts of our National Health Service and the loss of these professionalisms, which could occur in the future, the demotivation that currently characterizes them would lead to a deterioration of this further sector of the National Health Service. Another aspect concerns the fact that the Lorenzin pyramid places all these people in the health sector, while doctors, biologists and chemists are in the leadership of the National Health Service. This is another factor of discouragement, which would make this work unattractive, otherwise very valuable to the Public Health Service.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u116	Undersecretary Bartolazzi, we will get the answer, which I am told to be longer, to the proceedings, so that the senator can take a look at it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u117	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before entering into the substance of the issues raised by the act of inspection union, it should be noted that Matera - a UNESCO World Heritage Site since 1993 - has exponentially increased the flow of tourists following the designation of the city on 17 October 2014 as the European Capital of Culture for 2019. As a result, a significant increase in tourist attendance since 2014, followed a corresponding increase in commercial activities, especially in catering and accommodation facilities, both within the district of the Sassi and in the rest of the capital. Moreover, the uniqueness of the places in question and the media echo that will follow next year's initiatives suggest that the tourist attraction of the site will not decrease even in the future. That being said, the question of the need to reclassify, on the one hand, and to temporarily strengthen the staff of the provincial command of the firemen of Matera is the subject of great attention by the Ministry of the Interior. In fact, although the aforementioned command currently counts the presence of 191 units of operational personnel against a theoretical endowment of 182, the increased anthropic load and commercial activities, not separated from the difficulty of reaching the premises in the so-called Sassi (the majority of which develop almost vertically for several meters underground) and the particular characteristics of the roadway of the area, suggest a careful assessment of the situation. In this regard, it refers to the study of a solution for the temporary strengthening of the staff, a measure that would allow the command of Matera to always have the availability of at least two operating teams. In addition, it is considered to guarantee a dynamic daily garrison consisting of a team dedicated to the initiatives related to Matera 2019, located within the Sassi area, in extraordinary day service throughout the year 2019. The garrison would take on a dynamic character in that, given the difficulty of reaching the historic center, characterized by exceptional crowding in the presence of particular events, it is expected the presence on the spot, in extraordinary working arrangements, of staff with professionalism and diversified ratings (such as those of first aid health, the Speleo-Alpino-Fluviali, telecommunications), in order to guarantee interventions of various types, but modulated according to the real commitment required by the characteristics of the single event. The garrison would have, therefore, flexible methods of use and as logistic base some premises made available by the provincial administration, where will be hospitalized also means and equipment of service. At present, in particular for the activation of the aforementioned dynamic garrison, contacts are being advanced with the Basilicata Region, held through the Prefecture of Potenza, in order to arrive at the conclusion of a special convention to contribute to the coverage of the related economic burdens. In starting to conclude, I would also like to point out that the Government is, more generally, firmly determined to strengthen the operational capacity of the National Fire Department through a substantial strengthening of the staff. In fact, in the draft budget law for 2019, which is currently examining this branch of Parliament, we have foreseen, as part of a broader extraordinary plan, the recruitment of 1,500 Firefighters according to the following timing: 650 units since 10 May 2019, 200 units since 1 September 2019 and 650 units since 1 April 2020. This is a first concrete and important result of an action that the Government intends to support and expand with absolute determination for the benefit of a sector that has always served the safety and security of citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u118	Before giving the floor to the Senator in reply, I would like to ask my fellow Members to give a summary so that questions can not be referred to the end of the Question Time which will begin at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u121	DE BONIS (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, undersecretary Gaetti has focused well on the importance of Matera capitale 2019 and the undersizing of the staff that afflicts a little 'all the Italian Forces of the Order and the Security Forces. Matera's is a story that has already seen problems within the Sassi district during very recent calamitous events. Therefore, it concerns our entire community that the impetuous development of tourism and accommodation activities that we are recording in recent years is not accompanied by a public administration's attention. We welcome the Government's commitments to strengthen the provincial command and to establish this temporary strengthening of the staff, which we are sure will be followed by a more stable settlement. Therefore, we welcome the intervention that the Government will want to make for the city of the Sassi, for Matera, for the Basilicata and for the international prestige that the next appointment will give to the whole of Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u122	The following is question 3 00078 on the review of criminal cases concerning defamatory behaviour, with particular reference to cases of gender discrimination. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u123	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the act of inspection union under discussion, the interrogating senators ask to know whether the Minister of Justice does not consider it appropriate to promote government initiatives in order to effectively combat the hateful phenomenon of verbal violence expressed on the net, including by favouring the process of draft laws relating to the institution of defamation, which extend the provisions of Article 595 (3) of the penal code in the matter of defamation by the press, the insults, the insults and the statements particularly detrimental to the dignity of the person, generically diffused and praised to any form of violence. And again, if he does not believe, in cases where verbal violence is directed against women, he promotes initiatives aimed at predicting special aggravating of punishment, even in the light of the increasingly widespread tragic cases of feminicide, now become an emergency in our country. The question is based on the story about Dr. Stefania Gasparini, Education Councillor with delegation also to equal opportunities at the municipality of Carpi. In particular, Dr. Gasparini, in the course of her political activity, in September last year issued a comment on the Facebook page about the publication of a manifesto by Forza Nuova, against which Roberto Montorsi, on the Facebook page of the same, responded with statements, then removed, of the following tenor. I quote: "Piddine, get raped by immigrants. Then it's like the idiot cultural mediator says, at first it hurts; then, have fun. This was followed by further sexist and damaging comments of female dignity, which led Dr. Gasparini to file a complaint for crimes of incitement to crime, defamation and threat. In the merits of the specific case referred to in the document of inspection union, the Ministry has taken care to acquire cognitive elements at the judicial offices owners of the relative file, which confirm what is reported in the act of inspection union. In particular, following a complaint lodged by Dr. Gasparini on 8 September 2017, the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Modena opened a proceeding, addressed to No 7404/17 RG NR Mod.21 against the aforementioned Montorsi and others, for the offences of incitement to delinquere, defamation and threat referred to in Articles 414, 595 and 612 of the Criminal Code, which was defined by the public prosecutor holding the investigations on 13 October 2017 with a request for filing for non-susistence of the fact. In accepting this request, followed by the opposition of the offended party, the judge for the preliminary investigation of the tribunal of Modena, by decree of 2 July 2017, had the proceedings dismissed. It should first be noted that, in relation to the decision taken in the present case, it is outside the prerogatives of the Minister of Justice to express any kind of assessment of the merits of the measures taken by the court, as is exclusively reserved to the judicial authority for the interpretation of the rules of law. That being said, with specific regard to the invoked extension of the provisions of Article 595 third paragraph of the Criminal Code: "even to the offences, insults and statements particularly detrimental to the dignity of the person" including those "generically diffused and praiseworthy to any form of violence" is not to be found in our legal system a legal vacuum of criminal protection. The current regulatory framework is, in fact, already abstractly capable of punishing these conducts, provided that it is identifiable as a person whose reputation is likely to be injured. In particular, according to the consolidated orientation of the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court, and transposed by that of merit, the crime of defamation is constituted by the offence against the reputation of a particular person and cannot therefore be recognized in the event that offensive sentences are pronounced or written against one or more persons belonging to a category even limited if the persons to whom the sentences refer are not identifiable. In order to form a defamation by press or by any other means of advertising, there must be a damage to the reputation of others (whether natural, legal, party, group, committee, association), provided that the offended person is at least identifiable. Therefore, this crime can undoubtedly be integrated even in the event of an offense to the reputation of a political party. In this sense, in fact, it was decided that in the matter of defamation through the press, if it goes offended to the reputation of a political party, through the behavior attributed to its unidentified exponents, who act in a given territory, legitimized to propose a complaint is who legally represents it in that territory. By way of example, in the specific case from which the question originates, in hypothesis it could be thought offended the reputation of the Democratic Party, taking into account that the offensive phrases were addressed generically to all the female members of that political formation ("piddines"), obviously not nominally identified, but identified only by reference to the membership of that political party. In this perspective, therefore, entitled to propose the complaint would have been the representative body of the aforementioned party on a national basis. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Mr. Undersecretary. I would ask you to conclude quickly because the five minutes at your disposal have ended, otherwise I have to postpone the question. Mr Morrone, State Secretary for Justice. Mr President, I would ask that the remaining part of my speech be given in order to be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u126	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, I have to say that the Undersecretary has taken all the time in his speech to explain our question, which is in fact on the record. This leaves me a little puzzled because in the end there will be no provision, i.e. the Government does not think it is necessary to issue any measure. I would remind you that hate incitement on social networks is now on the agenda, so I believe that, instead, it is necessary to implement a measure in order to get sanctions, from this point of view too. I know it is difficult because it is difficult to identify the actor, to identify those who have committed hateful incitement on social networks, but I believe that we must integrate, now, as we are doing all over the world, our criminal system. We ourselves have tabled a proposal for a law which I would ask you to examine, precisely, the question of incitement to hatred, in order to create sanctions. Instead, I thank the postal police for what they are doing and for their meritorious action to identify who, instead, every day they post and write sexist phrases. Just today we discussed the motions on violence against women. We know that hate incitement, above all, is sexist in nature. So I believe that now our Government, which is preparing, with the so-called red code and other measures, to combat violence also on social networks, must understand the need for new measures - it is true, they are new - because hate incitement takes place mainly on social networks. Beyond the fact that the judge has acted, as we have said, with partiality, I am absolutely not satisfied with the answer that the Undersecretary has given. We obviously do not want to solve this problem which, in my opinion, is very serious.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u127	The following is Question 3-00210 on staff shortages in judicial offices, in particular in the province of Lecce. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u128	Mr President, with this parliamentary question, which refers to the lack of staff in which the judicial offices and the peripheral offices of the judge of peace in Puglia are located, and specifically the Province of Lecce, with the consequent malfunctions, we are asking what initiatives are being taken, in conjunction with the competent local bodies. In this regard, it is represented that, with the reform of the judicial geography realized with the legislative decrees n. 155 and n. 156 of 7 September 2012 and n. 14 of 19 February 2014, it was arranged the suppression and the amalgamation to the headquarters of the capital of Lecce of the ten peripheral seats of the judge of peace previewed in the surrounding; seven of these ten centers, however, were then included in the list of the offices maintained with burdens to the local authorities, pursuant to article 3 of the legislative decree 7 September 2012, n. 156 and relative implementing measures, that have determined the transition to the new management order to date from 16 December 2014. Subsequently, three of these offices (Alessano, Nardò and Maglie) were closed due to non-compliance with the commitments entered into or for the revocation of the request for the maintenance of the office and, consequently, the relative competence was attributed to the district headquarters of Lecce, as already provided for by the provisions for the reform of judicial geography. To the state, therefore, beyond the district seat to integral state management, are previewed the offices of the judge of peace of Casarano, Gallipoli, Tricase and Ugento that operate according to the structure and the functionality of the centers maintained, pursuant to the aforementioned legislative decree n. 156 of 2012, according to which the expenses of supply of the judicial service, including those relative to the needs of administrative staff (and with the sole exclusion of those concerning the judicial staff and the formation of the relative administrative staff), are totally at the expense of the agency responsible for the maintenance. The bodies responsible for the seats of the judge of peace must therefore ensure the functioning of the office maintained in full efficiency and autonomy, through the appropriate allocation of structures and resources appropriate to the provision of the justice service, including, in particular, the allocation of an appropriate quota, by numerical entity and professionalism, of personnel able to provide continuous support to the judicial activity, carrying out all its fundamental functions, including that of the Registrar. Therefore, any use of administrative staff of the Ministry of Justice in support of judicial activity is excluded from the literal content of the rule which provides that the requirements of administrative staff must fully cover the entities on which the management burden rests. Moreover, as has already been noted, the assumption of the above charges corresponds to the obligation of the applicant institutions to ensure that the functional requirements of the office for which maintenance has been granted are maintained. The fifth paragraph of Article 3 of Legislative Decree no. 156 of 2012 provides, in fact, that, if the local agency responsible for the management of the judicial garrison does not comply with the commitments relating to administrative staff and expenses for a period of more than one year, the relative office of the judge of peace is suppressed by the adoption of a ministerial decree that provides for the exclusion of the seat from the list of those maintained. Pursuant to article 5, paragraph 1, of the law of 28 April 2016, no. 57, the office of the judge of peace is coordinated by the president of the court, who provides for all the tasks of management of the staff of judiciary and administrative staff and, pursuant to article 8, paragraph 1, of legislative decree 13 July 2017, no. 116, implementing the delegation conferred with the aforementioned law, the president of the court coordinates the office of the judge of peace that has seat in the surrounding area and, in particular, distributes the work, through the use of automatic procedures, between the judges, supervises their activity and supervises the performance of the services of chancellery and auxiliary. It shall exercise any other management function which the law assigns to the executive of the judicial office. For the offices of the judge of peace of Casarano, Gallipoli, Tricase and Ugento, offices maintained with charges to the local authorities applicants, it is therefore primarily up to the President of the court of Lecce, to ask the municipal authorities responsible for the management of the different offices to equip themselves with a quota of personnel suitable to correspond to the operational necessities deriving from the respective workloads. If no response is given to any solicitations of the president of the court and, therefore, the case is realized previewed from the recalled fifth paragraph of article 3 of the legislative decree n. 156 of 2012, the issue of the relative ministerial decree of exclusion of the office of the Judge of peace from the list of places maintained. This, as regards the situation of administrative staff, represents that, on 22 November 2018, the national average coverage is 20,43 per cent, taking into account the personnel in command from and to other administrations, and 21,14 per cent on the basis of the places covered (organic plant referred to in the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers n.84 of 15 June 2015). In the district of Lecce, compared to an organic plant of 839 units, 813.5 places are covered, also taking into account the positions of detachment and command, with an average coverage rate of only 3,04 percent, well below, therefore, the said national average. The figure also assumes a particular relevance, if compared with that relating to the neighbouring district of Taranto, where, in front of an organic plant of 465 units, 383 places are covered, taking into account also the positions of detachment and command, with an average coverage percentage of 17.63 percent or that of the equally contiguous district of Bari, where, compared to an organic plant of 1,520 units, 1,312 places are covered, taking into account also the positions of detachment and command, with an average coverage percentage of 13.68 percent. More specifically, with reference to the district of Lecce it is noted that, as regards staff qualified as judicial assistant, following the approval in November 2017 of the rankings of the contest launched in 2016, on January 8, 2018 took possession of 52 winners of the contest; last April, they took possession of 43 other suitable and, finally, on September 19, following further scrolling of the ranking, 23 additional judicial assistants. In addition, the Department of Civil Service has already been asked for permission to hire 200 other judicial assistants, by further scrolling the ranking of the competition. In this regard it is also represented that, by ministerial decree 14 February 2018, the administration has already modified the organic endowment of the profile of judicial assistant providing, in the districts of Puglia, an increase of 39 total posts of judicial assistant (24 for Bari, 9 for Lecce and 6 for Taranto).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u129	Mr. Undersecretary, I appreciate the effort, but I've already given you an extra minute and a half. I couldn't believe his office arranged a ten-minute answer. It's already been five minutes and I find myself having to remind you of the time. I repeat, I still appreciate your attempt. , State Secretary for Justice. All right, Mr. President. I would ask that the remainder of the speech be included in the report. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u132	VITALI (FI-BP). Mr President, the Secretary's reply could have been much faster, which merely interpreted the rule, which we honestly already knew. The point was to understand what this government intends to do in the face of this situation. We understand you're not going to do anything. When a certain government - not us - did the reform of judicial districts, there had been a formal commitment not to modify the mapping of the offices of the judge of peace, which were the first garrison of the state's justice for citizens. Then the offices of the judge of peace were also abolished, unless the municipalities charged themselves with economic burdens. So, on the one hand, we pay the highest taxes in Europe and, on the other, we have the worst services in Europe. We realize, therefore, that the musicians change, but the music remains absolutely the same. I therefore declare absolute dissatisfaction with the answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u133	Following is the question 3-00285 on the establishment of a police post in Moena, in the province of Trento. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u134	Mr President, with regard to the possibility of setting up a new police post, both for administrative police activities and for the ordinary activities of control of the territory in the municipality of Moena, I would like to point out first that there are no formal proposals for this in the documents of the Ministry of the Interior. At the moment in Moena is operating a station command of the Carabinieri weapon, as well as a command of the local police. Moreover, from the examination of the relevant data, there is a significant reduction, equal to 19.7 percent, of the crime in the aforementioned Municipality in the period January-October 2018, if compared to the corresponding period of 2017. With regard to the concerns raised by the questioner about the inconveniences suffered by citizens regarding the need to go to Trento for the handling of administrative practices, I would point out that - as is the case for other areas located in the valleys of Trentino, at the Alpine Training Centre of the State Police of Moena has already been specially organized and operating a portable "side door" with the intervention of personnel of the Trentino police station that, once a month, guarantees its presence on the territory to facilitate the acquisition and delivery of passports and accompanying documents for minors of fifteen years. If, in the state, therefore, the conditions for the establishment of a fixed police post in Moena do not seem to exist, I can assure, in a more general way, that the attention of this Government is high on the need to guarantee the territory of the Province of Trento highest safety standards. From this point of view I inform you that the implementation, by the Ministry of the Interior, of a special plan for the strengthening of the staff of all the police, within which the allocation to Trento of total 21 personnel units, of which 12 already assigned to October last, has already been planned, a unit to be assigned within the next month of December to the Training Center of Moena and other 8 starting from February 2019. I would like to reiterate, again on this occasion, the Government's intention to increase the effectiveness of the action to prevent and combat the police forces, further improving the standards of operation of the security system. In this direction, the appropriation of EUR 500 million is included in the draft budget law for 2019, which will enable an extraordinary recruitment plan for police officers, magistrates and administrative staff to be implemented. For the State Police, the intention is to make 100% of the staff turnover paid, through the implementation of a five-year recruitment plan to eliminate staff shortages. We are also working to extend the organic plants of the State Police, which had been reduced to 106,000 units by the Law of the Madia and, meanwhile, we have not followed up the plan to reduce the safeguards throughout the country, which had been proposed by the previous Government, because we are convinced that we must safeguard the specifics of the Police, strengthening their arrangements and not reducing them. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u135	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u137	TEXTOR (FI-BP). Mr President, the answer clearly leaves me disappointed, partly because, during the examination of the Security Act, an agenda of mine was adopted, which committed the Government in this direction. I would like to stress the importance of the Alpine Training Centre in Moena, which was born in 1948 from a first training course for skiers held by the Alps, which was then moved in 1952 to Moena, in a tourist resort of great importance that is the Fassa Valley. Here has always been built a training for the security and mountain rescue personnel, which is also used when there are catastrophic events, as in the case of an earthquake or the abundant snowy events that have affected Central Italy. The staff, thus trained, is therefore used to help all those who experience the difficulties of the mountain. This structure has been no longer hosts courses for students for years, except for a semi-annual basic course reserved for gold flames, in experimental phase. It is therefore a structure that is little used, compared to the potential it could have. (15.01) (continued TEXTOR). The request to have a police post was intended to guarantee people living in the mountains the same services as people living in the city. Let us remember that we are witnessing a phenomenon of depopulation, which can only and exclusively be combated by maintaining the services for the citizens living in the mountains. On this point I would like to insist, precisely because, if we do not guarantee services to non-urban territories, I want to understand how we can combat the cementification of urban centres and the emptying of valleys. Who will take care of the valleys if our young people do not want to live in places where services are not guaranteed? Mr President, I remember that the Valle di Fassa and Moena are about 100 kilometres from Trento and I guarantee that, in winter weather conditions, as it is snowy in the mountains, it is difficult to travel to Trento. So, I don't think this is an in vain request, since it comes from people living in the mountains. As I always say, let those who live the territories bring their own will and voice into the institutions. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u138	I note that Senator De Petris told the Presidency that she wanted to turn the question 3-00021 into a written question, which will take the number 4-00953. Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u139	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, the Minister for Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism Policy and the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Casini has the right to explain the question 3-00431 on the participation of the Italian ambassador in Libya at the International Conference in Palermo on 12 and 13 November 2018, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u140	Minister, as you know, we were the first country to reopen the embassy in Tripoli. This is to the honour of Italy and our diplomacy. I'm opening a parenthesis and closing it: from the Secretary General to the last official, we can be proud of our diplomats, who, regardless of the successive governments, do a serious job in the interest of the country. We must be particularly grateful to those who work under difficult conditions, such as in Venezuela or, in the case of the question, in Libya. However, as of 20 August, we, who took an initiative in Palermo, two weeks ago, at the Conference on Libya, have a seat without the ambassador, who did an interview and was subsequently invited to return (but we do not understand what reasons, really). Yesterday I examined the texts of his replies to the Foreign Affairs Committee and it is not clear whether he did so on his own initiative, because Farnesina imposed it on him or for third-party intervention; we do not understand. The fact remains that in four months we had in Tripoli the embassy opened without ambassador - which is equivalent to sending a fleet to sea without the captain or commander - and all the preparation of the event of the Conference for Libya has seen absent one of its main connoisseurs and especially our ambassador to Libya. It is as if we were doing a Conference on another country without our ambassador, who should be the representative of the State in Libya (or rather, it is). The reasons I am waiting for you to explain them to us clearly, because perhaps it is I who have not understood them, but they are not clear; in fact, if I check in the Reports what has been said in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I find things also different. I would therefore like to see a clear definition of the reason why the ambassador is here. If he cannot return, name another person and target this person - who, moreover, is a deep connoisseur of the Arab world - to do something else; if our ambassador has to stay in Italy and do not understand what, because he does not seem to have participated even in the preliminary meetings on the Conference for Libya, we do not understand what the attitude of the Government and the use of these diplomats are.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u141	The Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Professor Moavero Milanesi, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u142	Mr President, I shall reply to the questions put by the Senator. The Italian ambassador to Libya, Giuseppe Perrone, did not participate in the Palermo Conference; however, it is quite clear that the analyses he carried out during his work made an important contribution to the preparation of this Conference, even if he did not participate in the actual work. I would also like to make it clear that Ambassador Perrone was brought back to Italy, to Rome, on 10 August and has not since returned to Libya. The decision, taken in agreement with the ambassador himself, is justified by the serious risks to the safety of his person, in which the misunderstandings created by the interview have resulted, which have been reported by the Libyan authorities and confirmed by the competent Italian security authorities. On this point I have also had the opportunity to report to the House and I am sorry if I was not good enough to make myself clear, but I hope to be clear on this occasion. The Government intends to ensure the presence of the Head of Mission in Tripoli as quickly as possible and points out that the activity of the embassy has never been suspended, but has continued also in the difficult situations that have occurred. Let us consider the question of the presence of a Head of Mission as urgent, no longer different and to be resolved as quickly as possible. The Government is already making all appropriate assessments in order to make this decision as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u143	Senator Casini has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u144	Minister, the glass can be half empty or half full. Since I'm an institution man, I want to pretend I'm half full. Thank you for the fact that you, after five months, agree with me that the appointment of another ambassador is indisputable, since there is no flexibility for this in Libya. At this point I look forward to the appointment and certainly, knowing and esteeming it, I know that it will be a nomination to the level of the situation. Only in the end, because of the controversy that a little bit each of us puts, I observe that I do not know if what happened was due to the security of the ambassador or the fact that Italian authorities operating in Libya also have different ideas than the assessment that the ambassador made in relation to the Libyan situation. They all speak of Libya: the security authorities, the Services, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There is a lot of confusion and duplication of expertise. I believe that the Services that operate in Libya, yesterday, today and tomorrow (this is a general problem), must find harmony with diplomatic representations. They can't do things behind their backs. They are bound by confidentiality, of course; if the Security Services were not reserved, they would not be so. But the relationship with Farnesina is essential. We are convinced that the ambassador entered a mechanism greater than he did, so we finally sacrificed the ambassador. All right, now let's name another one and look forward, we don't look back anymore; let's put a veil on the past. As you said - and I agree with you - there must be an early indication of another ambassador.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u145	I greet, on behalf of the Assembly, the teachers and students of the fifth grade and the first grade of the Teresianum Institute in Padua, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u146	Senator Rauti has the right to explain the question 3-00430 on the subscription by Italy of the Global compact on migrations, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u147	Mr President, Minister, the Intergovernmental Conference for the adoption of the Global Compact, the Global Pact on Immigration, will be held in Marrakesh on 10 and 11 December. For Brothers of Italy, this pact will bring down every distinction between refugees, political refugees or economic migrants, guaranteeing any kind of immigration and creating increasing obligations in relation to the services to be provided to immigrants. The United States, the Visegrád Group (Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovakia), Australia, Austria and also Switzerland have already joined forces against this immigrationist approach, instead of national sovereignty. In the text - we repeat - there is no clear difference between legal and illegal migration. The signing of the Global compact implies, from our point of view, an unacceptable transfer of national sovereignty on the migratory theme, according to a well-defined ideological approach, which effectively enshrines migration as a universal and uncontrolled right. And for our country, for its centrality in the Mediterranean, for its centrality in the liquid continent that is the Mediterranean, this aspect is very important, because our country represents the landing place of the routes that come from Africa and is also the gateway to the Western world. So this pact for our country is of crucial importance. I apologise if what we have presented differs somewhat from what I am saying, but you will agree with me, Minister, that there have been many twists in the last few days and hours on this subject. There have been conflicting and contradictory statements on the Global compact. Initially, both you, Minister, and Prime Minister Conte, expressed a favourable orientation for subscription; then, after days of silence, we of Brothers of Italy requested a declaration from the Government; Minister Salvini postponed the decision to parliament and Prime Minister Conte declared that Italy will not attend the Marrakech Conference. So, what is, and if there is, a government position? Why did you wait so long? Why did you wait until the last minute? Of course, it wasn't a surprise to subscribe to the Global compact. What elements do you think you can provide to this House today in relation to what seemed to be a retrograde step dictated by the fear of splitting a government comrade from the double soul, choosing Parliament's as a way of escape? PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Professor Moavero Milanesi, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u148	Mr President, as I reiterate what I said about half an hour ago to the House and Senate Commissions, I am willing to come and report at any time in detail and on the merits of any issue, including this one of the so-called Global compact for migration, so this multilateral migration pact. I was available even before, if the Commissions had requested it. With regard to the merit response of the Senator, this Global compact is a pact - it is not even definable - that concerns safe, orderly and regular migration, according to the title given to it in the Italian language, and represents a platform of cooperation between the participating countries to govern migration flows at international level, according to a multidimensional approach of burden sharing between the countries of origin, transit and destination of the migrants themselves. This is to give a hint of merit on what we are talking about, perhaps even for the benefit of the children who are attending our session. Last week, on the 21st of this month to be more precise, I said that we would have an in-depth discussion in the government: I said this in this House by answering another parliamentary question. This deepening in the Government should have taken place - and it was then - before proceeding to the conclusion - if any, I emphasized - of the Global compact. And I added that we would also take account of parliamentary stimuli. To this end, I also wrote to the President of the Council to make him known to the House. This position was essentially confirmed yesterday. In view of the fact that the Global compact is a document with its complexity, which addresses issues and issues that are extremely sensitive and heard by the citizens, the President of the Council has announced that the Government, after deepening, considers it appropriate to have a detailed and detailed debate in Parliament, prior to the decisions to be taken on the final choice to be made. The President of the Council also had the opportunity to clarify yesterday that the Government will not participate in the Conference, so no member of the Government will be present at the Marrakech Conference; Italy will be represented and our country, on the basis of the results of the parliamentary debate and the direction that the Government will take at that point, will eventually be able to assess the final choices to make. We find a similar position in the Swiss Confederation, or Switzerland that we want to say. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u149	Senator Rauti has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u150	Minister, thank you also for the points of merit, but in this House I think we already knew them all. I have not found in his words, however, what his personal position is. I know what you said back in the day, but I don't want to argue. What I would like to stress in this House and, outside, perhaps even to the children who are listening to us, is that the immigration agreement, which is said not to be binding, obliges, however, to specific political commitments, which risk permanently compromising any policy of combating uncontrolled immigration because of the lack of distinction between refugees and illegal immigrants. We believe that the fact that the Interior Minister, Mr Salvini, has delegated to Parliament, asking to act according to conscience, is not legitimate in a moral sense, because it is not an issue to be left to consciences. This is a subject of a purely political nature: uncontrolled immigration is not a question of conscience, but a decisive and distinctive political theme of every government. We remain therefore of the idea that the Global compact immigration is against national interest, does not govern immigration, but rather encourages it in an uncontrolled way, does not know how to distinguish between regular and clandestine, threatens borders and sovereignty and, above all, has already exploded contradictions within the government. It is clear that there is a globalist and a sovereignist soul who cannot reach an agreement on this point, as they did not find it yesterday in the European Parliament when, by voting on this point, the triggers, on the one hand, and the League, on the other, split. Putting the decision back in Parliament continues to appear to us today, after his words, to be a pilatestic attitude of postponement and a lack of courage in dealing with such an important decision as a government. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u151	Senator Stefano has the right to explain the question 3-00435 on the discipline of wine tourism activity, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u152	Minister Centinario, with the budget law for the year 2018, we introduced the discipline of the wine business, announced in nuce in the unique text of wine and then resumed from parliamentary activity. The norm, as per practice, contains an express reference to a special interministerial decree, to be adopted in agreement with the Conference for the relations between the State and the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, to outline the definitive guidelines implementation. Well, there is this decree. It was discussed at the meeting of the Conference on 10 May, where President Bonaccini, on behalf of the Regions, expressed a favourable opinion on the agreement, making it conditional on the adoption of minimum proposals for amendments. The outgoing vice minister of that time, Olivero, by institutional courtesy, proceeded to the postponement awaiting the new government. Nothing has happened from here. Allow me to make a brief remark: the recognition of wine tourism is the result of intense institutional activity, collaboration and listening with the whole category, which asked for a legal legitimacy to a business that is worth at least 3 billion a year and that already moves 15 million tourists. Its repeatedly declared sensitivity to the world of wine and tourism, Minister, I say this with institutional courtesy, has had some distortion in recent months. In fact, in an interview last July you referred to an immediate sharing with the Regions for the last filings, while a few days ago you were in Verona - just before me, I didn't have the pleasure to meet you - at the Wine2Wine event and you said you wanted to equip the sector in a short time with a law on wine tourism. Then I am here to ask you to clarify, because the norm is there, if it is your understanding to make the discipline fully operational shortly. I say this because the operators who have shared with us that legislative path are subjected to two risks that lie, one of an administrative nature and one of a fiscal nature, which the rule should resolve. I would therefore ask you to explain to us how you intend to proceed and whether there are any reasons why or why you are going to postpone it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism, Senator Centinaio, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u153	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our food and wine excellences, as well as being an enormous economic resource for our country, represent an extraordinary opportunity to promote a great cultural heritage, also from a tourist point of view. In this context, wine is definitely one of the driving sectors of our agri-food, both nationally and internationally, and it can really be the extra strength for our country. Hence the need to promote and enhance an extraordinary growing sector that is represented by wine tourism. In this direction, on October 2 a meeting was held with representatives of the entire chain (Coldiretti, Confagricoltura, CIA, Alleanza Cooperative Italiane -Agroalimentare, Unione Italiana Vini, Federvini, Federdoc, Assoenologists) to examine the text of the decree that had been prepared, according to the 2018 budget law, to define, among other things, the guidelines, the requirements and the minimum standards of quality for the exercise of wine tourism activity. In this context, it was agreed to come up with a shared solution for a quick definition of the issue. At the moment we are waiting to receive the conclusions to which the chain will come, the next meeting of which is scheduled for tomorrow, 30 November. However, I would like to point out that our aim is to ensure the most effective regulation of the present case, with the collaboration of the regions to which tourism is delegated, and also of the consortia. The aim is to give the country system clear rules that allow, quickly, to promote abroad the entire wine sector, also through the encouragement of activities related to wine tourism. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u154	Senator Taricco may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u155	Mr President, I say to the Minister that we are pleased to learn the news he has given, but we cannot be satisfied, because many months have passed and our feeling is that the announcements of things being done or done are traveling much faster than the practical facts. You have laid down dozens of provisions requiring implementing decrees. Just to name a few: Law 154 of 2016, the so-called agricultural colleague, has not yet been approved all the decrees provided for in the text; the last budget law still has much of the measures that need to be implemented. Of the legislative decrees previewed from the agricultural connected (parlo of the forest chain, that has seen approved the legislative decree), on ten ministerial decrees previewed none has been approved; on the reorganization of the Agea, where has been approved the legislative decree relative to the implementation of the agricultural connected, on fourteen ministerial decrees previewed no one has been approved; on the single text of the medicinal plants, zero decrees in four have been approved. We believe that intent is fine, promises are fine, but we need to move quickly to concrete approval, so that we can put our world in a position to have the answers it is waiting for. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u156	Senator Battistoni has the right to explain the question 3-00434 on initiatives in favour of the agricultural sector, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u157	Mr President, Minister, already during the debate on the Update Note to the DEF, we had raised, like Forza Italia, some issues concerning agriculture. In particular, we have pointed out that more and more agriculture cannot rely solely on programming but, unfortunately, it must deal with the continuous climate changes that create many problems for our farmers. During the summer there were strong off-season hailstorms, which destroyed much of the harvest. Last month, with the arrival of winter, there was an exponential increase in these phenomena, among other things of great importance, which have caused considerable damage throughout Italy. We are talking, as we have seen also from estimates of the associations of category, of heavy damages in Campania, Apulia, Calabria, Sicily, Marche and Umbria; over 30 million euros of damages in Lazio; Lombardy has an estimate of over 60 million euros; for Veneto and Trentino there is even more than 110 million. Above all, therefore, we need to be aware that the indisputable climate change is now an important factor with which our agriculture has to deal. Unfortunately, the damage suffered by this sector can be estimated at over two billion euros, so, in addition to the already planned fund, we ask whether it is not appropriate to set up a special fund for these climatic disasters that, in most cases, have destroyed the whole of the harvest and also our forest heritage. We also ask whether there is any need to find measures to support invaders to contain floods such as these days, and above all, special support for hill and mountain agriculture. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u158	The Minister for Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism, Senator Centinaio, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u159	Mr President, first of all I would like to say that I agree with the comments made by my colleague on the characteristics of our culture and climate conditions. In this regard, this Ministry is following closely and with priority the emergency situation caused by the most recent adverse weather conditions that have caused serious damage to infrastructure, communication routes, crops, forest heritage, livestock and especially coastal tourist resorts. In this regard, given the extent of the territory affected, which has so far affected 11 Regions, and the considerable amount of damage caused to both the agricultural sector and the forest heritage, this Administration immediately interfaced with the Department of Civil Protection and with the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano to start a punctual detection of the damage and the consequent needs for the restoration of the productive potential of the agricultural enterprises and the forest heritage. In this context, this Administration has contributed to the drafting of a first civil protection order for the agricultural sector that provides in the first place interventions referred to in article 25, paragraph 2 of Legislative Decree No. 1 of 2018 aimed, among other things, to provide the first reliefs to the support of the companies damaged by the event, in order to meet the most urgent needs, to the financing of interventions for the reduction of residual risk and to the reconnaissance of the needs for the restoration of the damaged productive structures. Secondly, it is envisaged to derogate from the provisions of Legislative Decree No 102 of 2004 in order to allow the activation of the compensatory interventions of the National Solidarity Fund against damage to crops and farm structures that can be insured with policies that are facilitated but not insured. In particular, agricultural enterprises may be granted: capital contributions up to 80% of the damage on ordinary salesable gross production; five-year depreciation loans for the greater management needs in the year in which the event took place and in the following year; an extension of the instalments of credit operations due in the year in which the calamitous event occurred and the partial exemption of up to 50% of the payment of own social security contributions, of their employees, capital contributions for the restoration of damaged business structures and for the recovery of stocks which may be compromised or destroyed. In addition, in line with the primary needs of agricultural holdings, measures may also be taken to restore infrastructure related to agricultural activity, including irrigation and reclamation, with the burden of expenditure borne by the National Solidarity Fund. The recognition of damages has been initiated with the Regions and is also preparatory to the submission of the request for activation of the European Union Solidarity Fund, with which it will be possible to financially supplement the budget of the civil protection order for the implementation of certain activities provided for by the same such as the restoration of infrastructure and services, the construction of accommodation facilities to meet the immediate needs of the rural population, the immediate cleaning of damaged areas, including natural areas. I would add that on the initiative of the President of the Council of Ministers, the reconnaissance of the interventions to be carried out with the highest priority and urgency in order to combat the phenomenon of hydrogeological failure and to secure the territory, activity in which this Ministry actively participated proposing an extraordinary plan of works to be carried out by the reclamation consortia and the different subjects entrusted with the management of the forest surfaces, aimed at restoring the functionality and hydraulic efficiency of the hydraulic grid of the Country. With a view to the strategic balance of the government's intervention priorities, aimed at relaunching the country system, all my commitment - even in this delicate budgetary session - is aimed at allowing the agricultural sector to be put in a position to overcome this last crisis caused by the adverse weather events that hit the nation. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u160	I give the floor to Senator Battistoni to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u161	Minister, thank you and I appreciate your attention to this issue. I am partly satisfied with your answer, partly because we will then see, at this budgetary session, how the situation will evolve and what concrete measures will be taken to meet our farmers. Among other things, I would like to suggest, if possible, that the regions should also be given an indication, because they very often fail to spend the funds of the rural development plan, both on agriculture and the environment, so that they can make a further contribution to resolving these problems. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u162	Senator Rufa has the right to explain the question 3-00433 on the protection of the archaeological area of Sibari, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u163	Mr President, representatives of the Government, I address the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities. The archaeological area of Sibari was the first colony founded by the Achaeans on the Ionian coast of Calabria. Given the natural protection constituted by the mouths of two rivers and the fertility of the plain in which it was founded, to the south of the Gulf of Taranto, the colony in a short time became rich and famous, recognized as the most powerful of the Magnogrean cities, so much to cover a hegemonic position on a vast territory, so as to be considered empire under the control of Sibari. The deep changes of the territory of Sibari, such as the advance of the coastline, due to the river deposits of Crati and Coscile, and the changes of the beehives of the two rivers had, over the centuries, made archaeological research difficult. The scientific exploration of the territory of Sibari began in 1879 and there have been important discoveries such as the Hellenistic necropolis of Turi and the enotria necropolis and a settlement of the bronze-iron period in the area of Torre Mordillo. From the beginning the complex stratigraphy was evident, due to the overlapping of three cities on the same site, albeit not total and with different extension. In the last twenty years, approximately 18 million euros have been allocated for the recovery and enhancement of the archaeological park to secure hydrogeological by means of draining trenches, to build new buildings for the tourist reception, to build and furnish warehouses and rooms of the museum and to open new archaeological excavations. In particular, after the flood of 2013, some draining trenches have been put in place, never used before in an archaeological site, which would have had to solve definitively not only the problem of rising water from the groundwater, but also that of the disposal of rainwater and scrolling, even if before the flood of 2013 to keep more or less dry the structures of the monuments of the groundwater have been wellpoints. I ask you what initiatives you intend to put in place the Ministry in address, both in order to return the area to the usability of the public, that to know how the funds paid up to now have been used and what actions you intend to take to ensure greater protection, maintenance and conservation not only of the archaeological area of Sibari, but of our immense archaeological heritage as a whole, including that considered minor but falling back in a region with term in Matera, European capital of culture 2019, since the event could be a flyover for the development of the contiguous territories as well. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u164	The Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities, Dr Bonisoli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u165	Mr President, Senators, I would like to thank Senator Rufa for the opportunity he offers me to discuss the safety of archaeological sites. Let's start with the archaeological area of Sibari. Let me first of all remind you that, in view of the peculiarity of the site, also mentioned in the parliamentary act, and its highly archaeological value, it has assumed peremptory character the protection of every single artifact in it and, consequently, the integrity of the entire site has been the primary objective so far pursued and that we will naturally continue to pursue. With reference to the investments made on the site, since 2013 (year of the flood) in the area of the archaeological park of Sibari have been paid, for works of protection and valorization, both Arcus funds (for a total of 560,000 euros), and funds coming from the PON culture - Sibari locality (measures 3.1 and 3.6), for a total of about 13 million euros. Certificates of regular performance or test reports shall be drawn up for all the work carried out. In the context of the PON cultural funds, an additional €2 million has also been identified, of which €682,000 plus VAT already contracted for museum and exhibition works. These works are still being carried out. As regards what has happened, the honourable Member has rightly pointed out the problem of draining trenches. Until two years ago the site's fault water control was carried out through the use of electric pumps. However, we had noticed that they had high operating costs and, therefore, it was decided to switch to draining trenches, which is the first time that they are used in an archaeological site of this type. Unfortunately, since October 3, draining trenches have some problems and can no longer drain as much as they should. Luckily, we still have three draining pumps on the site that are potentially in operation, so for emergencies we have a response capability. I agree that it is not enough to ensure the opening of the site, therefore feasibility projects are being studied in order, probably, to associate with a restoration of the draining trenches a pumping capacity of the fault water to allow the site not to be closed, but to be fully usable. Finally, since we are talking about all the Italian cultural heritage, I would like to remind you that within the so-called Genoa Decree (I refer to Decree-Law 28 September 2018, n. 109, converted into Law 16 November 2018, n. 130) is foreseen, among other things, the adoption by my Ministry, in the context of conservation activities referred to in Articles 29 et seq. of the Code of Cultural Heritage and Landscape, an extraordinary national plan for monitoring and conservation of real estate cultural assets.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u166	I give the floor to Senator Rufa to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u167	Mr. Minister, I had no doubt about your commitment and loyalty, since we agree that we still have to work. Unfortunately, in this case nature has not helped us. I trust in his work, which I see fruitful and continuous. Thank you and we will work together. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u168	Senator Montevecchi has the right to explain the question 3-00432 on the security of places and institutes of culture, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u169	Mr President, the recent events - in particular the gas leak that occurred in the Arezzo State Archives on 20 September 2018, which caused the death of two employees - have brought attention to the need to ensure security within the places and institutions of national culture and cultural heritage. On this subject you, Minister, have spoken in several locations, stating the commitment of the Government to give priority to the security and integrity of the places of culture and national heritage itself, in order to protect the activity of employees and to guarantee visitors a safe use. Following these statements, the Ministry has allocated 109 million euros for the safety and fire training of all Italian sites. I would like to comment on the fact that this is an important investment. I would therefore ask you whether, in parallel with this important appropriation, the Ministry has provided for other measures in the direction of effective implementation of the plan for safety and fire training in all Italian sites, for the protection of visitors, workers and works themselves.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u170	The Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities, Dr Bonisoli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u171	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Montevecchi for her request for clarification on the policies we intend to put in place for the safety of the places of culture that are assigned to the responsibility of the Ministry that I chair. I also remember very well what happened on September 20, because two colleagues were missing, Piero Bruni and Filippo Bagni and it is really very difficult to deal with the families of colleagues who went to work in the morning and did not return home in the evening. I therefore took the matter very seriously and realized that the State was probably a little - forgive my diplomacy - too lenient to itself in the way in which it dealt, in the past, with the issue of safety, in particular fire safety. The state does not have the same attention in asking itself what it asks, for example, of a private subject, so different places of culture are not in place from the point of view of security. Let's start with this. This is the reason why I was first involved in finding the resources and finalizing them, within the Ministry's budget. The figure is correct: we are talking about 109 million, which I demobilized with a decree of 25 October to implement an extraordinary multi-annual plan of fire safety, which will be financed entirely by the Ministry. The plan will cover 314 establishments and places of culture and aims to significantly improve the safety of employees, visitors and cultural heritage. There are many relatively minor interventions, because what we have seen is that, in some cases, perhaps millions of euros had been spent restructuring, but there was not that additional piece to make the fire escape, the extra panic handle and therefore to put the state in a position to fully respond to the security needs. This is something that has happened in the past and my commitment is that it will no longer happen in the future. To make this plan work, we will work together with the fire department, whom I thank for their fundamental support, with which we have undertaken an effective collaboration that will involve a review of emergency planning and procedures, encouraging the training of employees, which is a fundamental part of the plan. In this regard, I would like to say that, when we talk about employee training, it must start from the highest hierarchical level within the institution: if managers do not take the fire training course, they cannot expect employees to give the right attention to regulations that could save their lives tomorrow. In addition, we have activated a new structure within the Ministry, the Unit for the security of cultural heritage, created specifically to deal with this very delicate problem and, more general, the emergency within the heritage, which will be under the direction of Prefect Fabio Carapezza Guttuso. The Ministry also participates, together with the Ministry of Defence, in the project called "Duplice uso sistema" on the innovative use of the Armed Forces at the service of the Country: it is a matter of using the data that the Defense has available, through the use of satellites and drones, to monitor any phenomena of hydrogeological failure related to cultural goods, or structural failures such as those unfortunately occurred recently. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Montevecchi has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u172	Minister, I am very pleased to hear your words. I hope that this will be the first step for a new season within the Ministry, dedicated to a large ordinary maintenance plan, because, as we have already said on other occasions, the world of cultural goods needs an ordinary maintenance plan. There is no ordinary, it has never been done and in the previous legislation we have been very dedicated to operations of great media effect and we have not cared, instead, what should be the first concern, that is to safeguard our places, daily. I hope that next year we will inaugurate this season in the Ministry, we can develop a great plan of maintenance and then, perhaps in the financial maneuver of the coming year, we can allocate the resources possible. So I am very pleased with the answer, which I take as a step of great hope also for the future. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u173	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u174	I inform you that the President of the Senate and the President of the Chamber of Deputies have appointed members of the Parliamentary Supervisory Committee on the tax registry. The list of members of that Commission will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u175	I communicate that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the following bicameral parliamentary committees are convened, for their constitution, Wednesday, December 5, at the headquarters of Palazzo San Macuto, in via del Seminario, according to the following timetables: 8.30 am, Parliamentary Commission for simplification and Parliamentary Committee for the supervision of the tax registry; at 14.00, Parliamentary Committee for regional issues and Parliamentary Committee for the monitoring of the activities of bodies managing compulsory forms of social security and welfare.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u176	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u178	CORRADO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the B-series football derby between Crotone and Cosenza on Monday 26 November, the TGR Calabria's column "Good morning Region" hosted Giancarlo Ciabattari, a former footballer who in the 1960s and 1970s played for the Bruzia team, but was also lent to the Pythagorean cousins. In addition to being the old glory of both teams, Ciabattari was presented as the author of two books, whose proceeds will be destined for charity. However, the spectators were shocked to hear that the first novel, from 2012 and republished last year, is called "Zio Luigi, the last man of honor." No crotonese, in fact, has escaped that the title of the work celebrates the infamous zu Luigi, alias U Zirru, to the century Luigi Vrenna, died in 1992. Possible, they have asked many, that the TGR has lent itself to such an explicit captatio benevolentiae towards the leadership of the Football Club Crotone, related to the undisputed leader of the 'local historical godmother of the Vrenna-Ciampà-Bonaventura-Corigliano? I searched the web for news on the contents of the book, which was also presented at the National Library of Cosenza in 2013, under the patronage of the Ministry then led by Mr Franceschini. Well, the title is not a mere find of the author or publisher to attract readers. On online sites where it is possible to buy it, in fact, the wife of the Ciabattari, Calabrian, expresses herself as follows: In the story of the book "Uncle Luigi. The last man of honor" I personally lived next to my husband the experience of knowing the old men of honorable society and I can assure you that, in its drama, it was a positive experience. We have met a man worthy of the meaning of being him, a true man of honor. His friendship, after years, remains indelible in our hearts. Without wishing to review Mrs. Ciabattari's judgment, I would like to remind you that literature is a medium for all intents and purposes, so every book is a weapon on the communicative level. The description made by the lady, in commendable terms, of the chief stick of the 'ndrina mentioned above, arrested in 1974 for the unforgettable murder of two children, ceases to be a personal fact or mere work of ingenuity, at the moment when the Calabrian public television lends itself to echo such an explicit certificate of esteem for a person censorable on the human and social level. The public service is expected to consider with special attention the opportunity of initiatives that can also indirectly tax or even mythize organised crime. Moreover, the sick mafia-football relationship has always been nourished by a certain tolerance towards individuals and situations whose value may possibly escape the common man, but cannot and must not escape the media. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that I promise to investigate the Rai Supervisory Committee and that I have already presented an article on the order of journalists and the Italian National Press Federation, hoping that in future all communication professionals will pay more attention to such sensitive issues for our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] 15:57 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u179	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u181	AUDDINO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking in this House to bring to the attention of this House an unfortunate affair which, once again, involves my land, Calabria. A few days ago, the reportage of a television program was aired which highlighted some anomalies concerning the conduct of a public selection procedure for drivers of the Ferrovie della Calabria, a company owned by the Region. During the test, the aspiring drivers would have been provided, as is the practice, with a cedolino with the personal data preprinted, a sheet with the questions and one for the answers, to be indicated by blacking the appropriate boxes. Well, on the canopy and the answer sheet there were special spaces in which to apply a pair of adhesive barcodes. It is clear that this mechanism, designed to anonymously associate the task with the competitor, does not, however, have the requirements to guarantee the authorship of the elaboration, unlike that provided for in various competition procedures of other Regions of Italy, where the bar code of the cedolino must be countersigned. In addition, the drastic selection obtained was significant: from the 1,800 candidates participating in the pre-elective test, we reached the only 55 candidates admitted to the next test, but I go ahead. The pre-selection test - as confirmed by the participants and the press reports of these days - provided little questions relating to the subjects covered by the competition: psychoattitudinal tests, mathematical logic, general culture and current events were present to a predominant extent with respect to the specific discipline of the road code, the management of the driving and the operation of the buses, which were instead present to negligible extent. Further doubts about the ban have emerged on some local newspapers, in which it has been widely emphasized that the date originally foreseen for the performance of the pre-election test has been postponed in order to allow some candidates to acquire a requirement; requirement that, I remind the Assembly, the notice required was in the possession of candidates within the time limit of submission of the application for participation, certainly not at the date of the examination. I conclude by expressing the hope that any doubts that have emerged from the press about the correctness of the conduct of the competition will be eliminated and that the facts described above will be shed as soon as possible, that if they correspond to the above, they will bring serious damage to the legitimate demands for justice and transparency, making the logics of cynic favoritism prevail, on the contrary. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u182	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-65.ana.u183	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 4 December, at 3 p.m. on the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16 p.m.
