ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 920. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteurs carried out the reports and that a question for a preliminary ruling was rejected.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u5	Mr President, we, the Brothers of Italy, are very concerned about this draft law that you have called concreteness. Ours is a nation that owes everything to our nearest institution, which is that of the Municipalities. That is why we of Brothers of Italy are concerned: we believe that the repercussions on the municipalities of this provision are really harmful. Ours is the Nation of the thousand bell towers, of the thousand patriots, of the thousand diversity that are articulated, consolidated and grow around our wonderful Municipalities. That is why we are at the side of the local administrators, the mayors, all those who live the mission of being at the side of the citizens in the municipalities, who are the outposts of civilizations closer and more identified by the citizens as the defenders of their interests. I do not know the friends of the League, with whom we also share this type of approach, even at the level of institutional scaffolding, they realize that the municipalities cannot be burdened with other bureaucracy. We have to go in the opposite direction: we have to get rid of bureaucracy, we have to get rid of our local authorities, and everyday harassment from a legislative point of view is a heavy burden on the municipalities. Landscape plan, security plan, transparency plan, anti-corruption plan: also needed another plan, the concrete plan? Among other things, think that the imaginative Core of concreteness, composed of 53 people, should even spend its time identifying a sort of - I quote - black list of the less virtuous administrations. It's another piece that no one needs. I do not want to talk about other findings such as biometric measures - my colleagues will talk about them - to punish the scourge, although certainly existing, of absenteeism in Italy. I would also like to say something about the dynamics of this finding, but the other colleagues will do so. I say that, if we wanted to speed up and go in the right direction, we would have to invest, find the resources for the generational replacement, that is indeed necessary to the public administration. There are employees in Italy who entered service in the 1950s, in the 1960s. Some do not even know how to use the computer; at most some employees know the Office package, but the technological training must be continuous, because the mechanisms in this contemporary are moving very fast. Here, on this we would have wanted to confront each other. We could not do so, so, as Brothers of Italy (which is the Group that stands alongside local administrators), we are very disappointed with the concrete measure. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u6	She's registered to speak Senator Botto. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the aim of this measure is to find concrete solutions - and I stress concrete ones - to ensure the efficiency of public administration, the immediate improvement of administrative organisation and the increase in the quality of services provided to citizens. Over the last few years, citizens and businesses have asked the public administration to act in a simple, slim, effective and active manner; they have called for swift measures at a certain time, as well as an analysis and verification of real needs, without further bureaucratic burdens. The draft law responds precisely to these needs, with measures designed to counter bad practices and make public administrations truly "glass houses," transparent, efficient and virtuous, where the citizen is able to verify the performance and quality of the services. In particular, the first article provides for the establishment, in the Department of the Civil Service, of the Core of concrete actions to improve administrative efficiency, also called "Nucleus of concreteness" which, in collaboration with the Public Service Inspectorate, will have to carry out surveys and visits to the individual administrations. With these visits you can finally verify the organisation and the proper functioning of the public administration, identifying and proposing any corrective measures with the indication of the implementation times. Non-compliance with the deadline for the implementation of corrective measures involves the inclusion of public administration in a list that will give greater responsibility to public managers, who will be more vigilant and attentive. Another strong point of the measure is the inclusion of tools to counter absenteeism in public administrations, the scourge of our country. We all know the case of the dishonest, now known with the adjective "furbet," who shows up in the right morning to pass the badge and immediately leaves and sees himself only at the end of the service to stamp the exit; or the case in which he leaves the card to a colleague, not even taking the trouble to get up in the morning; we also know of the dishonest who is surprised at the casino, in tavern, or shopping, shopping, in the gym, everywhere, but not in his place, not in his office, as if he had developed a sort of allergy to the desk and work, work that represents a public service necessary for citizenship. Sometimes the scam is limited to a single employee; in other situations, instead, more colleagues are in league for a joint scam. This happened at the customs office in Arezzo, where a criminal investigation started involving 8 employees. And again: news of November 27 is the story of a real band of 42 subjects, slaughtered in Palermo, at the council of health. According to the prosecutor, the suspects helped each other and covered each other: through the exchange of cards and the misuse of company PCs they were able systematically to attest false presences. The employees, while on duty, used to deal with private matters, such as shopping or going to the hairdresser. And I could go on for hours. It is, therefore, impossible to draw a unitary sketch of the "furbet" or, better, of the dishonest card: from North to South, from the highest institutions to the last of the public garrisons, from universities to agencies, from those who cheat in solo to those who act in cordata, with accomplices. Absenteeism is a hateful phenomenon, which strongly damages the quality of the public service, creating delays in the provision of services, unnecessary wandering in search of absent workers, understandable frustration in citizens who do not see themselves providing a service to which they are entitled and have the right to be carried out in the ways and times of a civil country. From here comes the idea of introducing biometric systems of verification of identity and video surveillance, to prevent someone from slipping the tag for others or, after stamping, leaving. As regards personal data protection profiles, the Data Protection Supervisor, with a favourable opinion of 11 October 2018, considered the use well justified by the need to verify compliance with working hours. Moreover, the measure in question provides for the total unblocking of turnovers in 2019 for central administrations, with the obligation to recruit professional figures with high skills in the field of digitisation, rationalisation and simplification of administrative processes, quality of public services, management of structural funds and investment capacity, public contracting, management control and inspection activities. We believe that innovation begins with people. Certified skills in human resources form the basis of the strategy for the renewal of public administrations. The many honest people who work hard to compensate for the shortcomings due to the deplorable behaviors we have just spoken about have the right to be raised by this unjust burden and to see the workload rebalanced and redistributed; it is right that they finally see their merit recognized, also through a system that values them, finally putting a stop to these shameful phenomena. We intend to send out a strong signal and transmit a well-perceived desire for change, that reasons the many quality resources present in our country and in the public administration to express themselves to the best, in a stimulating environment and with the injection of new and necessary skills. Only in this way can a new chapter be launched in the history of public administrations, which will finally bring us to the level of other European countries, for a change not only theoretical, but also concrete. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u8	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u9	[[Brusio.]] I would urge Members to turn their voices down considerably, because it is very difficult to follow what the speakers say.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u10	Mr President, thank you for this request and I will also be grateful to the Members who wish to accept it, reducing the buzz. My colleague, Senator Ruspandini, opened his speech by saying that the Brothers of Italy Group is concerned about the draft law in question; I add the word "indignantness" to the concern, and I will explain briefly why. As part of the draft law No 920, which lays down measures to combat absenteeism, I speak on Article 2, which provides for biometric measures for the detection of the presence of state workers. The measure provides, in fact, for the general use of biometric identification systems and video surveillance to detect attendance and respect of time. It is therefore - using a language that is no longer brutal, but more direct and sincere - of fingerprints for civil servants. I want to say it bluntly: this argument is offensive. It is a regressive instrument, in our opinion. I quote that the Brothers of Italy Group - it is clear - shares a declaration of war to the so-called smart cards, to all the "fanulloni" and to absenteeism, as well as a survey of the presences, of the respect of the times and of a sort of sense of duty and civic, moreover. However, there are automatic detection systems in progress and other instruments, as well as those proposed - in our opinion - are offensive and regressive. I would also like to say that this definition indicates computer systems to identify a person on the basis of one or more biological and behavioral characteristics - I say not, but these are the principles of biometrics - and then the data is compared with those present in a database of the system. It is interesting to remember that the biometrics were born with Bertillon, at the end of the nineteenth century, using a method of scientific identification, precisely biometric, initially used in prisons and then in the prefectures of Paris to record prisoners; this technique is subsequently put into system by the scientific police for the identification of criminals. When you read Article 2, I would like you to think about the historical and scientific origin of this method, because it falls within the definition of a regressive and offensive method. Today, by updating the technique, it is a computerized system of recognition, of measurement of biological characteristics. Well, bad: the bill does not carry the numbers to estimate the costs: we do not know how many devices would be needed, nor how much personal it would be to employ; moreover, it is expected to use the NoiPA system for some public administrations, also in this case without providing details on the adequacy of this system. Incidentally, I note that NoiPA has not yet solved the salary match of all the employees of the Defense, but let's move on. Finally, for public administrations which do not use the excellent NoiPA system, it is envisaged to use the Council Conventions, even in this case without any provision of dedicated budgets. In short, principles are stated, but the method and technical detail of the impact of the standard are missing and, above all, the necessary financial coverage to which no reference is made is missing. I would point out that we share the desire to combat absenteeism as a better way not only to punish those who make a mistake, but also to reward and protect the vast majority of public workers, who, on the other hand, carry out their work with dedication and a sense of duty and often do so under inadequate conditions. Having said that, biometric identification - using a technical term that actually means taking fingerprints from people - is something offensive to us, as evidenced by the fact that with the draft law it concreteizes - an effect name that hides something that is not right - we would legitimize a paradox. We would apply to civil servants such a strict control regime that it is not even applied - I quote just a few examples - to persons subject to restrictive measures, to persons on probation or to immigrants seeking asylum. It is therefore clear that something in the draft law under consideration, at least in its Article 2, does not go the right way. In conclusion, we believe that we cannot and should not use fingerprints. I also want to say that we cannot think of introducing a principle of registering civil servants: it is a humiliation that is done to those who every day - it is the vast majority of people - go to work with a sense of duty and passion. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] It is the humiliation of civil servants. And it makes me laugh at a paradox. I don't want to open up a question, but we live in a country where there is a black hole in identities and we go and ask the civil servants, for which there are already automatic detection systems. To make a final joke, in this country with the black hole of identities and where you want to humiliate public employees, instead of finding systems - and there are - to correct a defect where it nests and instead of educating and correcting a minority, we go to punish a majority that is the positive one, the one that goes to work with a sense of duty. There's a beautiful phrase from a Frenchman who said he was coming from a generation who went to work singing. Today, unfortunately, no one sings going to work. However, let us not humiliate those who do their duty every day. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u11	Senator Pizzol is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u12	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us today contains in its name the objective it aims to achieve, namely the effectiveness and efficiency of public administration; a public administration capable of responding promptly to the demands and needs of citizens and to their service. It provides for a reorganization of the public machinery through various measures, from the reform of the management, to biometric controls in anti-robberies of the card, to bureaucratic simplification. The will is to extend good practices by combining rigour and rewards, as well as making administrative action faster and more secure for the benefit of the country and its citizens. The measure consists of six articles, but the heart of the reform for efficient public administration is contained in the first two. Article 1, in fact, provides for the establishment of the Core of concrete actions to improve administrative efficiency, called the Core of concreteness, which will have to comply with the three-year plan prepared by the Department of Public Service, with the aim of ensuring the correct application of the provisions on the organization and functioning of public administrations and the compliance of administrative activity with the principles of impartiality and good performance; and of implementing the efficiency of public administrations, with indication of the times for their implementation of corrective actions. In order to carry out its function, the Core will use 53 staff units and will work in collaboration with the Public Service Inspectorate, carrying out surveys and visits to the individual administrations and proposing any corrective measures with the indication of the implementation times. Failure to implement the measures will result in management and disciplinary responsibility of the managers and the registration of the administration in a special black list. The criticism of an overlap and/or duplication between the core and the Public Service Inspectorate seems to us rather instrumental, since the Core of concreteness, rather, serves to implement the structures of the public administration already existing identifying the criticalities and indicating the remedies. No less important are the measures contained in Article 2 to combat absenteeism, which we believe should be punished with sanctions, but before that it must be prevented and avoided. While in some public offices employees work without motivation it is also because, sometimes, they have to pay for the work of the absenteeist colleague, which causes them a sense of frustration and impotence. It is right and proper to protect and reward the many civil servants, for good and honest, who do their duty, while it is necessary to punish firmly those who take advantage of it. There are too many reports of employees who in working hours were shopping, playing tennis or who knows where, while complacent colleagues stamped in their place. Suffice it to mention the eclating case of Sanremo, in October 2015, with 196 employees involved out of about 400 employees or that of the Neapolitan hospital Loreto Mare, in February 2017, which saw 94 people investigated and 55 reached by a protective custody order. Absenteeism is a widespread scourge because most public workers feel quiet, protected from the fixed place and consequently inclined to take their own business. There is also a sort of shame in the offices, with complacent colleagues or forced to please because, as Mr Bongiorno said, it is difficult to denounce his colleague because he has to live with it. Not to mention the distracted leaders because, as the Minister himself said, on several occasions the manager can escape the unjustified sporadic absence but not the chronic one. The introduction of biometric control systems is functional to the need to create deterrents to prevent the phenomenon of chronic absenteeism, cutting it off at the root, simultaneously giving a strong signal of solidarity to the correct employee and a message that the parcel ended up at the smart card. No less important is Article 4, which makes the draft law a measure linked to budgetary maneuvering. After years of blocking, first total and then partial of the assumptions, justified by logic of spending review but that in fact has had disastrous consequences, especially for those sectors with strong shortage of staff, helping to increase the precariousness in the public administration, is previewed the total release of the turnover in 2019 with targeted assumptions. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In particular, recruitment is expected to be within 100 per cent of the previous year's expenditure, thus opening up the possibility of hiring more people than those exits, provided that the previous year's expenditure limit is exceeded. The competitions will be used but also, in order to speed up the times, the slide of the rankings. It will focus on skills in digitisation, simplification of administrative procedures but also in the management of structural funds and public contractual arrangements. A large recruitment plan that will lead to a significant generational shift in public administration. On the basis of the data of the State Accounting Office, in the next three years the outgoing civil servants, thanks also to the mechanism of the so-called " 100 quota" that the League will implement in the coming months, could reach 450,000 units, about 150,000 per year, which, with the consequent release of the hirings, will mean about 450,000 new jobs for our young people. On behalf of the Lega-Salvini Premier Group, I hope that these rules will be widely shared and that the measure will be approved quickly. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u13	She's registered to speak Senator Minuto. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u14	Mr President, this measure addresses the problem of public administration from the wrong point of view. I say this to you, Minister Bongiorno, as a senator elected in a region of the Mezzogiorno. As you know, the South provides a lot of human resources to the public administration and expects a concrete recruitment plan that was initially outlined in the recruitment plan provided for by the budget law and now, unevenly, I would say almost messy, by this bill. There are about 28,000 recruitments that should affect public administration in the next three years. Among these the Police Forces, Carabinieri, Guardia di Finanza, Police penitentiary but also fire department, the Ministries of Interior, Justice, Environment and Cultural Heritage, the labour inspectorate and also the school and university, sectors that alone should absorb about 12,000 jobs. And we are especially pressured by targeted recruitment in the field of South health, which often comes to the chronicles for negative episodes, not only because of the lack of medical staff, but also because of organizational deficiencies. Minister, the Mezzogiorno has a plan of hospital reordering that makes water from all sides; you cannot think of simply letting the Regions manage the plan of reordering: you have to intervene, because the Region does absolutely nothing and in the meantime hospitals close and people die. The Mezzogiorno cannot be merely a public administration. We are aware that the ratio of civil servants to total workers is 1 to 7. The South calls for concrete measures to fill those other jobs, which are in the statistics of the Italian average, but which are not in the South. Those 28,000 expected recruitments therefore compare with 578,000 young people in the South without a job. If those 28,000 places were all to go to the boys of the Mezzogiorno, we must think that another 550,000 would remain unemployed. The new recruitments, the sliding of the rankings, the new competitions cannot become a sort of state raffle. The measures of this bill, which burden, rather than lighten, the recruitment mechanism, must be changed. Measures for recruitment should only be taken after a detailed survey of actual staff needs. There are areas where there is a great need for staff - as I said before, health care, school - and others which already have enough. We expect measures that concern staff in public structures and measures that concern the rest of the economy in the South, which cannot be just social aid. In the South, the percentage of recruitment in employment centres is 2%. I would like to stress that there are no employment centres here, because there is no infrastructure and therefore no job opportunities for the people of the Mezzogiorno. There are about 600,000 families living in poverty in the South. The income of citizenship, as well as the income of inclusion, must be a subsidy given in the presence of a society that has full employment and must be activated only for those percentages, which must be very low and physiological, of persons temporarily unemployed. Minister, I started as a city councilwoman at the age of 19 and became a city councilman at the age of 22. I can assure you that when I started I was very much in favour of what we call citizenship income today; I started because I thought and hoped that, helping it in that way, the people of my territory would be better. But - alas - as I grew up and over the years I had to repent and realized that we would have to employ those people in different activities.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u15	I invite you to conclude, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u16	MINUTE (FI-BP). We invented socially useful workers and immediately after construction sites, because work means dignity. Firstly, because every public place has a cost to the private sector (citizens and businesses); secondly, because this takes away resources from investment and the private sector, which means growing development and economy. It is not enough to replace a young man with a pensioner. That's not how the economy works. Serious politics wants to give opportunities for growth and wealth. Also because those recruitments, distributed on the national territory, where even the competitions are won by the boys of the South, would end up creating new immigrants from the South to the other Regions. The Mezzogiorno, on the other hand, needs to find solutions to access finance capable, at last, of creating a real structural development, involving, that is, a broader fabric, that lead to the exploitation of resources and the creation of wealth. We expected initiatives to speed up and simplify procedures for access to European funds. Even here, Minister, we have so many funds in the Mezzogiorno that come from the European Community that are not exploited, either because of inability, or because of distraction, and in the end they come back. As President Tajani said a long time ago, we must create a South Development Fund, put together the Juncker plan, the plan of the European banks, in order to make the most of the funds that reach the Mezzogiorno, create infrastructure and, consequently, employment. We hope that, also for the public administration of the South, the problem is not only to identify the smart cards, but to entrust new tasks of service to the rest of the citizens of the South (including through mobility) who do not have the privilege of having a public salary. We call for the human resources of the Mezzogiorno to be exploited as they deserve... Senator Minuto, I'm gonna have to ask you to finish. MINUTE (FI-BP). I'm finishing, ma'am. We call for the human resources of the Mezzogiorno to be exploited as they deserve and to do so using existing financial resources and which are often wasted or lost. For the South, for example, we have the PON Governance, which makes available 780 million from the European Social Fund in the European Fund for the Development of the Regions: they are resources aimed primarily at the least developed regions and serve for a better organisation of the public administration of the South. By organising and training better managers and employees of the public administration and local authorities of the Mezzogiorno, these will certainly be able to obtain other European funding. In this way, we will have a ruling class able to better grasp and use even the national resources that are often misused. In short, the South can no longer be the reservoir of votes of politics that frees with early retirements of 100 and provides public places. The Mezzogiorno must become a place of full employment, where a well-trained, serious and conscious public leadership accompanies the development of the territories and the creation of real wealth and employment. [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u17	She is registered to speak Senator Piarulli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before the electoral mandate, I was for over twenty years a prison manager at the top of a complex structure, such as prison, belonging to a public administration, as well as a lawyer. I can only appreciate this legislation, which from the outset shows its practicality and practicality. It is not by chance that the Institute of the Core of concreteness must have propulsive functions of support to the manager to which will be indicated any corrective actions. The online advertising of the results of the visits made by this Core from which the failure of the same manager to adapt to the indications given by the Core itself may emerge, will help to avoid the repetition of unlegitimate conducts and mutual legitimate and virtuous ones. In the event of non-compliance, the manager shall respond in a disciplined manner, on the understanding that he must be placed in a position to achieve concrete results with specific appropriations relating to human and instrumental resources. In this respect it is very important to unblock recruitment, ensuring turnover in the public administration, since you cannot think of running such an articulated machine without funds, equipment and personnel. It is therefore important to draw also from the existing rankings, but above all to ensure a generational, targeted and quality replacement, highlighting new professional figures that can bring to completion the process of dematerialization and digitization, hiring experts in computer science, in public contracts, in management control, through staff who must have a role of inclusion with the other existing staff. We are all aware of the countless episodes of news that attest to one of the plagues of public administration, that is, the serious conduct of false attestations in service. Therefore, it is considered more appropriate, both for citizens and for other employees, to provide for more sophisticated and time-appropriate forms of control, as well as biometric identity verification systems, which are also recognised by the Privacy Supervisor, as well as the installation of video surveillance devices (with appropriate precautions), which will certainly not have to become a persecutory tool. It is a law to protect the many virtuous civil servants who, because of dishonest colleagues (the so-called smart cards), are unjustly accused and branded as idlers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Iannone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the draft law called concreteness to me seems more the draft law approximation, because it is clear that it does not go in the direction, on the one hand, of effectively combating the pathological aspects of the public employment and, on the other hand, of rewarding the virtuous representatives of the public administrations, real and serious professionals who have chosen to serve the State when they would also have the possibility of managerial employment within private initiatives, with pay certainly more than those paid in the public employment. We say it peremptoryly: Brothers of Italy is for a struggle without neighborhood to absenteeism, at all levels. We must even start with the parliamentary classrooms if we are to be credible. However, we do not believe that we can harm the dignity of those who do their duty every day, without going to have a real impact on the so-called idlers, who rightly generate the indignation of Italian citizens, because, in a country in which the unemployment rate is very high (especially in the Mezzogiorno), those who are lucky enough to have a job must do the best they can and their responsibilities. But this certainly cannot label an entire section of the state, creating in the citizens a general perception of opposition to the public administration. I am going into the substance of the draft law's forecasts, to state what I have said. If one thinks that, with a nucleus of 53 people (the Core of concreteness), one can control an elephant machine which is the Italian public administration, then it is absolutely obvious and there is no need to bother Monsieur Lapalisse to say that this will be an empty attempt. As far as biometric identification is concerned, we have thus set up a strong distortion. As my colleague, Senator Rauti, said, let us identify in a very invasive way people representing the State, when they are not identified even those subject to restrictive measures, such as probation, and migrants seeking asylum. We must console ourselves with what is not provided for within the bill, because - my goodness - it was considered not to apply this system of identification to our representatives of the Forces of Order, who would in some way be equated with the criminals to whom they must hunt. I want to point out to the Government that we hope, even if the bill refers to a decision of the Ministry of Education, that the teaching staff will also be spared from this decision, because up to now the teachers have not even had the badge (the problem of absenteeism in teaching is really very marginal), but above all it would be a measure that would further damage the authority of the teacher figure and at this moment of particular social sensitivity is absolutely not the case. On the other hand, as regards the plan that would be imposed on administrations, we fear that it is just another plan, such as those for transparency, security and anti-corruption, that is, an incredible burden that would have a further impact on the work of the public administration, with the use of resources and time to deliver results that were, in the case of the other plans, very modest. The measures to speed up targeted recruitment and generational replacement are good, because we need human capital within public administrations that is ready and responsive to meet the new challenges, that is formed to give faster and more concrete answers, but we have to do so - whoever has been local administrator well knows - that the civil servants (officials, executives) continue to collaborate with the administrators, that is with those who have been chosen by the citizens to administer, because otherwise, if this pact breaks, the country will be completely out of control. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alfonso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u22	Mr President, I feel very involved in this issue on the agenda. I have tried to study as a student, not as a scholar, the themes of public administration over twenty years (and it is not the twenty years that has been historicized, but the twenty years of my commitment as a public decision-maker) and I have been able to link also the ambitious wording of this legislative initiative, which has as its last name "concreteness" and I have historically found that in another circumstance this statement was used: in 1955 a magazine was born, a political fifteen-year-old called "Concreteness" and was the official organ of a current of Christian Democracy named Spring. At the time the need was taxation, to be made certain as a rule [[Applause from Senator Ferrari]] It seems to me that in this case the need is the quality and quantity of the performance of the public administration. I have much respect and esteem - if I could afford I would say that I have sympathy - for the ability to work as lawyer Bongiorno's lawyer. I will speak as if you were here, because I have read what you said, I have read the legislative initiative carefully and I would say that I know at least 51% of your thinking on the difficult subject of public administration. The limit I find in relation to the initiative we are examining is that it addresses marginal, not fundamental, issues that are of significance, but are not the central part of the issue of public administration. There is the issue of biometrics, regarding the physical control - allow me - of the official and even of the manager who must enter the workspace of the public administration. Since 1970 there has been a great reflection in Italy on the measurement of the performance of the public administration: Massimo Severo Giannini began, the trio Gaspari, Ciaffi, Quaranta took care of it, Sabino Cassese from his part and I believe it is unattainable, for knowledge and for the ability to result. Then Franco Frattini took care of it, with less results, the couple Renato Brunetta and Marianna Madia and now it is the turn of Minister Bongiorno. The issue of measuring the quantity and quality of public administration does not coincide and does not end with the control of physical presence: it only crosses it, but it does not end in it. Sabino Cassese, for example, posed the theme of workloads. The workload is a category of the organization of the public administration, which has been engaging in reflection even doctrinal for decades, to ensure that the worker of the public administration is not imprisoned in his physicality, but even freed, to ensure that he does as much as possible. It is the delay in its performance the theme to be posed, not the delay of its physical access. I therefore want to reconcile the speeches that have been made, since the place where we are talking resembles the places that Mr Bongiorno knows and there is also the dialogue and the contradictory. I have taken notes from the speeches of my party colleagues, but also from other parties. For example, I took note of the intervention of Vasco Errani, who recalled that today the topic that arises in the public administration is that of the availability of the sole managers of the procedure (RUP), of the directors of the works and of people who are able to introduce digitalization in the contractual, for the aggregate demand for purchases of goods and services. There is a need, for example, to go beyond the stage of technical assistance from the outside, which has led to a chronic inability to make public administration. There is a need for a great training dispute in favour of public administration and also for the training school of public administration to be central, so that it does not become the place for those who have not made it, but it is the place to really make concrete. Concreteness means proportionality, invenibility, effectiveness and materiality. I then put a question to Mr Bongiorno, to whom I now declare not only my professional sympathy, but also my admiration for his successes in the courtrooms: for me success in the face of criminal law is worth a lot, because it means freedom. So I would like to ask Minister Bongiorno a question: how do we relate the public administration, which has 3,400,000 human resources, and the repeated legislative revolution, which concerns for example the legal order, the Special Economic Zones (SEZs) and the extra-ordinam figures, who are responsible for managing the ways in which tragedies are overcome? There we have to conceive figures who are capable of complicating themselves to these new phases of the way of being of public administration. Attention, what is written is not useless. I also want to question whether it can be improved, but I think that we need much more. The legislative initiative on public administration is the third phase, after the document of economy and finance, after the decree-tax law. This concern and concern are included, this regulatory forecast to ensure that the budget then finds itself in a capacity of human resources capable of ensuring that decisions center the objectives. We must do absolutely more and more in depth, knowing that the human resources of the public administration are the only ones that allow us to achieve the objectives. This means: economy, growth, more jobs and even more opportunities for those who have a life plan to improve themselves and the territory. I would like to see the impetus that Italy needs not be exhausted on this initiative. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u23	Senator Nisini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u24	Mr President, Minister Bongiorno, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are debating today, and the action taken by the public administrations and the prevention of absenteeism, stems from the need to improve and make the administrative machinery more efficient through simplification, support and contract for absenteeism. Already the term "concreteness" should communicate the clear and specific objective of the measure under consideration, which is why I am sure that the approval by this House will not fail. I would like to focus on Article 1, which brings a new and important novelty: the establishment of the Core of concreteness. As already stated in the Commission, it is in fact a tutor who will go to support public administrations in difficulty, spreading models of the most advanced and virtuous administrations, and will also have the role of accompanying small realities in the processes of modernization and digitisation. In my view, criticism of overlaps and duplications by the Core of Concreteness, which has well-defined tasks with respect to the Public Service Inspectorate, makes no sense. And for the tranquility of all oppositions, the Core concreteness is not a subject controller, but a new organism that will give concrete solutions to the critical issues raised by the Inspectorate. All this is in fact put in black and white within the article just mentioned. I have heard, always from the oppositions, many roboating criticisms of the costs of these measures, but at the same time I have heard a deafening silence about the damages also economic that absenteeism creates to the country and to the citizens. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Colleagues, I expected no one to dispute that the efficiency of the administrative machinery starts precisely from the contrast to absenteeism; instead a part of this House has done so. The oppositions in the Commission have severely criticized and tried to disassemble Article 2, with the tabling of amendments which were in fact going to drastically lighten the measures taken by this Government. We have said no and have said so with the conviction that absenteeism is not a phenomenon to be minimized and underestimated, but a phenomenon to be countered. Perhaps that is the problem for them, but absenteeism is for this Government the evil of public administration, and it is for two sets of reasons: firstly, because the smart cards are paid with public money; secondly, the fight against absenteeism is an act due to those workers who, with a sense of duty, go to the workplace every day. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Measures such as video surveillance and the use of biometric data, topics dealt with in Article 2, serve precisely to detect access to the workplace of employees, without harming their privacy, but protecting the sacred principle of fairness and fairness vis-à-vis all those who, on the other hand, regularly and convincingly go to the workplace and who, moreover, have no opposition to the introduction of biometric surveys. No persecutory action against anyone: we must protect citizens and honest workers, not the famous smart cards. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] They then compared the concrete measure to the Big Brother of Orwell. Don't worry, it's something else. In the society that Orwell describes, each individual is kept under constant control by the authorities. This government does so only at the entrances and - I repeat - the workers thank well, because they are tired of being put on the same footing as the idlers. I remember, in fact, ladies and gentlemen, that in the Italian municipalities employees are absent from work on average fifty days a year, but there is no shortage of reality at the limit of absurdity. Just think of the Municipality of Locri, 12,000 inhabitants, whose employees have packaged an average absence of one hundred days a year. Then there is the Magdalene, with eighty-seven days of absence, or Terracina, with eighty days: these are only a few examples. That is what we firmly want to say. No more absenteeism; no more waste of public money. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] And I'm not just telling you this as a member of the 11th Commission; I'm also telling you this as an administrator of a provincial capital. I also express further and strong support for the provisions aimed at encouraging recruitment, which public administrations desperately need, and I very much welcome the fact that specific professionalism is given priority in turnover. Italy needs a different public administration. The overall contraction since 2008 is 7.2 per cent, equal to 246,187 people leaving public administrations and not replaced. The Italian public administration remains elderly, undersized and poorly qualified. On this the decree concretely intervenes with Article 4, which is to compensate for the shortcomings, or rather, the shortcomings of the governments that preceded us, through the recruitment of permanent staff, with a turnover of 100 per cent, with targeted recruitment and aimed at young specialized in digitization, rationalization and simplification of administrative processes and procedures, as well as in the quality of public services. The average age of civil servants is fifty-two years and the under-five staff is 2 percent of public employees. What we say loudly is yes to recruitment and yes to generational replacement. I was very sorry to hear at the hearing, just from some workers' representatives, mere political interventions and few constructive comments. Luckily not everyone, be it clear, but by the usual known. I have heard of political inability and populist actions. Contrast absenteeism is populism? Yes, I am proud to be populist. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Then hearing an opposition senator in the Commission humiliating on the names of our measures was demeaning; on concreteness, as well as on security, but I understand that. I understand that because its political part is far from light years and is part of their modus operandi, because when they ruled they were distant from both the public administrations and the problem of the security of our citizens. Concreteness and security are being asked of us by the citizens, those who no longer believe in previous governments, fortunately, but have given us the mandate to carry out their demands. I am going to conclude, referring also to Article 5, which contains provisions on food stamps. I would like to reiterate, for those who have not understood it, that these provisions relate exclusively to public administrations. I say this because yesterday I heard a colleague attacking the Government and the majority, because public exercises were not included in this measure. So, if the law and codes are not an opinion, the public administration is one thing, while private entrepreneurship - and I repeat private - is something else. Being accessible to the public doesn't mean being public. I understand that the word "public" may have deceived her, but this provision speaks of something else. The measure, in conclusion, is an important instrument by which the character of the public administration is finally changed, providing structures and measures to support the leaders in the fight against the myriad of smart people who want to benefit at the expense of public finances, to the detriment of honest citizens, and facilitating the entry of young people into the world of work. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u25	On behalf of the Assembly, we greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education Emanuele Duni-Carlo Levi in Matera, who attend our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u26	She is registered to speak Senator Tiraboschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u27	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to try to make an additional thought with regard to the draft law, so as not to repeat what I heard this morning in this House, particularly in the speeches of the two Members of this House, Mr Minuto and Mr Toffanin. The latter, above all, as a minority rapporteur, has been very precise and precise in its analysis. Reading this measure, I was struck, Minister, by your ability to do communicative editing. I refer to the term "concreteness" of the actions of the public administration, which immediately refers the thought to the corporate organizations, of which it is typical. Public administration is, as it provides public services, and like all organizations, starting from the top manager, passing to the employee, ending to the worker and the operator, it should be managed mainly with common sense, trying to achieve also the maximum efficiency, effectiveness and productivity of the administrative action. All the terms I have seen have been using for at least thirty years, since the 1990s, when I started my professional career in the public administration. It is true, however, that we have come today to have a public administration that is inefficient, ineffective and unproductive. This is because human, financial and technological resources have not been coordinated by managers among themselves, through processes geared towards achieving concrete and measurable objectives. What would I have expected of you, Minister, who is a person of whom I have great esteem, as a criminal lawyer, but who I do not know if you have a professional profile as a manager accustomed to organizing large complex structures, which is the public administration? I would have expected a series of interventions and addresses on the factors of success of an organization: the choice of the most appropriate organizational structure; the correct size of resources within a structure; the management of processes; the standardisation of physical and information flows; the rules of coordination between resources, of which the various departments of the ministries and, in general, of the public administration really need; the management of workloads; the analysis and removal of constraints and of all limitations; the control of performance and the mechanisms of measurement and incentive; the systems of communication and reporting, as well as the processes of continuous improvement. In every successful organizational reality, each of these variables, Minister, becomes the subject of review and redesign according to the changes, the results achieved and the goals that are to be achieved. You could tell me that these considerations of mine have a too private profile. Instead, I tell you that principles and methods that are used to set up an organization correctly do not change when the type of organization changes, whether private or public, or that it erodes goods or services. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] What must change, Minister, is the management of this public administration. Today the needs for change are very rapid, also because of the speed of technological innovation, which risks to overwhelm an organization, if it does not intervene upstream on people, through their increased involvement and motivation, in their activities, through simplification processes, and in skills, through continuous and continuous training programs. You think that today, because of digitalization, any guy who leaves the university cannot be considered trained for life. So let us welcome the recruitment of young people, but set up an important training programme! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Go put the money there. Minister, have you considered the impact of the EUR 35 million you invest in video surveillance systems and other systems that I do not want to talk about, in terms of effectiveness, efficiency and productivity? In the cost-benefit assessment analyses, which today are so fashionable in this Government, because the resources are much smaller than in the past, have you looked at the repercussions that these 35 million euros will have on those investments, rather than on training? Minister, I would have expected a transition from the culture of only respect for the norm, which is widespread, to a culture of data. The figure is very important in the public administration and is not yet properly put into place, elected by management. This figure, if properly analysed, would allow major changes to be introduced into the organisational context. I shall resume my speech and begin to conclude. Minister, I am talking about a more adaptive governance model, better suited to facing the challenges of the future and the changes and not already of a traditional and conventional governance model, which you have set up with a managerial short-sightedness. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We must realise this and we will all realize it by seeing that progress is not going to come. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romagnoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Minister, the bill that we are examining and discussing today is the classic act that comes from the citizen's breath. I use these words because the topic on which the bill is centered stems from a situation that has crossed the country for decades in the field of public administration. The first key concept that makes this measure necessary is the inefficiency of public administration, on which - unfortunately - we could write encyclopedias. On this we have become famous in the world, important directors have shot films and famous television broadcasts have made a fortune denouncing behaviors that we can safely define uncivilized and certainly not adapted to the glorious cultural, civil and social history of our country. First of all, we must be aware of the situation in which we have ended up and analyse why we have reached such a state of negative perception of public administration by citizens (in fact, perception is absolutely justified by the facts). And it is the citizens, especially the most fragile ones, who suffer the most negative consequences of the rampant miscostume that has now passed through public administration for decades. Analyzing, however, does not mean stopping here, but getting into the heart of the problem and acting, and that is precisely what the draft law does concretely. Following this logic we can talk about the second key concept that characterizes the measure, that is, courage, because we are going to face an age-old problem without hesitation, with concrete and very incisive measures. In this regard, we can immediately mention the measures affecting absenteeism. The bill, like many times in the past in such cases, could be limited to floating, with a series of useless norms for practical and good purposes only to avoid creating discontent and humor. But courage is what distinguishes our political action, that of the Government of Change, and the real reason why millions of citizens have decided to put their trust in us. Having no courage would mean betraying the citizens, all of them, regardless of their political ideal. This means thinking about the good of the country to try to make it better. In this sense, measures such as the general application of in-service presence detection systems based on biometric identity verification systems may seem exaggerated, but to say this means that we want to remain anchored in the old way of action of politics, that of complacency, inefficiency and immobility, with consequent decline in concreteness. We are different, we want to say it aloud, especially with concrete acts and the draft law concrete interprets perfectly this energetic and renewing spirit. Also in this direction, there are the rules that provide for measures to ensure cooperation between the Core of concreteness and the prefective authority, establishing that the latter can report to the Core any irregularities of the administrative action of the local authorities and ask for its intervention. With this spirit we can talk about the third key concept, that is to go further. The draft law is not limited to tackling and punishing the so-called absenteeist worker, but looks much further, aiming to protect most of the workers of the public administration, the honest ones, who every day carry out their duty to the full, with criterion and self-denial, just those who, unfortunately, in the end are penalized by the misconception of the minority. Against this majority of workers the draft law intervenes with concrete measures, such as the provision of funds intended for the ancillary economic treatment of public contracted staff. Again on the concept of going further, we can refer to another fundamental intervention of the draft law concreteness, that provided for in Article 4, introducing measures to accelerate recruitment aimed at the generational turnover of the public administration. It provides for the possibility for State administrations, including autonomously regulated, non-economic public agencies and bodies, to engage in permanent recruitment, thus allowing, on the one hand, to cover all posts vacant in the previous year and, on the other hand, to reduce the average age of employees, through the entry of new professionalism. These measures will result in a more rational planning of public administration needs and new jobs for our young people. The fourth key concept concerns productivity and modernisation, with the establishment, in the Department of the Public Service, of the core of concrete actions to improve administrative efficiency, the so-called concrete core, which will be responsible for the detection, including through the carrying out of specific surveys, of the state and of the procedures for the implementation of positions on the organization and functioning of public administrations, and the identification of any corrective actions. With the draft law, therefore, our path continues to give our country the hope of a better future, to the height of its history, with strong solutions, for an Italy that is based on merit, honesty and correctness. But if the measure will give concreteness and innovation to the public administration, in order to give support to both honest workers and citizens of our country, the cultural turning point of all citizens will be fundamental and face the future with new eyes and great heart to move towards a real change. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u30	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator De Vecchis.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u31	Mr President, I have listened carefully to all the speeches and I can say with certainty that this is a draft law of concreteness, because we are talking about the fight against absenteeism, recruitment, the fight against precariousness, stabilizations An important and, Minister, even courageous measure because, finally, with biometric controls, we are going to bring important changes to what are the references of an entire public administration, of all those honest people, of all those workers - most of them - that every day they produce for our cities, for our political actions, and not only. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I want to say it for sure. After years of plastering, we are carrying out a very important intervention, namely the generational change. The center-left, which criticizes our maneuver, has cast public administration for years. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] You did. And we are pursuing, with the Government of change, initiatives aimed at improving both the working conditions but also, and above all, the productive activities towards all the free citizens of Italy as a whole. Public administration, in fact, serves the whole of Italy. We are the Government of Change: we are carrying it forward with force and we will move forward. I renew my congratulations to President Catalfo, Minister Bongiorno and the Commission as a whole. Come on, with courage and strength, for change! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u32	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Parente.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u33	Mr President, I do not intend to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u34	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Toffanin.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u35	Mr President, let us reiterate the concepts already set out yesterday. This is a bill that does not have a concrete organic view of the machinery of public administration. We reiterate that for turnover, in order to create new jobs for young people, the real needs of the entire public administration sector must first of all be clear. We also reiterate that we are quite clear, also with regard to Article 5 on food vouchers, that these are not public establishments, in the sense of public administration, but that, in fact, a proposal for private individuals, in these which are however heterogeneous measures, could stand there and be of support to those who are really in difficulty. Therefore, we reiterate that this measure was to be a measure with a more far-sighted vision and, above all, it had to follow the already announced bill on simplification, because you cannot really start from above to get to the bottom. We have the honesty not to put the administrations in difficulty with further obligations because this, in fact, is what is happening, but to give really answers for an efficiency of the public administration that, we repeat, becomes essential for the community; in fact, to a public machine that works corresponds to the operation of the whole private sector and means giving really useful answers to all citizens. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u36	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u37	Mr President, allow me to thank the President of the 11th Commission, Senator Catalfo, rapporteur De Vecchis and my Undersecretary for the work they have done with extreme diligence and above all with passion, because each of them told me that he has lived this measure even with interior adherence to some of the principles he is inspired by. I know that my action has been very much criticized for the name. You didn't like the name "concreteness." I could have done something different and behaved like so many ministers who decide to call their own law with their own surname. Perhaps it would have been nicer to say "Bongiorno provision," to be remembered forever as the owner of a measure, but I wanted to call it "concreteness" precisely because, in my opinion, laws must not identify with a person. It seemed much more correct to give a name that referred to the principle that inspired me. A fact with which we must confront ourselves - and I say this for all those who have spoken of this as a measure that does not give useful and concrete results - is the unevenness within the public administration. Such unevenness is so strong that it legitimizes the use of pluralism: we should talk about public administrations. In fact, alongside fast, digitized and extremely efficient realities, there are many others that are behind, that are in trouble and that think that digitisation is an obstacle and not an opportunity. I've moved on from this heterogeneity. In the face of a situation of unevenness, any general and abstract law would have no kind of result. I decided then to put in place a Core of concreteness. Someone asked what this core was for since the inspectorate already exists. The laws governing the inspectorate have probably not been carefully read, because inefficiency does not necessarily result from illegality or the consumption of crimes. The inspectorate, like the prosecutor of the Republic, intervenes when there are real violations, when there are illegalities, when there are crimes consumed. Well, my measure doesn't take this into account. I think it's made clear. I understand that oppositions make oppositions, but I invite you to read what the Core of concreteness has to do. The Core of concreteness intervenes precisely where there is that organizational inability that the inspectorate absolutely cannot fill with own interventions. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] There is currently a regulatory gap that is filled with the core of the concreteness that will serve as a tutor to situations in distress. I heard someone ask what these problems might be. I have listened to many local administrators of the League, but also to speeches by other parliamentarians that I may not know: you highlighted them in your speeches. I know that to my Ministry, since I settled, requests for help from all the administrative realities existing in Italy, to interpret laws that are not clear, because there are problems of poor management of human resources or on the discipline of economic treatment or in the matter of absences, expectations, mobility: all issues that ask us to resolve. But my ministry cannot go to the territorial realities and explain how to make a attendance register. And they ask us every day; your representatives on the territories ask us to send someone to explain the rule on self-certification. Do you know that there are officials in Italy who feel that they do not apply the self-certification rule, who respond to citizens who feel more secure in obtaining official certification? It is not a question of feeling safer: if there is a rule, it must be applied, if it is necessary to clarify it, we will come and give it to you. There are realities that do not have organizational models and other realities, that I have known, with efficient organizational models, extraordinary. They came to the Ministry and suggested that I bring these organizational models to the realities in distress. But it is not the task of the Ministry: it needs a Core, that takes these organizational models, extraordinarily effective, and explain them, lend them to the realities in distress. Either we put it to the head that the country for now has a big gap to bridge, or Italy doesn't go anywhere. The Core of concreteness also serves to bridge this gap. I address all those who referred to the problems of the South. This provision also serves those realities in distress. To conclude, those who ask what the Core of concreteness is for must be given this answer: it serves to disseminate good practices. To those who ask if it serves, I answer: they ask us every day. To those who ask when we will simplify, I respond clearly and clearly: this is an example of concrete simplification, they go there and simplify. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] I was amazed by a series of criticisms of biometric controls. Above all, I was amazed by the criticisms which based the reasoning on the fact that this would be excessive measures compared to a misconception. I categorically refuse to think that the misuse of the card is a misdemeanor: it is a crime. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S groups, and from Senator Unterberger.]] Let's be clear. It's a felony. It's the felony of aggravated fraud. I have heard that, however, it would be a little excessive to check. When a rule is made, a balance is clearly applied, the famous balance of justice, with two plates; there is no rule in which two goods should not be balanced. The famous balance of justice must verify on two plates what weighs the most. I ask you, then, in view of the interest in confidentiality and privacy, which we will put on the plate of the balance, do you consider more or less prevalent the interest of the absentee's office colleague, who every day goes to the office diligently and must do the work for himself and for the other? Do you think that in this balance of interests the interest in privacy or the interest of the community should prevail, which pays the services with taxes and also pays the activity of the absentee? You must always consider that there is no rule that should not make a choice between protected goods. It is clear that privacy and confidentiality are protected goods, but you must balance them with other goods. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] For me the good that must prevail is the correctness of those who enter the office. This is the good that must prevail. I would like to remind you that when I settled down I immediately had the Finance Guard and the inspectorate carry out checks and inspections because I wanted to understand the phenomenon and, above all, the extent of it. I also asked a question. I asked if it was possible to introduce different measures, but with the same result and I thought, at first, that we could simply put cameras. Do you know what the results were when I asked to investigate the phenomenon and that is if it was possible to achieve the same result simply with cameras? I was told that when there are cameras in front of the entry post, the employee puts a box in the head and uses the tag for two with the box in the head, so it is not recognized and also scams the State. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Please read the judgments of the Supreme Court and the reports on this matter. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Mr Laus (PD). Where are we? MALPEZZI (PD). How many are there? Mr Ferrari (PD). An army! BONGIORNO, Minister for Public Administration. When you ask me how many of them are there, I say that we have a legal duty to intervene in the face of a crime. If only one! With regard to the problem that is raised about those who can be these unfaithful employees, I respond with great clarity. The phenomenon that comes out is only and exclusively, of course, the one that emerges and that is identified by the Finance Guard and the controls. However, there is a way to understand whether and how deep the phenomenon is. Very often when these are identified which you define as practices, but which for me are not such, a very important fact is also found, neglected by oppositions. Chronicity: absences are not occasional. Surveys show that there are even offices where absences last five, six, ten years. This means that it is a phenomenon, as well as serious, chronic; it means that in a public administration exhausted and without staff, because for years it has been cut, what there is halved if half, as has been proven in many processes, does not enter work. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from the PD Group]] Moreover, for a long time no one has made measures which I actually consider to be the heart of the measure. I have heard that in the end we deal with marginal things; at the end of the day prints, not fingerprints, what is the great news? Assuming that I am proud of the rule on biometric controls (proud!), I believe that the heart of the provision is another. It is very easy to cut off public administration because thanks to the reputation it has, if I went on television to say that I had cut off the slackers, I would earn a lot of approval and votes for the League. But our goal was not to gain consensus, but to do what is right. I remember that not only have they not been hired for years, but there has been a shifter cut. I hear everyone's been on 100% turnover. Attention, turnover is a norm; in the last three years you happen to know every 100 employees who left, how many did they enter? 25. So in the last three years the turnover was 25%. What's the big news? We could have cut once again, as previous governments have done. We have made a great choice: we do not cut on staff, we do not cut on public administration, we invest. The turnover is 100%, and go and read in the budget what there is: extraordinary hirings. Never had such a rule been made in conjunction with the rule in the budget law. This is a very important political choice. BELLANOVA (PD). Bravo! BONGIORNO, Minister for Public Administration. I didn't expect massive hiring to put people behind desks; I don't care to put people behind desks. There is a clear indication in the measure of the strategic areas in which to assume: digitisation, simplification, quality of services, management of the Structural Funds. When we complain at the end of the year because the deadlines for using the Structural Funds have expired, we may not wonder why these deadlines expire; they expire because projects have to be presented and it is not always easy to present them. But it is clear that, if we do not employ specialist technicians, the terms of the Structural Funds will always expire. Let us be clear. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] When I hear - excuse me, I refer to justice, because my role has also been recalled - that justice is paralyzed and that we have to work hard to make rules for justice, Minister Bonafede will certainly present a bill on the criminal trial, but the main cause of the paralysis of justice is another. Meanwhile, remember that paralysis of justice means that investments in Italy do not arrive. Then, remember that the cause of the paralysis of justice is due to the fact that in recent years no one has taken care of putting the chancellors and the judicial officers: at 2:00 p.m. the hearings end. We will reactivate the courts, we will reactivate the judicial officers, the chancellors, the administrative staff. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Is it concrete or not, doing this? Is it concrete or not, to restart the courts? Is it concrete or not, making the Structural Funds available to you personally? Do you or do you not want to deal with the actual terms of this measure? [[Comments of Senator Valente]] I know: I can't convince you as if you were in a courtroom when you look at the judge and try to get right, because you can't vote in favour and that's part of the game. BELLANOVA (PD). This is Parliament! Parent, minority rapporteur. You don't have to convince us! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, please, let's not interrupt the Minister. BONGIORNO, Minister for Public Administration. But what I want to say is this: each of these rules has an extraordinary innovative scope and, at the same time, it is concrete. Will there be a public administration revolution tomorrow? No, but we're finally gonna get new staff in the strategic sectors, and finally we're gonna stop these smart cards. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Many Senators of the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups stand up. Congratulations. Senator Valente's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u38	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u39	Mr President, I greet you and greet the Government. Amendment 1.1 is very simple: it is a deleterious amendment of the Core of concreteness. I listened to the Minister's speech and took the opportunity to explain briefly - even though a number of hearings were held on this point, the content of which seemed quite clear to me - why this Core will not succeed in making the administration homogeneous, in inefficiencies (which do not correspond to crimes) or in failings. The reason why our municipalities, regions and public administrations ask the Ministry for clarification is because they are paralyzed by the fear of the responsibilities they can assume, in a world where it is enough to make mistakes where you put a pen and you inevitably get someone's quote or complaint for some hypothetical abuse. Not knowing the mental approach of the employees of the administrations then means producing something like the Core of concreteness, which should serve, from what I understood this morning, to give answers and to solve problems. What employees and administrations are asking is simply to have their shoulders covered. If we wanted to influence the issue of unevenness, perhaps this Government should have questioned the effects of the so-called Bassanini laws which, dividing - or wanting to divide - clearly political responsibilities from technical and managerial responsibilities, have produced a series of distortions, so then it happens that an executive or an employee of different political colors however will hinder the action of the administrators and vice versa. This is only done through productivity premiums which, instead of being an incentive instrument, have become an instrument of bargaining between the political side and the management side. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We cannot, in my opinion, fail to understand this and believe that in this way we defend this abstract category of honesty. I say this to my colleagues in the majority, because I believe that the Minister in his heart knows this, because I cannot believe that at the bottom of his conscience he does not have the real picture of what the country is like. We must not pursue a concept of honesty, which is alone, my lords, in the hands of our Lord, but we must understand what the country is and support it, knowing, however, that man, per se, is fallacious. We must have the capacity to accept ourselves for what we are and to improve ourselves as much as possible, because otherwise we approve a series of measures that are of no use. The Core of concreteness will, in my opinion, be an instrument of pressure, if there are people who are unjudged, or someone who produces cards, perhaps in defense of some employee or manager who wants to have his shoulders covered before taking a measure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u40	Mr President, I would like to explain amendment 1.3, which is completely deleted from Article 1. We must say that the Minister's reply has not escaped us any doubt, nor has it alleviated the concerns that accompanied our reading and our critical considerations on the article. Let's say the things as they are (and in part the intervention of Senator Modena has highlighted some absolutely fundamental issues): at best this Core of concreteness, even if in the bill the competences of the inspectorate are held firm, it will be a simple duplication, an overlap, an exercise maybe of some card that spins. In the worst case, it is - and this danger we cannot fail to see - a sort of task of commissioning the various administrations, recalling, once again, one of the institutions that certainly come to us from the birth of the unitary state, but that has been thought to change several times. Here too, that is, the commissioning is envisaged, in close collaboration with the prefectures, therefore under the Ministry of the Interior. I would like to put a question to the Minister, who may not be able to answer us because he has already spoken, but to understand better. Do you really think that the issues, which are many and complex - the Minister did well to talk about so many public administrations - can somehow be addressed and resolved with this Core of concreteness or even put them under the supervision of prefectures? Frankly, we are not only not convinced, but once again I think we are circling around the problems, which are many. I am thinking, for example, of the overlapping of laws, which have followed in recent years, including the so-called Bassanini laws, and I am also thinking of what has become intervention in the public administration and the difficulties of running contracts, because very often one is afraid of taking responsibility. We certainly need to intervene, but not through instruments that - I repeat - risk, at best, being duplicates and, at worst, making the situation worse. In the end, what will they become? Can they serve as an opinion support? How does such a core, for example, put good practices into circulation? How can it introduce elements of improvement and innovation? This, frankly, even during the debate in the Commission and in the reply - or in the statement - of the Minister, has escaped us completely. We certainly have the problem of staff shortages, and so, of course, we see the issue of turnover well. However, we must also understand exactly how to direct public administration, on which professionalism, how we really bring innovation and efficiency and to modernize it. In conclusion, I would like to mention another problem. Our Constitution, as the Minister knows perfectly well, gives a fundamental role to public administration and also to its impartiality and third-partyness. This is the element on which we will still have to work, and yet this Core of concreteness, once again, in my opinion, calls into question impartiality and third-partyness, through a form of commissariat. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u41	I call on colleagues to leave the government benches free. Thank you, Senator Romeo.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u42	Mr President, Minister, I would just like to make a few comments, the first of which is courtesy. Minister, you thanked the President of the 11th Commission Catalfo, who also publicly thanked me for the work done and thanked the rapporteur for the majority - I am here, Minister! - but I assure you that the civil passion to which you referred has also been guaranteed by the people who sit on the opposition benches. So I ask you every now and then to remember that you are Minister of the Republic and that this democracy also lives oppositions. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Minister, it is a gesture of good education: we also thank the opposition. I assure you that on these days of work - you were not present, your Undersecretary was present - we carried out our task with civil passion, not obstructing and proposing improvements to your bill. I would like to make a second remark: you are right, Minister, not to give the name to this reform. You are right, it is a reform of nothingness and so it is right that you do not put your name on this reform. I therefore welcome your solicitation. I would like to turn to a third point: Minister, you have made a speech which in some respects I share and you have illustrated the scenarios you will be going through in the coming months: but these things are not written in the text. You are evoking scenarios and proposals that are not written in the text. I call on you again to exercise that exercise, to that political virtue, to you I believe very dear, which is the principle of reality: to say things that have been reflected, especially here in Parliament, in the things written in the draft law. If there is no concordance, we are selling - let me say the joke - some smoke. I expect you to make a real proposal for reform of the public administration - who knows between when - and we will talk about this when it is time. Principle of reality, Minister. You speak of the Core of concreteness; I remind you of the principle of reality: 53 people, Minister, to whom you entrust all possible knowledge of public administration innovation. You activate police duties, Minister, allow me to say so. Article 1 on procedures provides for minutes to be answered within three days. Minutes are sent after inspection visits: it's not written in the text, but they're inspection visits, aren't they? These are minutes that are even sent to the Minister of the Interior: as well as to the Court of Auditors, they are lawfully sent to the Minister of the Interior as well as to his Ministry. So I ask you: with this Core of concreteness, this propensity to improve and support honest people, what does the Ministry of the Interior have to do with this function, since the Labour Inspectorate carries out this function? [[Applause from the PD Group]] There is a contradiction, Minister, which you have noted in the text and which has also been recorded on a majority agenda, where it is evident on this subject. Too bad you're saying there's no overlap. Mr Minister, have you also considered the effect of the Nucleus' action on local authorities? You have even introduced a rule that provides for the prefect to intervene in the activities of public administrations, but public administrations already have their control, they already have secretaries; we have administrative justice. The prefects charged with further tasks are also involved in the organisation of public administration. Minister, are you listening to me? BELLANOVA (PD). No, talk to your cell phone. Patriarca (PD). You're not listening to me, Minister. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I ask the government to pay attention to the debate. Patriarca (PD). Minister, you did not respond to this remark made yesterday in general debate, so I ask you (and please answer me): what does the prefects have to do with the control of public administrations and local authorities? We are going to strike a principle very dear to you. She belongs to the League, against robbing Rome, against bureaucratic centralism, and introduces another variant: she calls the prefects to the appeal. But, please, what does the prefects have to do with it? And what does the Minister of the Interior have to do with inspection? I ask you to answer that. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Finally, Minister, because sometimes you do not try to say what you have said and reiterated: there are honest people. Rightly if he repeats this word: "honesty," "honesty." Here, the 3 million citizens currently employed in public administration are honest. So instead of striking rightly, as you say, and heavily the dishonest, sometimes say something positive to the honest, that there are many in the public administration and that they do not deserve this Article 1, which we are asking for to be deleted. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u43	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u44	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u45	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u46	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u49	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I would like to address the Minister's reply to the general debate, particularly on the subject of Article 1. We recognize them, Minister, certainly the good will to try to put a stop to what is not only a misconception, but is a real criminal offence, namely: absenteeism. However, we doubt that, apart from the good will of the proclamations and also the rhetoric that we have heard in this House, this is the concrete measure that can carry out its purposes and for a very trivial reason: because there is no money, first of all for the small municipalities and the small realities, to prepare what you have in mind. You see, Minister, the problem of the practicality and efficiency of public administration does not depend on the fact that those who have to go to work go to work. The problem is then to get these people to work, because the question I ask them and to the colleagues and other people who have had, like me, some administrative responsibility at the local level is: how is it possible that the public leaders do not notice and have not noticed that there were 10, 20 or 50 people missing in their offices? The problem is that the fish stinks from the head, Minister. The problem is that the public leadership did not realize that there were missing people who had to run public administration in this country. That is the scandal. So, as Minister Brunetta did, you can also put turnstiles, you can also guarantee the physical presence of people in the offices, but the problem then is: who watches these people to do their duty? Who measures their efficiency and their work? The Core for concreteness? I have many doubts, Minister, that this can happen. In a private office, and certainly also in his professional studio, if there is one person missing for more than two days (not twenty people for a month) something definitely happens: a bell comes out of the alarm, someone notices and puts himself in a position to remedy the efficiency that his office has to guarantee, because we are within a private administration. In the audience, all this - I can assure you - does not happen. What is lacking in this decree is legislative responses to these problems, not rhetorical pursuit of biometric measures to ensure that newspaper headlines can say that tomorrow morning to enter the office you have to show the face, the fingers and everything that is possible. The problem is whether, in the end, this bill, with the Evaluation Unit, which will cost 4 million euros, in my opinion very badly spent (in the face of concreteness), will be able to tell an incompetent or absentee executive: from tomorrow morning you stay at home; from tomorrow morning you are fired. Will that happen, Minister? I ask you; give me an answer. The evaluation core that must control the common x, where there is absenteeism, where practices do not go ahead and where in the matter of public administration payments - we talked about yesterday - the terms are 360 days (not 30 days), in the end will be able to tell this manager: from tomorrow morning you are looking for another job? Otherwise this is not concreteness, but merely fake and rhetorical. Concreteness is another thing. [[Applause from the FdI and FI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u52	VITALI (FI-BP). Mr President, I am voting in favour of all the deleterious amendments to Article 1 for a very simple reason: we expected the Government to see a reversal of the trend in the creation of new bodies. We create organisms on organisms, then we will clearly create another control body that will have to control the Core of concreteness. We thought that this government wanted to limit and rationalise organizations, institutions, proceeding above all to a delegification. You see, Minister, you did not feel the need for this Core of concreteness, because in our system the Inspectorate was already provided for in Article 60 (6) of Legislative Decree No 175 of 2001. It would have sufficed to increase the number and powers of the people who work there, to move forward on this assumption. The problem is not whether or not to name a law - and today we have noted that you are not affected by legislative narcissism - but to make effective laws that produce the effects they want to achieve. If therefore this draft law of concreteness - which, from the lexical point of view, presents itself in a very fascinating and intriguing way - should have the same effect as the decree of dignity (which, instead of creating jobs, is creating unemployment), instead of optimization we will have the sinking of public administration. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u53	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1 tabled by Senator Modena and other senators, identical to amendments 1.2, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators, and 1.3 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Damiani and other senators to vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.5. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u56	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I would like to point out that I voted against this last amendment, but my card did not work (in fact, the inscription appears on the display to turn the card upside down), but in the previous vote it worked.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u57	We take note of this and ask the technicians to act promptly. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.6 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u60	Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, with this amendment we are talking about the three-year plan: we are calling for the deletion of point (a) to paragraph 2, and we are transferring it - or in any case returning it - to the Public Service Inspectorate, rather than to the Core. I take this opportunity to give an answer to the Minister: the basic premise of a measure called concreteness should be correctness, that is, we must both refer to the written text, as the Senator Patriarch rightly said. [[Applause from Senator Malpezzi.]] You cannot, which is also a jurist's end, tell us that the inspectorate at the civil service has only and exclusively jurisdiction in criminal matters, as is the case with the prosecutor of the Republic. It is not so, because the Office studies them, precisely, that the inspectorate supervises and carries out checks on: the conformity of administrative action with the principles of impartiality and good performance; the effectiveness of administrative activity, with attention to the simplification of procedures. The results of the verifications carried out are an obligation to assess, in order to identify liability, the results of the verifications carried out. At least tell us the truth: these are the powers of the inspectorate at the civil service, it is not a prosecutor of the Republic. You know what good performance means, you know what the effectiveness and impartiality of public administration means, and you can't tell us anything else today. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Minister, with these six articles you cannot think of saying, as has been said by the rapporteurs, that it is immediately delivered to the public administration an overall reorganization. That is not the case, and I would like to make a suggestion: as long as we do not move to our country, for public administration, to an economic, capital and analytical accounting system for management centres, just as the European Union is asking us to implement it by 2020 or, at the most, by 2025, we will not take any step forward. Until a public administration has the opportunity to compare a wage mass with another public administration, we will not move forward: for equal users, a technical office of a municipality that provides services to 30,000 inhabitants cannot cost more than the technical office of another municipality that has to serve for the same inhabitants. Public administration must intervene, with the managers and the core you are talking about, to understand the motivations that induce an administration to be more lacking than another administration. What a practicality core! As for the prefects, I would remind my colleagues that you wanted to abolish prefectures and today you give full power to the 53 sheriffs and prefectures. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u61	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.8, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators, up to the words " (a) ". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.9 are therefore not included. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.10, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 1.11, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.14, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u62	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo (Italo Calvino) of Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u63	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.15, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,300, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.19 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u66	Parent (PD). Mr President, I rise to announce the Group's vote in favour of amendment 1.19 (text 2), recalling its content. The proposal gives a delegation to the Government, therefore pro tempore to Minister Bongiorno, on the simplification of controls in territorial administrations and therefore provides guidelines for delegation. The amendment was the result of the wealth of proposals of the approximately 8,000 Italian municipalities that are subject to numerous controls, thus producing a defensive bureaucracy and losing so much energy that they could put at the service of citizens and citizens, waiting that the local agency is the one closest to our daily life. By voting against Amendment No 1.19 (text 2), as the majority has announced, we do not really put our hands on the main issue of public administration, namely the simplification of controls and the simplicity of citizens' lives. Indeed, as my fellow Members have said, there is no doubt that this simplification is even more necessary, because the so-called Core for concreteness is a further control body: let us stop using the word tutor, which I have heard these days, because he is not a tutor. As my colleague Patriarch said, there is a wording in the legislation that is literally overlapping with the inspectorate, so we stick to the norm. In addition, Minister, you are making a little bit of a fuss, because this Unit of Concreteness must explain, with 53 people, how self-certification is made to the almost 10,000 administrations that we have, of which 8,500 are local and regional authorities. I call for concreteness, for the principle of reality: how do 53 people go to 10,000 local authorities and explain what you say? That is why there is what we had proposed to you, that is, a great plan for the training of staff, of the employees of the public administration. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u69	FLORIS (FI-BP). Mr President, I am announcing the vote of abstention of the Forza Italia Group on this amendment. There are considerations to be made about the same core, which is set up with a budget of funds which seems insufficient to us to provide for transfers and transfers to the various administrations which, as the Minister said, require help or clarification. Moreover, this transfer should take place with the Supervisory Inspectorate, in many cases it should also involve prefects and we believe that expenditure on the operation of the Supervisory Inspectorate is certainly underestimated. In an analysis of the text, we will also see that other expenditures and allocations of funds are also planned, in our opinion, with great superficiality, because the economic posts included in the text are certainly to be considered superficial, given the extent of what is planned.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u72	BERTACCO (FdI). Mr President, I would like to speak in order to announce the vote in favour of the Brothers of Italy Group on this amendment, but above all to take the opportunity to remind Minister Bongiorno that on this subject, more than a month ago, I have submitted a question about an inspection made to the Municipality of Verona by the inspection services of public finance, which for almost two months has blocked its operation. I therefore believe that it is particularly important for you to give an opinion once and for all in favour. In a bill that you call "concreteness" in which you recall "efficiency" I believe that these two terms should be related to the way in which inspectors behave as they go out. I repeat, there is no will to prevent a facilitation of controls also because the law on transparency provides for the publication on the site of the Municipality of the many documents that are requested. Sometimes, with some common sense and a willingness to cooperate, many problems could be avoided. But perhaps, at this point, approving this amendment would be able to resolve them definitively, giving local authorities the opportunity to produce the documentation at a possible time and, above all, imagining that other activities are also taking place during the day. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u73	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.19 (text 2), tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u74	Mr President, we have already stated that we are opposed to Article 2: we have also said so in the Commission and have said so in general debate. Of course, I say this once again to the Minister, certainly not because we are in favour or support absenteeism. That's all I need! Absenteeism is there; it is a worrying fact, which must be fought, we would miss something else. But the point, Minister, once again is the approach, the point of view that you have chosen to start and to declare the renewal of public administration. You can't start with the smart guys. If we want to talk about public administration, if we want to talk about good practice, Minister, we need to talk and invest in honest people. To decide to start, as the first sign of this Government, from the smart ones, means to have a point of view and a perspective, regarding the activity of the three million employees of the public administration, prejudiced negatively. The anthropology proposed here is a negative anthropology. In fact, if I think that all employees of the public administration are almost all a bit dishonest (the so-called smarties, in fact), it is clear that I will produce legislation consistent with this vision. We think, instead, that public administration (made by 3,200,000 people) is composed in the huge majority of honest people. Minister, I'm from the public administration. I am a teacher, but I have also been principal and, therefore, I know the smart guys, but I also know 99 percent of the staff of my institute (a technical institute) made of honest people. And my dean's action was aimed at supporting honest people, making them work well and, of course, fighting smart guys. The proposal of Article 2, basically, says: very well, since this world is made up of smarties, further controls are introduced: video surveillance and fingerprint verification. Mr. Minister, allow me to tell you: you took a bit of a risky ride, trivializing the notations that the Data Protection Supervisor communicated to us. We have audited it, we have the notice from the Guarantor that the principle of proportionality must be guaranteed and that instruments such as these should be used when it is not possible to do otherwise, because the protection of privacy is a constitutional value, a value guaranteed by the European Union and therefore attention to its use must be given due consideration because we are still a rule of law, we are still a state made up of citizens, as you say, where the protection of my privacy and the possibility of being free must be guaranteed. I ask you, Minister, by whom will the databases be managed? Article 1 of the text in our examination is very careful and detailed: the core of concreteness is detailed and even the secondary norm is already written in Article 1. On the other hand, Article 2 does not say so much more, it does not say what will be done, who will do this operation, who will check, where the fingerprints will be deposited, who will manage these databases. I would like to know your thoughts and your views. Finally, Minister, are we cost-effective? I would also like to know something about the investment provided for in Article 2, again to talk about the principle of reality, Minister, because I would like you to remain within this principle which is a value of politics. We are called to measure ourselves on people's lives. I can dream of a world much happier than this but as a legislator I have to say what to do and it must be something sustainable, something realistic. I ask you, Minister: will 35 million be enough to activate this control system? Is it a joke, a form of irony, or will public administrations and local authorities have to spend money and resources on biometric controls? Is that the prospect? I invite you to a reading that I think is very useful, Minister. A Neapolitan economist, Antonio Genovese (who you may already know), proposed a somewhat different perspective in 1750 and said that if we want to do good to this country rather than hit the vicious ones, who must be hit, we should try to invest in the virtuous. This is the perspective that we have somehow ridden and tried to animate in the previous legislature, which is denied with this bill. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u75	Mr President, we are certainly in favour of the contrast to absenteeism which, Minister, we consider a great scam - and Forza Italia demonstrated this first - which damages the economy and the image of the country. You, Minister, said one thing that I agree with: you have noted the heterogeneity and unevenness of the public administration machine but you have not taken it into account. Set these devices to the entire public administration, up to the smallest of the municipalities. We therefore wanted to stress with this amendment that, on the other hand, limits had to be set and the obligation of these devices had to be implemented where it was really necessary, where very strong absenteeism had already been recognised. In fact, I repeat, obliging all the municipalities, even the smaller ones with two or three employees, means burdening the coffers of those municipalities that do not have the resources at their disposal, because you do not foresee them at the level of public finance, not even to secure their schools. So, Minister, that was our intention: to use law enforcement measures efficiently and effectively where they really are needed. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] (at 12.10 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u76	Mr President, we have tabled a number of amendments to Article 2, seeking to get on with the substance. These are amendments which tend to eliminate what we consider to be the most negative parts of the article. In the first place, the so-called smarties are veritable scoundrels (already the word "furbets" does not please me), because they damage the public interest. You, Minister, did well to remember that it is certainly a crime, but you teach me, like other authoritative colleagues in this House, that criminal responsibility is absolutely personal. You, in this way, are creating a kind of general associative crime - and it seems to me that your successes in the courts often result from the contestation of associative crimes - because, for the responsibility of few, who commit crimes and harm the public interest, the result will be to give a label to all civil servants. This is absolutely unacceptable. The instrument that is being used, among other things in a general way, poses a lot of problems and in fact does not solve the question of how to make the majority of civil servants work better, who certainly do not use boxes or boxes, but try to do their duty. The effort therefore had to be to improve, to ensure efficiency, to ensure that when employees are at work, even if they are regularly stamped, they produce for public administration and this result is not achieved by taking fingerprints as a general and general method for all administrations; I am thinking of small municipalities, which will have at the limit two or three employees. In this way, in fact, you are spreading personal criminal liability across the audience of civil servants. This, I believe, is not a way of truly ensuring the efficiency of public administration and the protection of the public interest. Generalizations and carpet applications are never good. I would also like to remind you that the services are also very different and that is absolutely not taken into account. For all these reasons, I think it would have been wise to intervene more surgically. I would add an emphasis that the Privacy Supervisor, during the hearings, also highlighted. There is one aspect that we are not given to know: who will keep and manage this data, which are sensitive, as you know perfectly well? All these months, we've spent time signing privacy releases on whatever we've been subjected to. The question remained unanswered: who will be the guardian of these sensitive data? How will they be managed? You, Minister, understand perfectly how sensitive this data is to be handled. Finally, allow me to make a joke. If the time for implementing the biometric survey rule is similar to that for the electronic identity card, who knows how much longer we can enjoy it. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u77	Mr President, I am learning this morning from the statements of the Minister who, as a guarantor, has taken an absolutely legalist attitude. [[Applause from Senator Malpezzi.]] And I'm more surprised when he says that he was also the employee who improperly uses the tag to justify his presence, we should intervene. Minister, it seems to me that we must always take account of the concept of proportionality of the intervention that is required. With regard to this criterion, the measure taken by you in the draft law has been declared ultraroneo; however, it has not been declared ultraroneo by the Forza Italia Group, which, moreover, is absolutely in agreement in condemning the smarties of the card that first discredit colleagues and public administration. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We are firmly convinced of the need for strong action, but with proportionate measures. The Court of Auditors then declares this measure to be an ultroneal measure. The Privacy Supervisor himself raises some doubts about the sustainability of the system from the point of view of the guarantee that must be given not only on the data of the presence, but on the processing of data that can be carried out later. It seems to me then that the measure, which deserves a great deal of attention, is truly ultra-roneous. I also say that the economic aspect is not well defined: 35 million euros for 10,000 public administration offices using this system [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , which produce a cost for its application and subsequently for the control of its proper functioning and the processing of data, it seems to me that they are really few compared to the strict necessities. It is also said in an amendment that those EUR 35 million should probably be integrated with government funds. I am thinking above all of small administrations, which are already in economic difficulty and which will have to pay further costs per installation, operation and control of these systems, which are also sophisticated and can also be hacked. Therefore, these systems do not give us an absolute guarantee of operation, but they are and could also be subjected to internal or external tampering. Minister, a measure of this kind is suitable for those who do not want to condemn the few sly or scoundrels who improperly use the card for themselves or for others; it creates discredit in the public administration and before introducing it should not let go of easy statements, as: it would be enough only one guilty to condemn them all. No, we can't allow that. We are and still remain guaranteed. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u78	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u79	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u80	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u81	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.3 tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.4 tabled by Senator Modena. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2.7, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators, up to the words "of instruction." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.6 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.8, tabled by Senators Laus and Patriarch. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.9, tabled by Senators Iannone and Bertacco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2,300 is inadmissible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.10, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.11 (correct text), tabled by Senator Floris and other senators, identical to amendment 2.12 (correct text), tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.16, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators, identical to amendment 2.15, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.17, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2301, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.25, tabled by Senator Floris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.18, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.20, tabled by Senators Patriarch and Laus. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.21, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.23, tabled by Senator Modena. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2302, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.303 tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2.26, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators, until the words "present article" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.27 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.28.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u84	Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, with this amendment, we are asking that the local police should not receive this rule. And we do so, all the more so, after listening to the Minister's speech, who rightly acknowledged that public administration is not a homogeneous sector but is made up of very specific sectors. So you know, Minister. I take as an example the specificities of the local police, a body and a sector where flexibility is required, where urgent interventions are required via radio, where there are GPS in the cars; this is certainly a different type of service from that of the nurse, the employee of a technical office, the doctor or the operator. Instead, with this structure, treat intervention in the public administration sector in a homogeneous way. You see, Minister, a few steps are needed to make the most of human resources. Those who come from the private world know that it is not with repression that you get the maximum profit and also very well know that physical presence does not equal productivity. They're two different concepts. To enhance human resources, it is necessary to apply three principles, the first of which is awareness (the employee must be aware of his role), the second is motivation and the third is objectives (because work is done by objective). I'm still making another note, Minister. There is a difference between the smart cards, which put this reprehensible behavior into practice, and which, in my opinion, are real scammers to the detriment of the whole category, and absenteeism. They are two different things, because today 400, 500 or 1,000 people can get sick when they might actually go to work because there are not exactly all the conditions to stay at home, and you confuse absenteeism with the other type of ordinary absenteeism. A person like you can't possibly afford to make such a fuss. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u85	Excuse me, Senator Laus, on the understanding that the opinion has been expressed, I would not like to be mistaken, but I seem to remember that in one of the videos the man who stamped in his underwear was a vigilante. Mr Laus (PD). But not every security guard, one. That's the cultural difference. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I hope so. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.28, tabled by Senators Laus and Patriarch. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.29, tabled by Senator Modena. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.30, which is identical to Amendment 2.31.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u88	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, I would like to address the Minister and the rapporteur because we cannot understand the contrary opinion expressed on this amendment concerning the school sector. You say that as far as teachers and educational staff are concerned, everything will be entrusted to a subsequent measure. However, you forget - and this is what we have tried to remind you with Amendment 2.30 - the technical and administrative staff that is part of the school sector. We ask you, therefore, what will happen to these employees, to what regime they will be subjected to and whether they will remain outside the regime that covers the whole school sector, as it is necessary. Minister, I address you and I do it with all my heart, as an employee of the public administration, because you are one of my ministers of reference: what do you think of the staff of the public administration? I in this House have heard descriptions from colleagues who represent employees of the public administration as if they were all idlers, washing men, who deserve exemplary punishment. [[Applause from the PD Group]] What do you do? We certainly want to fight against those who harm public administration, so much so that in the last parliamentary term we have put in place measures to attack those who really have criminal behaviors, because they go to harm the rest of a sector. But dear Minister, what you propose with your draft law concrete concreteness has really little. We expected from her a real action of concreteness against the fake 104, those operations that really need to be able to intervene and give answers. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We expected real concrete action to make the most of public administration staff from training. In one of our amendments, we called for the inclusion of 35 million in order to ensure that more and more up-to-date staff were provided. I regret to have to tell you, Minister, but there is only your propaganda within this measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u89	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.30, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators, identical to amendment 2.31, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.32, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.33, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.34, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u92	Parent (PD). Mr President, I am proud to announce the Democratic Party's vote against Article 2 for three reasons. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In the first place, we believe that those who commit crimes should be punished, so much so that legislative decree no. 116 of 2016, of the Madia reform, has revised the false attestation of presence, contemplating also all the environmental issues, that probably occur, and therefore giving a more precise definition of the false attestation of presence in service. In addition, the article provides for the precautionary suspension without salary for those who are caught in flagrante, so much so that in 2016 there were only three layoffs for false attestation in service and in 2018 there were 54. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is a law of the State, therefore of all of us, and it is our duty to make it walk and understand how it goes. Secondly, here we read according to a lighthouse, made up of principles. Article 52 of the Nice Charter speaks of the principle of proportionality, which is a basic principle. The Minister mentioned, using also the mimic, balance: in justice there is always a balance and the key principle of balance is the balance between rights and freedom. In this case, therefore, we have a restriction on the right to confidentiality of personal data, so the real principle of proportionality should be laid down: we have discussed this in the Commission, but it seems that there is no common ground. This is serious, because principles should go beyond the dialectic between majority and opposition. Therefore, the limitation of a right is justified by the principle of proportionality. If we put biometric and video surveillance systems, however, we undermine the principle of proportionality, because this is not proportional to the objective we set ourselves, which is the contrast to the false certificate of service and the non-compliance with working hours. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is a simple principle. Then we can divide between majority and opposition on the solutions to be given, but not on questions of principle, blessed God. Let us give a high value to what we do in this House! [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] We do not dispute between majority and opposition, which, as has been mentioned, we have not done. Thirdly, Minister, I appeal to your sense of concreteness (we are also women and women are more concrete). Imagine what will happen when the law is in force. You have rightly annexed the tables, which mention the damage and crime that has occurred. I quote an episode among the various: it happened that an employee was noticed outside the structure while from the system of detection of the presence he appeared in service; this employee was fired without notice. We know that there are public offices located in condominiums that also have other facilities. If we want to put biometric controls to progress and better punish cases like this, we need to put turnstiles and locked doors and build a kind of cage, because even with the fingerprint, no one guarantees that the employee will not leave the office. For the principle of concreteness or we establish NASA-like controls or this rule will have no effect. So let us all check not to control anyone, because it is clear that there is a limitation of the law: that is what we are talking about. If we take the fingerprints and check the iris, we cause a personal data injury. Who's gonna deal with that data? How will you treat them? How will they be used, not discriminated, today, tomorrow, in a month or in a year? We are proudly against this article and against the provision. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We will be a minority in this House, we will probably be a minority in the country, but we defend the right to the protection of personal data, because it is the new frontier in such a technologically advanced world. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And we, who are people who legislate, have a duty to legislate on the new borders. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Malan.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u95	FLORIS (FI-BP). Mr President, I have already said before why we are opposed to this article: we are for a system that activates proportionality, a system of cost containment, a system that does not generalize - we use this term - the criminals of the card. Minister, I would have done another article in your draft law, or in the draft law - since you don't want to name it - on public administration. I would have made an article on the motivation and responsibility of the person who goes to work. Many times one goes to work by being sure that one's presence is not indispensable. That is what I would like to do: on those reforms that indicate the number of employees needed in each office, giving them a strong motivation to be present and doing continuous training, because - as my colleague Tiraboschi said earlier - public administration is ageing and needs to be updated, even in the light of technological progress. Finally, I would also say to take a reward, but it must not be given to rain. Today, in fact, when you go to see the concept of reward, it is difficult to distinguish who is strictly necessary within your office from who is not. On the other hand, we need a reward that is oriented to the results, which can be, as my colleague Mr Laus said earlier, also assessed on the basis of their real efficiency, measured by the introduction of economic and patrimonial accounts reconciled with the financial one, understanding which administrations are going well, compared with each other, and which instead to the reward probably have no right. Dear Minister, then not the stick as efficient as the carrot is in these cases. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u96	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u97	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u98	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u99	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.5, tabled by Senator Berardi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.8. [[Senator Berardi points out that he wants to intervene.]] Would you like to speak on this amendment, Senator Berardi? Mr Berardi (FI-BP). No, Mr President, but I have not been able to do that on my amendment, 3.5. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You will then be able to speak in an explanation of vote on the article. I call on Senator Damiani and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 3.8. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 3.10 tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators, up to the words "of the entity". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 3.11 and 3.12. are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u102	Mr Berardi (FI-BP). Mr President, I am speaking on Article 3, with particular attention to the amendment that we have tabled, which we propose to assign to the alternates, even short ones, the annual remuneration that belongs to the staff of the role. The aim is to allocate a figure of around EUR 10 million over the next three years to give real justice to those alternates who are already precarious, work little and are also underpaid. It seems to be at the limit of exploitation at work. That's not a good example from the government. And then maybe we ask our companies and our entrepreneurs to hire indefinitely, while in the public administration we use too often and willingly the precarious. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u103	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u104	Mr President, I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 4. On the agenda of the G4.100 I propose the following rewording: "It engages the Government, within the framework of the authorized recruitment procedures: to provide for measures aimed at enhancing the plurality of knowledge and skills acquired over the years in subjects who have acquired the titles of preference, referred to in Article 50 of Decree-Law 24 June 2014, n. 90, converted with amendments by Law 11 August 2014, n. 114, through the allocation of an additional score determined by the administration and to the rankings of the placement lists.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u105	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur, both on the amendments and on the G4100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u106	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u109	VITALI (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to recommend to the rapporteur, but above all to the Minister, that the opinion on Amendment 4.1 be re-evaluated and I also explain the reasons for it. When I read the text of Article 4, which provides for the recruitment, within 100% of the expenditure, of the staff ceased in the previous year, I asked myself a question: are we not the country with one of the highest public debts in the world? Aren't we that country that has to cut public spending? And isn't public personnel a part of public spending? I therefore believe that it is the government's job to promote and encourage employment, by creating incentives for businesses and reducing taxes, by investing in infrastructure and without burdening the administrative machinery with additional public expenditure. Since you now intend to approve this article and there is a possibility and not an obligation - that is, the administrations can, but must not - make at least an assessment of the organizational plans, operational models and good practices, in order to avoid hiring people who then, instead of creating opportunities for the administration, increase the public debt. Amendment 4.1 seems to me to be of common sense, because it does not create obstacles to the prerogatives that the measure wants to achieve, but at least, before hiring blindly, what is actually being achieved is what is needed for the good performance of the public administration. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u110	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.3, tabled by Senator Floris and other senators, identical to amendments 4.4, tabled by Senators Zanda and Patriarch, and 4.5, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.9, tabled by Senator Floris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.14, tabled by Senators Iannone and Bertacco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Damiani and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 4.16. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.21, tabled by Senator Berardi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.26, tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Damiani and other senators to vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.29, tabled by Senator Damiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.30 tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.31, tabled by Senators Iannone and Bertacco, which is essentially identical to amendments 4.32, tabled by Senator Berardi and other Senators, and 4.33, tabled by Senators Patriarch and Laus. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.37, tabled by Senator Modena. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.38, tabled by Senator Berardi and other senators, identical to amendment 4.39, tabled by Senators Iannone and Bertacco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.43, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators, identical to amendment 4.45, tabled by Senators Iannone and Bertacco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senators Bertacco and Iannone to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4.44. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.46 (text 2), tabled by Senators Patriarch and Laus. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.47, tabled by Senator Masini and other senators, identical to amendment 4.48, tabled by Senators Zanda and Patriarch. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Parente, will you accept the request for the rewording of the agenda by the rapporteur, Mr G4,100?
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u111	No, Mr President, I do not accept it, because it concerns a commitment already contained in all the existing legislation and, therefore, there is no further one. Unfortunately, not even on an agenda is the government committed to moving forward. I therefore insist on your vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u112	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G4100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u115	BERTACCO (FdI). Mr President, I do not understand the opposite opinion or the request for the rewording of the agenda, which, in fact, is nothing in fact (and forgive me for the pun). If Senator Parente says that it is already included in the legislation, it does not solve the age-old problem of the people who work within the courts who, for years, have been promised a stabilization of the various political colors that have followed, after working years and years with a maximum refund of 400 euros, being training internships. I believe that it is practical to give an answer to all these people, especially to understand what their future will be. You are lucky enough to be a member of the Council of Ministers and, perhaps, you can point out to Mr Bonafede that these are people who, in times of difficulty, have kept the machinery of the courts going. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u116	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda of the G4100, presented by Senator Parente. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u119	Patriarca (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly to justify my Group's abstention on Articles 3 and 4. I have spoken of the principle of reality and now I also add the principle of truth. We are abstaining because Articles 3 and 4 live on measures adopted in the previous parliamentary term. The current government is only speeding up procedures already foreseen in measures approved by the previous Commission. So there is nothing to do with the budget maneuver, to which Mr Bongiorno refers. We will see the budget law and what will happen and hear what it will tell us about issues of public employment. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u120	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.7 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.12, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.0.14 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u123	BERTACCO (FdI). Mr President, I would like to point out that - in my opinion - there is an error in the text of amendment 4.0.14, because reference is made to Article 33 (3) of Law No 104 of 5 February 1992. If I recall correctly, this should be Article 3 (3).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u124	Senator Bertacco, the text of amendment 4.0.14 has been reworded following the opinion expressed by the Budget Commission. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.14 (text 2), tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.15, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.17, tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u125	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u126	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u127	We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u128	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u130	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, I announce that our vote on Article 5 will be against. As my colleagues have already said, there is very little concrete in the measure and on the subject of Article 5 there is practically little more than nothing. It is true that we deal with the issue of public employees and public administrations who have had good meals, but we leave completely out the whole theme of the many small companies that bought food vouchers to give them to their workers, of the many distribution exercises, sometimes very small, that have taken them in charge, providing in exchange goods and products, and that are found with that toy that is absolutely useless. I believe that concreteness would have required a broader look, which would have met all the problems there were. We had tabled Amendment 5.2, which has been declared inadmissible, and we really believe that all the businesses and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that today have unpaid food vouchers should have an answer. In this case, it absolutely pretends to fly over the problem and I believe that this is not concrete. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u133	Toffanin (FI-BP). Mr President, I insist that we really stress the importance and attention that should have been paid to the activities of the public establishments, which are private companies, micro and medium-sized enterprises which serve the community. Unfortunately, we have not listened to the many realities that have been put in difficulty by a society that emits selected food vouchers - I remember it well - from Consip. There is, therefore, also a responsibility of the State: it is a responsibility of Consip not to have checked and supervised because the critical situation of this publishing company was known for a long time. So, there is a great responsibility. Attention: we put in trouble not only the companies that have not been paid the service they have carried out, but the entire sector of food vouchers, a sector that - I remember - is worth 3 billion. When one of the players in this sector fails - this is the situation and the cry of alarm that is coming from the public establishments - it will put us back the entire sector, and therefore broadcasters, public or private companies that provide the service to their employees, all workers who make use of good meals. Let's go create a very considerable damage to this sector. I recall that with the decree of dignity we have already experienced significant difficulties: in this sense I recall the fact of Assolavoro of these days, which has found a loss of 53,000 jobs because of the aforementioned provision. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We do not put the world of work into further difficulties, because we cannot afford to create public jobs and lose many private jobs. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We can't and can't afford it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senators Boldrini and Steger]] You said that this measure concerns public administration. I believe, however, that in any case such a heterogeneous measure from some point of view would certainly have been able to accommodate the demands of private companies put in difficulty also because of the public administration. We do not give up and certainly do not give up the demands that we had made to respond to so many companies we will also take them back in the draft budget law, in which we will really ask for urgent and effective answers. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u134	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government if they confirm the opposite opinion on Amendment 5.0.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u135	Mr President, I confirm that.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u136	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u137	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.4 tabled by Senator Floris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u140	Toffanin (FI-BP). Mr President, I would just like to say that our Group voted against Article 5. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this. The vote, however, shall be recorded in the minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u141	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u143	CONZACTS (FI-BP). Mr President, I would just like to say that my vote on Article 6 was obviously in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u144	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u146	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I would also like to point out that my Group's vote on Article 6 is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u147	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u148	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u150	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Mr President, in the meantime, we must acknowledge that this Government has been able to express some kind of creative potential, starting with the identification of the names that have been assigned to certain measures. I am thinking, precisely, of the decree of dignity, quoted several times also on this occasion; I am thinking, of course, of the evocative name attributed to the measure in question: the concreteness used in relation to the question of public administration. Mr President, I say to you and, through you, to the majority that there is a distance that can no longer be supported between the suggestions, the proclamations and the ability, which these measures clearly express, to identify problems and, consequently, the solutions. Here too, in fact, we are not talking about any topic at all. Public administration is not just any issue. We are talking about one of the strategic assets, if not the main strategic asset for the possibility that a country has of being able to put in field policies of development and growth. After all, we are talking about a debate that many countries, far more advanced than ours, have been doing for some time, with some more positive outcome than the debate we are having: in the end, that is, what is the role of the State in a complex society like ours? That is the height of the debate that we should maintain. What did you do instead? It addresses a question of such importance and gender, as precisely the role of the public administration, of its articulations and therefore, in the end, the role of the State, in the worst way and - let me tell you - even in the oldest way because, in the end, we are faced with a sort of "brunettism" of return, as someone has defined it. I do not want my colleague from the Chamber, Professor Renato Brunetta, but once again, and again in this passage, in our country, we are addressing the subject of public administration only by putting it at the center of a discussion imbued with the rhetoric of the lazy and the smart card, which - beware - is not a phenomenon that we do not want to see and that must not be addressed in all its gravity and dangerousness and with the right tools. The problem is that there is a risk of criminalising an entire category. And, rather than addressing the question of how public administration is being innovated; what investments it produces and puts into the field; how resources are being valued; how digitalisation processes are being put in place; how new forms of work organisation are being tested within the public machine; rather than reasoning about all this you are dealing with a - I insist - serious but risking to produce an element of general criminalisation of an entire category. Minister, you mentioned the example of that employee or those employees who would camouflage their faces even with boxes. I believe that image, which refers to specific events that must be addressed precisely because of their gravity, offensive to the three million civil servants who work in the public administration and who carry out their work with self-denial and responsibility and who on their head do not have boxes, but rather great responsibilities, great thoughts on how to deal with their work daily. And they often do so in a heroic dimension, because they do not have the means to do so, because they are not in a position to best express their potential within the context in which they are operating. So, I think this is the first problem of the provision in our examination: the installation, the philosophy that underlies it, the rhetoric with which you simply want to capitalize because you are obsessed only and exclusively with this, with an element of consensus. You must say, at the end of this measure, that you have dealt with the smart cards, without knowing, President, that the theme is not simply to control an employee at the entrance or exit, but what the hell does that employee exactly between those two moments, i.e. between when he enters his office and when he leaves it. To quote the classics, as accountant Ugo Fantozzi said, in the office you can also play at the naval battle. That's the point, that's the theme: how do we put millions of civil servants in the condition of being able to express the maximum potential. And this is done exactly with the tools I have referred to, with paths of valorization, with investments, with computerization, with training courses, with professionalization. I believe that this is the first aspect to be put at the centre of our attention, which responds exactly to the reasons why we oppose - we do not criticize, but we oppose - the basic reasoning that has led you to conceive such a measure. Of course, starting from this plant, you have therefore imagined some specifications, some joints, that is, you have imagined the worst tools to be able to implement exactly the reasoning, the plant starting from the institution of the Core of concreteness. I do not repeat the arguments, which have also been reiterated by other Members in this House. There is a theme of duplication of effort, and therefore also of costs, linked to the Core of concreteness. There are very delicate profiles that concern the aspects of privacy: you have not dissolved the nodes in relation to who should process the data and who is responsible for managing them. These are very delicate profiles, which have been submitted to the attention of the Data Protection Supervisor, who has also expressed himself on this ground. There is another aspect that collects all the criticality that we express towards an instrument like the Core of concreteness: with a mechanism through which you put in place the prefects - so, in the end, the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior on the public administration - you are first of all commissioning the public administration, with a scheme that we repudiate, which is from the police state. I would like to say, with a joke, that, if the efficiency that should guarantee the control of the Ministry of the Interior is the same that the Minister protempore is using when he risks blowing some delicate investigations, so much good wishes for the possibility that the Ministry can carry out this work. But this is the end that will make that kind of approach to the measure: the Commissariat of the Public Administration. This is unacceptable to us. I think that perhaps much more and in a very different way could have been done to address the issue of public administration and public employment workers, starting with that great extraordinary recruitment plan which is not contained in this measure. Our country is a country that suffers a condition that can no longer be postponed, from the point of view of its solution, compared to the possibility of truly entering new resources and new competences into the public administration. In the two articles that deal with this there is simply a mechanism - for charity, even respectable - that oil the possibility of insertions of this kind, but nothing has to do with that extraordinary plan of assumptions that our country would need. For all these reasons, we will vote proudly against this measure. I hope there is a chance that we can at least remove those very serious errors that accompany the draft law that is about to be voted on. We are talking, in fact, not about any topic, but about the common house: public administration is a piece of our common house. From this point of view, we need more respect in approaching a topic that should be dear to everyone's heart. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u151	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u153	BERTACCO (FdI). Mr President, Minister, Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, when I thought about what I would say in today's explanation of vote, I was curious to read the word 'concreteness' on the vocabulary; in short, the vocabulary gives the exact size of the word we are looking for. Concreteness is the quality of what is concrete, consistency is. So "concreteness" is the key word for this intervention, which seeks to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of public administration. We all know, however, that in the last twenty-five years such measures have been taken by all the governments that have followed each other, unfortunately with little success. It is not that this is a wish that even the present goes wrong, but you have a little accustomed us to attractive names; dignity, citizenship and, now, concreteness. I then tried to look for what could be concrete in the measure, starting precisely from Article 1, which constitutes the Core of concreteness; a Core which still today, in the general discussion and in the examination of the various amendments, has not been well understood who does what. However, it is a group of people, 53 to be exact, who should take care of the immense world of public administration, beside the inspectorates and agencies, overlap; whether they are above or below, we have not yet understood it. I therefore believe that more than help can become a new burden for public administration. Do you really think you can solve the problem of the effectiveness and efficiency of public administration with a scattered group of people? A problem such as that of the public administration would certainly deserve other and more in-depth attention. Perhaps it would have been better to listen to the regions and local authorities before dealing with this type of issue, and perhaps it would have been even better if we had seen the measure after the simplification of public administration. If you had listened to the Regions and local authorities, who take charge of the operation of our country every day, you would surely have discovered that the new task, the Three-Year Efficiency Plan, recalled in so many interventions, goes to add to the many other plans that public administrations have to present in other areas. As Undersecretary Fantinati knows - I have said this several times in the Commission and I am repeating it here - it seems to me that the government has a bit of legislative schizophrenia. And I say this because I have not yet been able to find an answer when Article 1 refers to the words 'previously understood at the Unified Conference', which suggest that the regions and local authorities are also involved in the measure. Then, as I scroll through the various articles and other parts in which these words are recorded, I noticed that, when we arrive at Article 4, which concerns the facilitations with regard to recruitment and turnover, this sentence is no longer there. I have also raised this issue in the Commission, but I have not heard an answer or perhaps I have not understood it. You want to tell me that the local authorities and the regions will be controlled by the Core of correctness, but will not be able to access the facilities of recruitment? The point is not clear to me. Article 2 was described by the Minister with great oratory ability, also helped by his profession, saying that he could go on TV and take thousands of votes. It is clear that it is a subject that touches the belly of people, but it is also true - as she teaches - that usually reasoning is done with the head and not with the belly. We therefore prefer to keep thinking with our heads and say that Article 2 does not please us because it seems the most bleak attempt to discredit public employees. In the table you published together with the measure, which brings a number of cases already successful, very often those who do the crime - as you rightly called it - are workers who had stamped. So the problem isn't photographing them and it's not taking their fingerprints, discrediting them and treating them worse than a criminal. I remember that public administration employees outnumber 3 million: criminalizing all these people seems a little risky. We expected, from those who speak of efficiency, a serious investigation on the condition of the workers of the public administration. We would have liked to have heard about training plans, we would have liked to talk about safety in the workplace, we would have liked to talk about these and many other things. Instead, you impose the obligation to install biometric detection or video surveillance tools on everyone. In fact, you could predict that every morning employees of the public administration would have to undergo the same protocol as a convicted person when he enters prison. Attention, we don't want to defend the smart guys; but the tools to fire these people are already there. You said that, Minister: these are crimes and must be prosecuted, precisely because of the principle of justice. This is not what the many honest people who work with dedication in public administration expect from Parliament. I want to talk to you about Marta, employee of a municipality, category B; she earns just over 1,000 euros, little more than what you want to attribute with the income of citizenship, with the difference that she works. And to her expectations of growth, honesty and dedication, we respond by taking her fingerprints. I would like to give another example, relating to the Municipality of Ferrara di Monte Baldo: a mayor, two city councilors, a municipal secretary shared with other municipalities, three employees, 100 inhabitants in the winter period and 1,500 in the summer period. According to the measure you want to approve, this municipality will also have to install biometric equipment. Honestly, I don't know if this municipality hired the Bassotti Band, since there are three employees; I don't think so. You impose an unjustifiable, absurd and useless expense. You brought the prefects into play. You have been deaf and, above all, silent in the Commission in the face of the many amendments that called for extensions for the competitive rankings; amendments that would have allowed many people, after so many years of precariousness and with competitions surpassed behind, to find a definitive place, including safeguarding the investments that local authorities and the regions had made on them. But this is not of interest to the majority; the Government's response to these amendments was of complete closure, except then, at the end of the Commission's work, to hear the Secretary Fantinati announce the arrival of a new measure that will settle matters, with regard to rankings, by the end of the year. I remind the government that the end of the year is in just over twenty days. Something good is there, for example Article 5. Regarding food vouchers, the bill aims to solve the problems born in the past months with the failure of the group "Here!". It is therefore expected to heal disservices and arrears. I conclude by saying that, once again, we wanted to make a measure that has more electoral purpose than substance, which involves an expenditure of EUR 40 million that could be used to encourage Italian companies and to invest in young people. For the reasons given, I announce the contrary vote of Brothers of Italy. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u154	Senator Bertacco, I remembered that the members of the Bassotti Band were more than three. Here Quo Qua were three, but the Banda Bassotti I remember it more numerous; but it may have been reduced.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u155	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u157	Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the concreteness promised to the Italians with the bill before the Senate today sadly refers us back to the plants of at least two other decrees of this Government, decrees mounted in art as an advertising agency would do in creating a commercial. In the meantime there are the effective titles, the ones that capture the audience in the belly, before even in the head. Now it is concreteness, but in the recent past there have been security and even dignity, concepts as absolute as noble as to discourage the critical sense even of the most disenchanted public opinion. After all, who would not be willing to do anything to have concreteness, security and dignity in return? For this reason behind the titles of ministerial decrees (Bongiorno, Di Maio, Salvini) there is always an enemy to be fought, an enemy that is equivalent to the dirt impossible in the propaganda of the last generation detergents (remember? "Fighting the dirtiest dirt"). Because good propaganda teaches that only if you exasperate the problem will you be able to exasperate the remedies, proposing them as the only ones able to guarantee results. Therefore immigration has become, in the vocabulary of the Government, synonymous with insecurity, without distinctions between people and without attention to real data. In the same way, public employment has become, in this text, synonymous with absenteeism and idleness. To complete the promotional masterpiece, there are finally solutions that - not even to say - are always simple in writing and miracles in expectations. Minister Di Maio, this summer, with a microdecree, has abolished - his words - poverty in our country. Here six articles guarantee - and I quote from the report to the law - the immediate improvement of the administrative organisation. But if we go to practice, to the implementation of the measures envisaged, if we scratch the coated surface of the high-sounding intentions, we come across many inconsistencies and - even worse - the risk of criminalising an entire category of workers and workers. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , treating them all as potential smarties, people with little desire to do and less yet to do well. This is the approach that characterizes Article 2, which contains rules on combating absenteeism. You want to fight a hateful and intolerable phenomenon: fine, but you shoot in the pile with your eyes closed. If the Government had kept its eyes open, it would have noticed that, out of 3.5 million employees, the false attestation of the presence in service, concerned, in 2017, 89 cases. Eighty-nine tricks of the card, which I call scammers, and perhaps as many before and after them, have ruined the reputation of one of the most important sectors in our country, the reputation of millions of honest Italians, but the gross concreteness of the Executive is incapable of making distinctions. And on the same path of humiliation he proposes to introduce biometric verification systems, namely the use of fingerprints and video surveillance, in a combined arrangement that will cost us 35 million euros and that will match the risk factors perceived in public offices to those of so-called sensitive places and therefore subject to anti-terrorism measures. Shame! [[Applause from the PD Group]] As if that weren't enough, we try to convince ourselves that transforming a registry into the Pentagon will automatically increase its productivity. We try to convince ourselves that, by treating the employee as a possible criminal and downloading all the responsibility of a public administration in clear suffering, the provision of services will be immediately improved. But as I said in the premise, hostility and mistrust permeate the bill from the first article, the one that provides for the establishment of a maxipattuglia of sheriffs, identified in the inexplicable number of 53 and called Core of concreteness. Although incardinated in the Department of Public Service, the 53 sheriffs will work closely with the prefects, greatly accentuating the activity of control and intervention by the Ministry of the Interior and putting in fact the various administrations under consideration in a condition of commissioning. And this is perhaps the only dangerous difference between the new Core and the Public Service Inspectorate, which will remain active as well as other bodies with similar functions: ANAC, OIV, but also municipal and provincial secretaries, who will eventually overlap the role of the future group of specialists. Pulled a line, the duplication of subjects (for an expense that Confedir estimated in about four million euros) will lead to an inevitable bureaucratic burden, even of a defensive nature (it is called the defensive bureaucracy), which is poorly reconciled with ambitious objectives such as the recovery of efficiency in production and quality in the provision of services. Therefore, stripped of the bill of its intentions, nothing remains in terms of political capacity in addressing the complexity of the problems that grip our public sector and nothing in choosing the allocation of resources. It will not be enough to adjust the allocation of funds for the ancillary salary, provided for in Article 3, to remove a vote in favour of the Democratic Party, just as it will not be enough to unblock the turnover indicated in Article 4, since the Government only covers the quiescent exits of the previous year. Article 4 lacks an overview, as is the case in Article 5, which only provides a partial remedy to the effects generated by the failure of the publishing company Here! Group SpA. In fact, the bill fails to meet the legitimate expectations of support advanced by the companies affiliated with the issuing companies, on which, in addition to the other parties involved, the economic damage resulting from the insolvency of the failed successful tenderer fell. These are companies which, in addition to having anticipated the costs related to the actual performance of the cafeteria replacement service, such as the payment of raw materials and the remuneration of workers, will suffer serious economic repercussions, also due to the chirografial nature of their debt. Overall vision and structural measures: this is the concreteness expected of a government that defines itself as change. The obligation for administrations to draw up the staff requirements plan, written as we find it in the measure, will have no positive consequence without real industrial plans, capable of making new recruitments consistent in numbers and skills. Similarly, the crusade will not serve to ensure physical presence in the workplace, without intervening on awareness, motivation and goals, as is the case in private companies. I want to be clear again: no justification - and I say no! - for us it is worthy of those who try to cheat the community, but it is very short-sighted to believe that this phenomenon is the origin of the evils of the public administration, a phenomenon that can be eradicated and that performances can be increased. Colleagues, in conclusion I would like to share with you the warning that Luigi Einaudi entrusted to his social policy lessons. Remember always, when you listen to someone who will promise you, safely sent, the certain solution of a social problem, which will offer you the specific for social diseases (...) remember that the one who speaks to you in this way is, at best, an illusory and more likely a charlatan and be wary of it. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u158	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u160	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Bongiorno and the rapporteur, who have made themselves clear and who have already given a number of answers on the subject to what has been said instrumentally. Quoting Nanni Moretti, it has been said that words are important. We have chosen the word "concreteness" for the measure under consideration. Yesterday Senator Errani said that we must be humble and start from the bottom and we even considered the problem of food vouchers, because we care about what happens every day [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , not necessarily thinking about the major system reforms. Since words are important, I would remind you that yesterday Mrs Parente called for common sense. Well, after a disaster like the Midia Reform [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Perhaps it takes courage to come and say such things. In fact, we do not take lessons from those who have approved legislation such as the Madia reform. In this regard, I would like to point out that the implementing decrees have been rejected by the Constitutional Court. [[Applause from Senator Airola]] , because the Regions were asked for their opinion and the need for an agreement was not expected and the Council of State rejected them [[Applause from Senator Airola]] , in some passages, due to the lack of resources and evaluation systems. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Even the TAR rejected them by recognizing, with regard to the legislative decree, that digital public administration was illegitimate and unreasonable in principles. Therefore, hearing PD give advice to others, after what they have managed to do, is embarrassing. I repeat, it took a lot of courage for what Senator Laus said earlier. I'd like to continue. They accused us of checking instead of motivating employees. Well, do so after having provided remote control for private employees in the jobs act [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] ; to do so after adopting such measures, I think it is really embarrassing for them. I would also like to remind them that instead of motivating, they thought to fire in the trunk: just think that Renzi went to Sanremo, on November 29, 2017, to say that in forty-eight hours who had been caught in flagrant crime would be fired (the smart cards of the card). It was the City where an employee went to mark the badge in his underwear. By legislative decree no. 116 of 2016 they even predicted - I repeat - that after forty-eight hours they could intervene. For once I have to say that the Senator of Alphonsus has been more correct in retracing years and years of attempts, in saying that the theme does not end with the presence, but crosses it. Well, we'd like at least the citizens to meet them inside the offices, the civil servants. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And not in my underwear. It is true, it serves more, it absolutely serves to look at the quality of the work that is produced, it serves to motivate; but it serves first of all that the employees are there. That is why we prefer the policy of small steps to major system reforms, which have been rejected several times: step by step, to improve public administration in the interests of citizens and businesses, because I would say that we all agree on the need for it. To Senator Patriarch I would like to remind you that there is an article in the single text that recognizes to the prefects some functions also for the local authorities. So as long as the laws are there, we think they should be respected. To my colleague, Mr Toffanin, who made the minority report for the Forza Italia Group, I would like to remind you of some passages in Law No 15 of 2009 by the then Minister Brunetta. We are amateurs compared to some statements and proposals by Brunetta. I also say this to my colleague Floris: while he, when he was mayor in Cagliari, rewarded the deserving employees who retired with a medal, in the same months Minister Brunetta provided for the possibility of concluding disciplinary proceedings - it was the letter b) of Article 7 of Law No 15 of 2009 - even on the slope of criminal judgment. As a guarantee, it's not bad. So taking lessons from you, who have done actions in this sense, we don't accept it. I also recall that the same law, in Article 4, even provided that privacy did not apply to civil servants: the provisions on privacy do not apply to civil servants. So much so that the year after the article was canceled. CANGINI (FI-BP). You voted for it, too! BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Exactly: we stayed in that direction, obviously you didn't. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the FI-BP Group. Ironic applause from Senator Moles]] In fact, we believe - but I will also remind the colleagues of Brothers of Italy - that those who work in the public are nevertheless privileged, because they are at the service of their community, and must behave accordingly. On those two scales we believe that the public interest of a country and a people is worth more than that of the individual, when the individual behaves badly. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] To the colleagues of Brothers of Italy I would like to remind these words: For years on the right we have supported the need for zero tolerance on the part of politicians towards absenteeized public servants, because they are people who steal their wages offend the millions of unemployed and the many honest workers of the public administration. We have not been able to do so many of the reforms we had proposed for the opposition of the left and the trade unions. Today it seems that Renzi's left has believed and that you want to go all the way on this. Since we are not like the left, Matteo Renzi, if he wants to be serious about this issue, we guarantee the support of Brothers of Italy from now on. "This said Giorgia Meloni on 18 January 2016. At least we would like to have the confidence that you said you wanted to put in Renzi, because Mrs Rauti said that those who went to work once did so by singing, unfortunately now sing those who make the card and then leave thinking that they have gabbed colleagues and citizens. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Coming to the content, we believe that this measure is absolutely innovative, contrary to what the PD claims, because to be innovative - I say more, revolutionary - a measure does not need to stratify by force with other laws. He can do this in two ways: by cutting the laws that are not needed (and I think that no one better than then Minister Calderoli could have demonstrated it, having deleted more than 400,000 useless norms, when he was Minister), but also by making concrete and implementing the laws in force. Minister Bongiorno recalled the disapplication of self-certification in public administrations. A few days ago in the 5th Budget Committee - as my colleague Mr Errani is witness - an amendment was proposed in the examination of the tax decree, which was absolutely worthwhile and which proposed that an administration should not request acts already in its possession from citizens and businesses. We said it was true, but there is already a law that provides for it. If a senator, in total good faith, comes to propose a law thinking it right and doesn't even know that that law already exists, because the administrations do not apply it, then it means that revolutionary in this country, first of all, is to make what already exists. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] This is what the Core needs, in full and full respect of the principle of loyal institutional collaboration, because it is right that the State and the Government should put the problem and take care of those municipalities that are not able, perhaps by size, to do so alone. It is good to be inspired by the criteria of effectiveness, efficiency and cost-effectiveness, but then in practice they must be implemented. I am beginning to conclude by saying that there is no need to go to NASA to implement biometric controls, for example. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] The electronic turnstiles, Senator Parente, proposed them in 2008 in Bologna a lit council member of the Cofferati junta, but master of turnstiles was Brunetta. On the payments we have smartphones that already provide the fingerprint. It is not only provided for in the prison regime for convicted persons. Mr Iannone proposed starting from Parliament. Well, Members vote with the fingerprint. If Members can do so, so can civil servants. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] This is why the League Group will vote in favour of the measure, because there is a proverb that says: If Muhammad does not go to the mountain, the mountain goes to Muhammad. With this measure the mountain of public administration for the first time moves towards the citizen. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u161	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u163	FLORIS (FI-BP). Mr Minister, I would like to say straight away that you do not need the defence that comes from the benches of your fellow members of the party, because I know that you can defend yourself much better than by using a defence that is official, but that does not have the characteristics of it. In fact, it would seem almost an act of indictment rather than defense. Having said that, we were confident, because of the characteristics of an innovative structure, worthy of a Government of the so-called change, recognizing them, Minister, the capacities and determination to reorganize the public administration. A reform that, taking into account the changing needs in the organisation of the state and the unavoidable need to simplify, presented a modern and effective text. Instead, we are in the presence of a measure that does not resemble a structure of law, but a commercial: so it has been defined by many who preceded me. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] So much propaganda, starting with the title, Minister, but a very weak discipline, partly inconsistent, partly overlapping and partly contrary to existing provisions. A draft, moreover, examined too quickly in the Commission and then by this branch of Parliament, which perhaps even distorted its scope. It would have been better to hold back more, discuss more and try to share what is good and maybe change what we think is not so positive. A very unconcrete text has therefore come out. The objectives of this bill have been pursued for almost forty years in the public administration. I do not recall the successes - indeed the different failures - of those who preceded it, from the reform of Madia to that of Cassese, some forty years ago, to those of Bassanini, Brunetta and so on, as well as the attempt to include in a law delegates a series of principles to be filled with the issuing of delegated decrees. It was now necessary to replace the idea of delegation law and delegated decrees with a reasoned timetable of the measures to be examined and entrusted to Parliament for any changes after hearing the parties to the case, but that was not the case. We are considering a measure which deals with issues that are marginally relevant to the overall reorganisation of the public administration. We are sure that any intervention and attempt to change should have been preceded by a gigantic piece of simplification, Minister, not that which you, according to the newspapers I read this morning, such as the 'Il Sole 24 ORE', announced, that they judge nothing but the creation of a labyrinth of committees, working groups, directing booths and so on. This is regrettable because, in addition to the Core of concreteness, who knows what awaits us in the simplification document that has been announced. Before the adoption of this law, a process of simplifying the process of applications for authorisation should have been carried out in order to enable citizens and businesses to build and open economic and professional activities: this should be the first of the measures. Simplification must also be accompanied by a complete digitisation of procedures, which could make it possible to operate faster in both requests and responses to citizens. It is obvious that, if ex ante procedures were simplified, ex post controls could be maintained, ensuring that there were no abuses, but drawing on a certainly lower staff requirement. I mean, this bill, in my opinion, already looks old. It has a non-innovative approach to how the overall reorganisation of public machinery should be addressed. It contains rules that create new structures and that are nothing more than duplications - as I said before and as we said in this House - of existing structures and directions at the Ministry of Civil Service. We do not say that, but it has been noted by a number of authoritative personalities, heard in the Commission during the hearings. I am not talking about the Core of concreteness, because I am more interested in talking about the plan of recruitment: the one envisaged is linear and does not take into account the real needs; it is not subsequent to a reorganization - or at least to its announcement - that can be a reference for us, to identify the strictly necessary assumptions. Minister, here we run the risk of adding staff where there is already one, because we are talking about a replacement based on 100% of the resources of the previous year, but we do not know where it can really be useful. We know that there are areas in need of immediate staff. We know that school is the sector that needs immediate intervention, without neglecting the health sector, where there is a shortage of 220,000 units, including 25,000 basic doctors. In the public administration there are some excellences, which are recorded - as is the case in the private sector - where there is an important reference to the quality of work, which makes it possible to highlight the reward and profit. We know that in public administration the logic of profit cannot be included. However, Minister, you have not included anything that can replace that concept of evaluation which, in private, derives from the greater profit of the enterprise. This is not provided for in the public administration, but there are monitoring and evaluation systems that should be included. Not profit? Then find another evaluation tool that is comparable to the world of private work. We want public work to be really more efficient and effective. We'd like it to look a lot like private work. With reference to the association between the public and the private world we have examples of great skill of the job. I am thinking of the field of health, universities and various industries which, by combining public and private work, gain international benefits. In addition, it must always be borne in mind that a State with a proper place for workers on the basis of needs also allows to alleviate public expenditure, with positive implications for all citizens. In fact, this is not something foreign to the lives of citizens, as it is the latter who maintain public spending. We would like a more agile state to respond more quickly and to make simplification its main objective. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] On the other hand, other systems, such as e-invoicing, and the burden on the citizen are introduced. Clearly this does not fall within your remit, Minister, but I say this to highlight the fact that this Government increases the pressure and obligations of the citizen towards public administrations, with a consequent increase in costs. Mr President, I shall conclude. The reform under consideration seems to be built on the basis of bureaucracy and by those who want everything to change so that nothing changes, as Giuseppe Tomasi of Lampedusa said. Efficiency is an aspect that really cares about us at Forza Italia. We would have gladly supported a reform that would lead to the simplification and efficiency of the bureaucratic machinery. I agree with what Mr Laforgia said earlier, which I like to mention, because a functioning state is really everyone's interest. Senator Laforgia, I take your example because you sit right in front of me on the other side of the House. We certainly do not share the same political sentiment, but on some of the results we like to agree. Minister, we await with great interest the simplification measure (I do not know what you want to call it), but on the draft law under consideration - we regret to say so - we cannot agree and therefore announce the contrary vote of the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Mr President, I would ask you to attach the full text of my speech to the Minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u164	Senator Floris, the presidency authorizes you to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u165	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u167	MATRISCIAN (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, members of the Government, Minister, the measure we are about to adopt contains interventions for the concreteness of the actions of public administrations and the prevention of absenteeism and was born from the need to achieve effective simplification of public administration in an era of digital transformation and continuous change in the world of work. The basic idea is to work on concrete procedures to make public administration more efficient. First of all, the draft law provides for the establishment of the so-called Core concreteness, a team that will act in support of public administrations, for their good performance and for the improvement of their efficiency, providing suggestions and working methods in close collaboration with territorial prefectures. This seeks to help the public administration and in case of non-compliance corrective actions will be agreed in accordance with the managerial functions. To those who claim that this body is overlapping and will overload public administrations we intend to explain that the Core will have a purely organisational function, which has nothing to do with the Inspection of the Civil Service and the Unit for the simplification and quality of regulation. In this regard, I would like to point out that the Movimento 5 Stars presented an agenda, which was also accepted by the Government, which represents the transposition of what was proposed by the National Association of Italian Municipalities (ANCI) during the hearings, which did not seem to us contrary to the establishment of the Core concreteness, but required a series of simplifications on the system of controls to which local authorities are subject today. We therefore hope that controls will be simplified and rationalised so that the task of the Core can be made easier and more effective. The PD will certainly agree with this, as it has tabled an amendment that echoed the same subject. To be honest, we must point out that the G4100 agenda incorporates the debate in the Commission on the strengthening of competences and therefore the training proposed by the Senator Parent of the PD. In addition, Amendment 2.14 incorporates and accepts what has been said by the Data Protection Supervisor at the hearing, adding to the text compliance with the principles of proportionality, non-excessiveness and graduality set out in Article 5 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. The keywords of this bill are therefore unlocking the turnover, to give life to the generational replacement that will lead to new recruitments in the administrations, and biometric surveys against the so-called smart cards. Italy is often referred to as the country of the clever. I personally would not continue to call them smart cards, because for us they are simply dishonest employees and, because of a minority of dishonests, to take responsibility and to be considered idlers are often all civil servants. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] "Male don't do, fear not having" recites an ancient proverb. I have had the opportunity to talk and confront with civil servants who see in the bill finally concrete the end of this Italian misconception. The introduction in Italy of biometric detection to identify who enters the workplace is finally a measure that also acts on the prevention of unfair behavior and will force absentees and dishonests to renounce strange games in the stamping of their badge and that of colleagues. Therefore, the text that we are going to vote on is an important tool to protect those in the public administration who have always done their duty, working with professionalism and honesty. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] We also hope for the introduction of the fingerprint vote here in the Senate, as it already takes place in the other branch of Parliament, so as to avoid the unfair behavior that unfortunately still exists today. Of course, we agree that the only physical presence at the workplace is not enough to ensure high performance. For this reason it is necessary to increase the motivation of the employees and it can be done through an improvement of the working conditions and contractual renewals. If we are, however, in this situation we owe it only and exclusively to the total immobility of politics over the last twenty years. Another important pillar of this measure, as we have already said, is the unblocking of the turnover that will have to bring new lifeblood and new recruits to the offices of the public administration. A generational replacement of quality, with new professionalism and skills, digitisation, rationalisation and simplification of administrative processes and procedures, quality of public services, management of structural funds and investment capacity, public contracting, specialists in the use of European funds and management control. This measure has also been criticized for its name: concreteness. But we are now accustomed to these criticisms and, as we did for the decree of dignity, we reaffirm that our measures bear the name of the values that are fundamental to us, those values that citizens and workers ask of us every day. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In response to the minority rapporteur of the Forza Italia Group, we want to point out that, going a little deeper on the issue of the 53,000 jobs less than the dignity decree would have produced, we must specify, however, that 37% of the companies that responded to Federmeccanica have declared that they will transform precarious contracts into stable contracts, while 33% have not yet responded. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In short, it's not everything you want to make appear, since the stabilizations will be more than cessations. Having said that, I conclude my speech by saying that we can therefore only support the fundamental pillars of this bill, which are: innovation, honesty and efficiency. That is why the 5 Star Movement will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u168	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole in the amended text as a result of the amendments introduced in the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[v. Annex B. Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 2.05 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u169	The next item is the immediate questions (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism, the Minister for the Environment and Land and Sea Protection and the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Durnwalder has the right to explain question 3-00452 on the announced draft government law on simplification and modernisation in the fields of agriculture, tourism and horse-riding, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u170	Mr President, one of the key objectives of the government's action, as set out in the Update Note to the 2018 Economic and Financial Document presented in Parliament on 4 October 2018, is to simplify procedures in the agricultural sector, to free up resources for projects of excellence and quality and to make it easier and less costly to conduct agricultural businesses, as well as to streamline and more effective the system of controls. The Government has also announced that a simplification pact will be established, to be established in the State-Regions Conference. It also stated that, among the various measures linked to the budget law, the draft law laying down provisions for the modernisation and innovation of the agriculture, tourism and horse riding sectors will also be presented. Given that the draft law announced and strongly awaited by the groups concerned has not yet been submitted to Parliament, the honourable Member would like to know what its state of development is, asking for more detailed information on its content than stated in the Update Note to the DEF, as well as the timing of the submission of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u171	The Minister for Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism, Senator Centinaio, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u172	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Ministry I represent includes a series of competences, all relevant and strategic, because they are fundamental to the economic, productive and social fabric of our country, on which we have a duty to invest strongly in order to contribute to an overall revival of the growth of consumption and investment. Agriculture has undergone changes not only resulting from climate change, but also from the need to make production more environmentally sustainable and of greater quality. In the light of these facts, it is necessary to increase the capacity of farmers to access innovation. It is in the interest of the Government, and my staff, to start as soon as possible a process of modernization of the agricultural, agri-food and tourism sectors, for which, however, it is necessary to wait for the necessary delegations to be formalized. For the moment, therefore, I can only point out the many objectives that we propose to achieve with the wider collaboration of the Regions, through a real "pact for simplification," to be sanctioned at a unified conference. In particular, the draft law referred to by the honourable Member will contain rules for simplification and reordering of agriculture and administrative checks on product quality. In this direction, we will organise the provisions for homogeneous sectors or subjects and facilitate the administrative requirements of agricultural undertakings for the granting of aid and/or regional, national and Community support under the Common Agricultural Policy. The creation of a single system of controls on product quality, on regulated quality products, as well as avoiding duplication, will enable us to protect consumers more and remove barriers to trade and distortions of competition. We also intend to strengthen the system for recording the prices and production costs of companies and to establish a national coordination framework for the development and promotion of precision agriculture. The reordering of the rules on agri-food fraud and the rules on tourism, within the limits of the competences established under Title V of the Constitution, are also among the aims that we will pursue promptly as soon as Parliament's consent is there. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u173	I give the floor to Senator Durnwalder to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u174	Minister, thank you for your words, especially as regards the intention to involve the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano in this process of simplification in the drafting of the relevant discipline.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u175	Senator De Petris has the power to explain the question 3-00448 on the environmental reclamation of the territory of the Sacco valley, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u176	Minister, you have seen in recent days - I believe also visually and concretely - the episodes that have affected the Sacco river, covered in foam, that have repeated themselves also these days. It's just now the news that ARPA would have detected the presence of surfactants above normal. However, the problem of the Sacco river is much older. As you know, the SIN Basin of the Sacco river has also been established, because the whole situation of that area, between the provinces of Rome and Frosinone and along the entire river auction, is unfortunately the subject of serious environmental pollution. Moreover, the investigation of irregularities in the purifier of ASI consortia has recently been added. How much already emerged during the operations of characterization of the industrial area of Colleferro and Anagni and some industrial sites, has evidenced not only the practice of the burial of industrial waste in order to avoid - as we know perfectly - the burdens of disposal, but have added other types of pollution ancient, and perhaps recent, to be attributed to the industrial activities: have been poured, for over twenty years, the discharges of waste water and all the industrial activities without any purification. The situation in that territory is therefore very serious and is seriously affecting the health of citizens. Minister, the data contained in the technical report on the health surveillance and epidemiology of the population living near the Sacco River - which I hope you have seen - are very alarming in relation to the onset of cancer. I therefore ask you what you intend to do also to speed up reclamation and, above all, immediately, for a further survey of sources of pollution. [[Applause from Senator Errani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u177	The Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea, General Costa, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u178	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the honourable Member. Indeed, the problem of the SIN, in the case of the Basin of the river Sacco, is particularly significant and not from now on, as we know, so much so that, precisely, it is declared a site of national interest. In this sense, the Government has allocated 40.8 million euros and we are defining the programme agreement to speed up the disbursement of funds and make it operational immediately. This is already an element of first response, i.e. funds immediately available. We are doing this work together with the Region of course because, as you know, the coordination is of the State but the planning, the program agreement, vice versa, is of the Region, so we are working with four hands, and, in my opinion, also quite well. It appears that the so-called foam, i.e. the surfactants that have recently been found, should come from a lack of purification of the industrial development area (ASI). Obviously, following this first check, we had a feedback from the ARPA Lazio and the Harbour office (which, as a Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, I immediately sent through the so-called RAM, marine environmental department), according to which they are precisely surfactants, therefore with a probable industrial origin. We are now making subverifications, to check what type of surfactants it is and to then obviously go back to the production chain. This is a path that will then arrive at the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Frosinone, where a file for environmental disaster has been opened. As part of the talk about the Sacco River, we will meet in the next few days the 19 mayors who asked us to meet, to fully understand their individual needs; I believe that this meeting is scheduled for 20 December. I also add that recently, ten days ago, I signed with the Lazio Region the air quality plan in the SIN area of the Sacco valley, with some interesting elements, such as air quality, i.e. the verification and material monitoring of air quality by the ARPA, plus other elements that concern for example emissions into the atmosphere by the stoves or machines of the area, favoring with an economic chip of about 10 million euros the subjects who want to make this path in our favor. So there is a package of actions that we are putting together and that we are literally compiling and defining between the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea and the Lazio Region. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u179	Senator De Petris has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u180	Minister, thank you for this further information on the progress that is being made in relation to the programme agreement. However, I would like to point out - and I think you are as aware of this as I am, Minister - that the pollution situation is so serious that, of course, EUR 40 million is not enough. Perhaps they will be enough to start, but certainly the necessary resources, as in the case of many other SINs, are remarkable. So we should all try to increase these funds; we will do so with our amending proposals to the draft budget law. Another absolutely important issue - I say this because the program agreement is also with the Lazio Region - is that you no longer have to bring other polluting activities in that area. The first question is that it is necessary to close once and for all with the transfer of waste from other areas of the Region and even from other Regions, because otherwise on the one hand we are looking for resources to intervene and to start the work of reclamation and on the other we cannot stop the pollution even at this date, because we continue to enter polluting activities, which in that area are absolutely no longer bearable. We should perhaps try to convert certain activities, but certainly not bring other polluting and impacting activities. [[Applause from Senator Errani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u181	Senator Ruspandini has the right to explain question 3-00451 on pollution of the Sacco River and environmental protection measures for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u182	Minister, the Chief Prosecutor of Frosinone has recently opened a file for multiple environmental disasters, after the very recent incidents mentioned earlier, in which the Sacco River has been completely covered by white foam. The Sacco, which crosses the provinces of Rome and Frosinone, is one of the most polluted rivers in Europe, with a high presence of beta-hexachlorocarbamate, a waste of lindane processing, a powerful pesticide. Recent studies show that these pollutants have entered the food chain, therefore in the homes and inhabitants of the area, detecting obvious connections between environmental pollution and the frequency of cancer diseases of the residents. We ask what urgent measures this Government intends to adopt for the reclamation and the safeguard of the environment and the protection of the quality of life of the citizens of the valley of Sacco and if it does not consider necessary to invest more human and economic resources in the activity of monitoring, coordination and control of all processes that regulate the mechanism of management of the discharges of the numerous companies of the industrial zone, in particular on the operation of the ASI purifier. Minister, I greatly appreciated your work in the Land of Fires. You know that in the southern part of the province of Frosinone next to the lands you have dealt with, there was also - to listen to some repentances of camorra - a heavy burial of toxic waste. In the north of the province, however, after the economic boom, factories of the chemical sector gave rise to a wild development, at a historical moment when there was not even the hypothesis of environmental crime. What he does not know is that I am from Ceccano, one of the martyrs of this environmental disaster and that I come from a political side that denounced the drama of the Sacco valley, when, for example, Grillo was still a comedian, in the years when DC and PCI flooded the Ciociaria with jobs and it was not easy to take sides against that mechanism. We know that mechanism very well, Minister. I myself have always been against this reasoning that binds ASI, some industries of the province, the men more representative of the PD and than from councilman, provincial councilor, city councilor and provincial councilor, now as senator, fight always. So we're not doing any discounts, because we've heard a lot of promises. They told us, starting with Zingaretti to all the environmentalists of Lazio, that we had to convert that area to the model of the Ruhr. We have heard only words, while the hospitals in Rome, in the oncology departments, are full of citizens of my territory. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u183	The Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea, General Costa, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u184	Mr President, I would like to thank the Senator. Some of the things I will say, of course, are the same things I said in the previous answer. It is clear that we know perfectly well what has happened. At the moment when that foam in the Sacco River recently emerged, we immediately sent the RAM technicians and the Carabinieri to make the first investigations together with the Higher Institute of Health, just for the reasons you mentioned, with the local health facilities, ISPRA and ARPA. That's being sampled, we said before, they're surfactants. We are verifying that other types of sub-agents exist to reach the chain of the so-called culprit, but these things concern, at this point, the prosecutor of the Republic. We can talk about the SIN and the EUR 40.8 million, which are actually needed to finally start the path, with this programme agreement that we are accelerating, but that is not enough. But if you don't start, you don't even end, as you said, and then after the many promises there are finally resources to start a journey. The same goes for the talk of purification. You know much better than I do that purification is obviously not a national competence, but it is a regional competence, there is the regional plan, it is clear that we can do a moral suasion and, as they say, exercise that strong control that the State has the duty and also the right to exercise, without prejudice to the competences referred to in Article 117 of the Constitutional Charter. I tell you and confirm, for what is my so-called previous life, that actually in that part of the territory of the so-called lower Lazio I questioned them with camorristes and told me where they were and where probably they are still certain garbage, which are obviously under the watchful eye of the police forces and the judicial authority. Therefore, that path that I suspended on May 31 of this year to come and do the Minister the next day, I can confirm to you, as General of the Carabinieri, that he is continuing. It is clear that it will enter into the reasoning of orphan sites, because unfortunately those will no longer be sites with a name and a surname. I am trying to create a bill, which is called "My Land," which also provides for the reclamation of so-called orphan sites, which alas are neither SINs nor SIRs, but which we are finally qualifying from the legal point of view, otherwise we cannot even reclaim nor name economically. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u185	Senator Ruspandini has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u186	Minister, thank you. We and our people place so much hope in this new governance of the problem. We will watch with all our strength so that we do not lose sight of this drama. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u187	Senator Gallone has the right to explain the question 3-00454 on the financing of interventions against hydrogeological failure, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u188	Mr President, Minister, I begin with a parenthesis to express my satisfaction with the Memorandum of Understanding you signed yesterday with the MIUR on the hours of environmental education in schools, which was then, as you know, a proposal contained in a bill presented by the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] So, we're very pleased to share. Turning to the subject of the question, it is known that the Italian territory has characteristics of high hydrogeological risk, but are less known the numbers, disturbing, according to which more than 7 million inhabitants live in vulnerable zones, more than a million in areas at risk of landslides, more than 5.5 million in areas however at risk and, moreover, 6 million others live in zones at risk of floods. For the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA) there are nine regions with 100 percent of municipalities at hydrogeological risk: the Valle d'Aosta, Liguria, Emilia-Romagna, Tuscany, Umbria, Marche, Molise, Basilicata and Calabria, to which we must add the Abruzzo, Lazio, Piedmont, Campania, Sicily and the Province of Trento, with percentages between 90 and 100 percent. 91 percent of Italian municipalities and more than 3 million households live in territories classified as highly dangerous. The area potentially subject to landslides exceeds 8 percent of the national territory and the potentially floodable one reaches 25,400 square kilometers. So, overall, 16.6 percent of the territory is mapped into the most dangerous classes for landslides and floods. And again, almost 4% of Italian buildings - we are talking about about 550,000 buildings - are located in areas with high and very high landslide danger. No less worrying is the figure concerning cultural heritage, which is then our Italy. Thus, ISPRA data always identifies nearly 38,000 assets in landslide areas. We all know the causes of this situation, which are disparate: the extreme works of urbanization... When I see the microphone flashing, I get anxiety, because I have to finish running. Mr President, since the other Members have been good and have remained in time, I would ask you to give me a few more minutes... you won't give me that, okay. Since this situation costs too much both in economic terms and in environmental terms and in terms of lost human lives and an awareness that it is planned to set up a fund for the investments of the territorial authorities, in part intended precisely for interventions against the disaster, I would therefore ask the Minister that the Government give concrete answers to the citizens, the territorial authorities and the companies that have lost much. Finally, I would ask you to know how this investment fund will be distributed, because doing it organically and structurally is important. Finally, I would like to announce that the Forza Italia Group has presented a bill for the establishment of a special Commission for the mapping and prevention of failure and an organic reform of the hydrogeological system in Italy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u189	The Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea, General Costa, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u190	Mr President, Senator Gallone, I would like to take this opportunity to confirm that yesterday, with the MIUR, we actually signed a good thing and perhaps we will also be able to put it in the Three-Year Plan of Training (PTOF), through a rule, and with its contribution it will be able to help us even more. Having said that, Article 16 of the draft budget actually provides for some EUR 3 billion for local authorities, and then we see how this law will be dismissed by Parliament. It is clear, however, that in order to understand how it will be managed, we must inevitably wait to see how it will be approved first. I therefore assure you of maximum transparency and I invite you to agree on future talks on this subject, but one minute after this rule has become State law. In the meantime, without prejudice to this presumed allocation of EUR 3 billion, which will become a reality once the law is passed, I can tell you what we already have. There is in fact a plan for the emergency and a plan for the structuring in order to the hydrogeological failure, that at this moment is already factual, with 6,5 billion total for the structuring of the interventions. This is the most important thing, because it allows you to avoid getting into emergency. In fact, on the hydrogeological failure we are too often, if not always, living in emergency. As you know, Senator Gallone, the emergency is being managed by the Presidency of the Council, and precisely by the Civil Protection Department. For the last emergency on the disaster, for example, EUR 400 million have been allocated because, as an emergency, they must be recovered immediately. But the important thing is the 6.5 billion and perhaps even more (we are looking for them in the Cohesion Funds, but it is already 6.5 billion). How do we handle them? On three-year splits and annual orders of 900 million each, that is, real money. Together with the Regions, then at the Permanent State-Regions Conference, we are in agreement amending the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 28 May 2015, that on the speeding up of the supply of resources, in order to reduce the instalments of payment to three; to anticipate the intervention of the district authority of basin; to ensure that the validation of the executive projects does not take place on subjects that are diversified among themselves, as it is today. This keeping always at the head of the Presidents of the Regions, who are appointed, as was previously, also extraordinary commissioners for the hydrogeological failure, according to the principle of territorial and environmental proximity that we care about. That is why, in fact, the Permanent State-Regions Conference has already proved to be in agreement with this line. We are speeding it up and the real resources are there. We are now waiting for executive projects, because without them these money should be spent unnecessarily. At this moment we are at the stage in which we are alongside the Regions in the process of capacity building in order to have executive projects. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u191	Senator Gallone has the power to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u192	Minister, thank you and I am partially satisfied, because the Forza Italia Group will monitor and verify how they are actually placed. However, I would like the Government to pay real attention not only to support the municipalities, the regions and this organic plan to work together, but above all to try to involve all the actors involved. It is precisely these days that we are discussing the draft law on soil consumption in the Environment Commission. This is a very important thing. In our opinion, we need to review the framework law on urban planning, because we are faced with plans of government of the obsolete, outdated, slow territory, that drive away investment, where cities now become central in economic systems; and we want cities to be able to regenerate within them. To do this we must also support businesses, citizens, agriculture, all worlds. This is a really great job in concert, but if change has to be, if there really is a revolution, otherwise it is useless and they remain proclamations. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u193	Senator Floridia has the right to explain the question 3-00449 on the authorisation for the operation of the refinery in Milazzo, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u194	Minister, the refinery in Milazzo, in the province of Messina, insists in an area at high risk of environmental crisis, following an assessment of the levels of pollution and the significant incidence of diseases related to them. Since 2005 it has been a SIN, i.e. a site of national interest for the purpose of reclamation. Moreover, in December 2016 the Sicilian Region finally approved the landscape plan of that area. In May, before you, Minister, settled, by ministerial decree, you updated the integrated environmental authorisation granted to the company Raffineria di Milazzo, for the precisely exercise of the refinery. In our opinion, however, the procedural steps that have led to the update of the integrated environmental authorisation (IAA) need to be clarified in the primary interest of the populations of the affected areas and of a territory that has long complained and suffers in a worrying way the effects of environmental pollution, with obvious and heavy repercussions, as already pointed out, on the health situation. It is noted that administrators of the municipalities concerned have repeatedly highlighted and made present, through official documentation, the environmental criticalities of the Apple area. Consider the fact that, in the documentation presented by the refinery in Milazzo, no reference is made to the landscape plan, according to which in that area it must gradually and progressively, obviously without repercussions on employment levels, make room for a productive conversion, compatible with the landscape. Finally, I would like to point out that, in the course of the procedure which led to the release of the update of the AIA, the reasons and oppositions expressed by as many as four municipalities in the surrounding area have been unfairly underestimated. I would add that there are also strong concerns about the way in which the Conference of Services of March 2018 is conducted, verbalized and concluded. In view of this, Minister, we ask you whether you are aware of the situation; whether you intend to intervene in order to withdraw, even partially, under the protection regime, the AIA and, finally, what steps you intend to take to ensure environmental protection and, of course, the consequent right to the health of citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u195	The Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea, General Costa, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u196	Mr President, we are actually talking about an area where there is a very complicated situation. Let us not forget that this is basically the same place where we wanted to open a waste-to-energy plant, which was not authorised by the Council of Ministers. Senator Floridia, if I may, I would remember some dates, which I wanted to score because for me they are topical. In September 2014, a major accident occurred in that refinery. The review of the Integrated Environmental Authorisation (IAA) was provided for in April 2016. In December 2017 there was another spill of hydrocarbons at sea in that area. In a moment you will understand why I call these dates back. In March 2018 were deposited by the territory and the exponential bodies of the territory also the health profiles of the citizens who live in that area, with obvious considerations between the environmental injury and the disease rate that affects the populations of the area. In March 2018, however, the AIA Committee did not assess the health records and, in April, the ISPRA went on a visit. Well, in May 2018, so recently - we settled on 1 June of the current year - AIA is granted for twelve years. Last July I asked ISPRA to know the concrete results of the environmental inspection visit. This allowed me in October, examined the paperwork, to formally and officially distrust the refinery to the exact and I would say rigorous examination of environmental requirements. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Papatheu]] The first act to be able to intervene differently forcefully - you will understand what I mean, Senator - is the warning to comply, which I formally had notified in October of this year. In any case, I have also formally deleted the AIA Committee, which we will now rebuild with health experts, because unfortunately this was not foreseen. We therefore estimate to leave for the first week of January with the call, as we did with the environmental impact assessment (IA) and the strategic environmental assessment (VAS), to identify experts in the various disciplines, of AIA in this case, including experts dealing with the world of health. I don't want to be there anymore. What's the logic for me? No more wigs, and she understood what I mean. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Papatheu.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u197	I have the right to speak in response to Senator Floridia for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u198	Minister, to say that I am fully satisfied perhaps not enough, because for the first time the valley of the Apple feels words of comfort. I would also like to thank you publicly, Minister, for intervening in the closure of the incinerator which should have arisen in that area. I am more than fully satisfied because to date little or nothing has been done for environmental protection and health, so much so that there is a way called wigs. The even partial review of the AIA service conference and the new AIA commission for us are truly hopeful elements for an area that wants to get back on its feet. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Papatheu.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u199	Senator Romeo has the power to illustrate the question 3-00450 on the development of the traffic goods on the Milan-Chiasso railway line and the works to protect the center of Monza, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u200	Mr President, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, I would like to point out that the Milan-Como-Chiasso railway line is destined to become a high-speed freight line, connected to the Swiss Gotthard tunnel (according to the Swiss Alptransit project). On the line will be previewed, to regime, the transit of 220-250 convoys per day, in the arc of the twenty-four hours - inter alia on a line already abundantly trafficked - composed mainly from trolleys container port and semi-trailers, long up to 800 meters, with a space of 4 meters in height and an average cargo that exceeds 2.000 tons. The quadrupling of the line had been foreseen; then the funds initially placed years ago on the target law have not been confirmed; therefore, action has been taken on the line; existing especially in the node of Monza, crucial from the railway point of view, in the attempt to improve it, replacing the tracks in order to adapt them to the new technologies and lowering the railway chair in the inside to the tunnel. Otherwise, the convoys, with their height, would not have passed, in an urban gallery 450 meters long which, among other things, dates back to 1847 and was expanded in 1963. Feeling the inhabitants of the area, every time a train passes, underneath there are remarkable vibrations and above all there is a certain danger, because at the entrance of the tunnel there is a curve. Therefore, according to the concerns of some city committees in the past, it would never be possible to arrive at accidents that could cause considerable damage and put people's safety at risk. Since the route crosses the historic centre of Monza, the request is if you do not think it appropriate, Minister, to work to ensure that the tunnel is subjected to a preventive and complete verification of static and safety; that sufficient noise barriers are created on both sides of the tracks; to establish specific speed limits at the entrance of the tunnel and along the entire route inside the town; to evaluate the hypothesis, suggested by some citizens and experts, to hijack part of the trains on alternative routes, more suitable for transit of freight trains. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Senator Toninelli, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u201	Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Senator, stating that, on what he said, the National Railway Safety Agency (ANSF) had already asked for precise elements from the Italian Railway Network (RFI), the railway infrastructure manager, on the structural conditions of the tunnel and the noise of the trains, as well as an internal assessment of the incidental events of the route. For the structure of the gallery, the Italian Railway Network has communicated that there are no particular criticalities, also in the outcome of the periodic visits. In fact, the codes of judgement assigned in the inspection visits carried out in the period 2003-2018 (the last visit took place on 1 June of this year) are always of reduced value. Moreover, in 2014-2016, the gallery was the subject of works at the structure and no criticalities were detected, not even to third parties. With regard to vibrations, the Italian railway network notes that there are no significant problems, also due to a specific intervention carried out on the infrastructure through the insertion of vibration devices; while, as regards noise, the process for the installation of two barriers located in the route between the Municipality of Sesto San Giovanni and the railway station of Monza, as well as an additional barrier placed to the protection of some condominiums north of the Monza tunnel is underway. As far as possible speed limits are concerned, I would remind you that while freight transport is structurally at a maximum speed of 120 km/h entering the Monza station from the North, the maximum speed is 90 km/h. From the data relating to the years 2017 and 2018 do not emerge major accidents related to problems to the structure of the gallery on the urban route of Monza. In addition, by 2020 there will be a technological upgrade project that will allow to manage up to 12 trains per hour per route, ensuring the coexistence of regional, long-distance and freight traffic, as well as the installation of a system to ensure interoperability on international routes. For freight traffic it is previewed that they can circulate long trains up to 750 meters and suitable for the transport of semi-trailers and traveling highway. The works for the Monza gallery fall under this category of interventions and will end in stages between 2019 and 2020. Regarding the possibility of alternative itineraries, to date from the pass of Chiasso there are no conditions to hijack the traffic goods on other itineraries so as not to interest the inhabited center of Monza. Even an itinerary via Seregno-Carnate-Bergamo would have limitations due to reasons of capacity, as well as infrastructure limitations at Bergamo and Seregno stations and online. Finally, the Italian railway network has highlighted further interventions on the line to improve the punctuality of the circulation and the conditions of circulation to the station of Monza, with an arrangement that allows a more efficient and effective management of the trains inside it. These interventions will be started with the resources of the program contract Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport (MIT) - Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) - Parte investments 2017-2021. I conclude by announcing that further checks will be carried out, in addition to regular monitoring, within the Ministry's remit on the tunnel in question. ( [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u202	I give the floor to Senator Romeo to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u203	Minister, thank you for your timely and precise reply. We welcome what has been said about the installation of barriers, which will be greatly appreciated by citizens. The same applies to technological enhancement by 2020. We hope that the time will be respected because, when it comes to RFI, it is not always so. What interests us most, in addition to the works and interventions that are carried out on the tunnel, is the fact that you have put in place further checks on the static nature of the tunnel itself. On many occasions, when you ask questions, RFI always answers that everything is okay and everything is okay; then in reality it is not always so. The fact, therefore, that you have decided to make further speeches is the part that we like most about your reply. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u204	Senator Laus has the right to explain the question 3-00453 on the completion of the Turin-Lyon high-speed railway and its economic consequences for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u205	Minister, two are the background data on which I would like to focus your attention. The first figure is the macroeconomic and financial framework of our country, within which the gross domestic product decreases - according to the Istat data of a few days ago - decreases employment and increases net debt as a result of the budgetary maneuver, but grows for current expenditure and not for investments. Here is inserted the second fact, which concerns the speed of recovery and the competitiveness of our country: elements that depend to a good extent on the realization of important infrastructural works indispensable to equip itself with a system connected and integrated with the rest of Europe and capable of creating growth. On the subject of growth, France is preparing to ban the Frejus motorway tunnel from heavy goods vehicles with Euro 4 engines and to propose the application of a 5% extra toll on the section in question. The combination between the TAV Torino-Lion and the new conditions of use of the Frejus motorway tunnel risk to further isolate our country from the European context. Under these conditions, I ask the Minister when the technical structure responsible for carrying out the cost-benefit analysis of major infrastructure projects will be the date for the completion of the work by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport; if, pending the results of these evaluations, the time of which is still unknown, he intends to review the decision taken on the Turin-Lyon line, ensuring the execution of the related contracts already financed within the initially planned deadlines, as well as the continuation of the work in progress for all infrastructure works under assessment. I would also like to ask whether the conclusions of the work carried out by the responsible technicians' structure will be made known to Parliament and to the citizens with a specific and detailed document on all the works under investigation; whether it intends to make known, because of transparency, how much the public budget is charged in case of blockage of infrastructure works, and in particular those bound by international agreements, which require, in case of failure to implement, the payment of all the sums spent by the European Union and the other States. I would also like to know whether the Government intends to review the composition of the budget maneuver, transferring to the chapter infrastructure and public works part of the current expenditure initially planned for measures such as the income of citizenship and quota 100. Finally, Mr President, with the last question with which I would like to know what initiatives you intend to take with regard to the French Government, in order to prevent the transit of the Frejus road tunnel from being banned from heavy goods vehicles with Euro 4 engines and from being overloaded on the same route. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u206	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Senator Toninelli, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u207	Mr President, I thank the interrogators. I have already referred repeatedly to both the House and the Senate in response to questions that are quite similar to those of today, so I could limit myself to referring to and referring to the answers I have already made. [[Comments from the PD Group]] I repeat once again that the cost-benefit analysis will be made public, shared with the French Government and presented together with a parallel technical-legal analysis. The intercourse I have had with the French Government over the past few weeks, which is currently under way with the European Commission, is intended to pursue this path without - and I stress this without compromising - the availability of European funding, the failure of which has been instrumentally agitated by several parties. To make believe that all the infrastructural development of the Country depends on a single work seems to me evident is extremely reductive and offensive towards the Italians that on all the national territory ask for interventions that allow the ordinary to carry out everyday life. Moving safely is simply the minimum that a Government can give not only to citizens but also to businesses; a minimum that is currently not guaranteed in too many areas of Italy. I do not want to anticipate any judgement on the Turin-Lion route until the ongoing analyses are concluded, but I can say that the main reports that are coming to us concern other: they concern bridges that are closed and isolate entire communities; roads interrupted by structural failures caused by poor maintenance and carelessness; territories cut off from the absence of an adequate railway service. The whole of these interventions if reactivated, would not only give momentum to the economy bringing work throughout the national territory, but also safety and quality to the movements of all. MALPEZZI (PD). You're the Minister! Mr Rizzotti (FI-BP). Answer the questions! Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. These objectives will result in genuine structural reforms, starting with an imminent simplification of procurement. Mr Laus (PD). Answer the questions! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Laus, listen to the Minister's answer.He will declare himself unsatisfied. MALPEZZI (PD). The answer is not there! Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. As I was saying, these objectives will result in real structural reforms, starting with an imminent simplification of procurement, which will involve no less guarantees, but more streamlined procedures. We are dealing with the harmful consequences produced by the law that bears the name of my predecessor Delrio, who has caused the abandonment of the provincial roads - I invite many of those present, and especially the interrogators, to visit them - and we are doing so through the passage of part of these to ANAS. Mr Rizzotti (FI-BP). He's not answering! MALPEZZI (PD). Answer the questions! Mr Laus (PD). Answer the questions! Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. We are questioning the model of motorway concessions that, with the approval of previous governments, I have to my right and left... MALPEZZI (PD). And front, too! Tell them! Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. ...he made the fortune of the state takers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are doing this through a new pricing model for dealers, which will force them to invest part of their profits in maintenance, which has so far been lacking. Mr Rizzotti (FI-BP). Mr President, you are not answering the questions! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Rizzotti, each of the honourable Members has asked a question, to which the Minister answers, and the questioner will then declare his satisfaction or not. Since you are not even a questioner, Senator Rizzotti, if you are not satisfied with the answer, you can also leave the Chamber. Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. Mr President, obviously they want me to reiterate the fact that I am greatly proud of being challenged by political forces that have been misruling - and I am only saying wrong because I am a bit of a decent person - our wonderful country! [[Protests from the PD Group]] Mr Laus (PD). Shame on you! You're a minister! MALPEZZI (PD). Just answer it! Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. I hope that they will continue to challenge me, because for myself it means that I am doing the best for Italian citizens. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u208	Minister, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u209	Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. Mr President, I am about to conclude. Mr Laus (PD). Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Laus, this time I heard you screaming "Shamed." The first time I mark it, then the Presidency will take action. There was no improper expression on the part of the Minister. FADELI (PD). Yes, but listen to the Minister too, Mr President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He may or may not like what he says, but there has been no form of inappropriateness. [[Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. As I said, Mr President, we are doing this through a new pricing model for dealers, which will force them to invest part of their profits in maintenance, which has so far been lacking and which will be supervised by a new safety agency, promised since 2011, obviously never realized by the good ones, and which only thanks to us today sees the light. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] In order to return to normal, citizens ask for actions that they can benefit from immediately... MALPEZZI (PD). You're Minister, do it! Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. ...can't just wait for works that will eventually be in operation in a few decades. The initiatives that I have indicated are only some of the structural reforms that have already been carried out or to be carried out in the near future; reforms that, together with the adequate resources that we will insert into the budget law, represent our vision, our country project. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u210	Senator Margiotta may intervene in response for two minutes, which may express his assessments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u211	Mr President, I had no illusions that I could say, for once, that I was satisfied with Mr Toninelli's answers, but frankly, we have gone far beyond that. We listened to an embarrassed and embarrassing little party, no answers to our questions, a little demagogy so much to the kilo and some usual propaganda. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I would like to remind you that, when you govern, things are done and you do not propaganda, all the more so if you are Minister for Infrastructure. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The refract of cost-benefit analysis has become a broken record, although we have also heard other analyses; a broken, boring and senseless record. The choice is political, the problem is political. The Minister must have the courage to say: yes or no; this work is done or not done. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You say that we always ask you the same questions: but this happens because you do not give answers. The country doesn't need Pontius Pilate. The country needs a government that has and feels not only the right, but also the ethical duty to make its own choices and to declare them: yes or no, Minister. Take on your responsibilities. [[Applause from the PD Group]] But they can't do that, because the government, on this issue, is clearly divided. There is one party, in fact, that is opposed to the work and another, that of the majority shareholder, of the vice-premier Salvini - now clearly majority shareholder - who in this case, rightly, wants to do the work because he claims that the things begun end and are not left in half. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Instead, we face the problems with the same superficiality with which one day they say they want to wage war on Europe and then they go back, and with which they face the balconies to declare poverty ended. I'll finish. I have a lot to say, but I'm going straight to the conclusions. (Senator Margiott browses the notes.) LUCIDES (M5S). Find them! MARGIOTTA (PD). To remedy the economic, cultural and moral breakdown of this government will take months, perhaps years, but the country will succeed. Fortunately, it is strong enough to resist your disasters, your incompetence, your ignorance and your inability. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u212	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u213	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u214	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u215	ROMANO (M5S). Mr President, today's news is the arrest of a deputy prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Lecce, a local ASL executive and the arrangement of the housekeepers for other executives and a lawyer. The story revolves around some favors that the prosecutor would grant to other suspects - receiving in return benefits, stays and even sexual benefits - to win trials or pass state exams to become a lawyer. We can only thank those who have had the strength and courage to bring out this bad story of corruption, yet another bad story of corruption, namely the judiciary and the judicial police who, with their daily action, contribute to eradicate a phenomenon that must be fought also and above all from the cultural point of view. The judiciary is one of the three founding powers of the state. Mortifying the judicial function is a defeat for everyone. That is why we hope that the so-called corrupt sweep decree will be finally approved in the Senate, so that the culture of legality will finally triumph. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u216	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u217	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u218	CROATTI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give your attention to a question of an area of excellence in tourism which continues to be within an unacceptable limbo: I am talking about the pertinential maritime concessions for tourism-recreational purposes. The appliances of maritime property are structures falling within the state property that include all those works, difficult to remove or immovable, realized by the private concessionaires on the state property. They are about a thousand enterprises, mostly family run, of the excellences, and at least 250 of these face an inexorable situation; families that, in the current state, have matured a debt with the tax of several hundreds of thousands of euros: an unpredicted debt, fruit of an imposition happened and not agreed, daughter of the law of 27 December 2006, n. 296 (the financial one of the Prodi Government), that has made modificativo participations on the discipline in force for the marine state property concessions, leading to an increase of the canons. With the calculation system introduced, based on the values of the Italian mobile observatory (IMO), there have been increases ranging from +300 per cent to +1,500 per cent, i.e. from a few thousand euros up to 100,000-500,000 euros per year. These are the flagship companies that are now subject to the risk of an implementation by the Revenue Agency, unable to face the new fee of the debitory folders. Moreover, there was no timely and uniform application of the criteria introduced by Law No 296 of 2006. Some territorial authorities, on the basis of the provisions received by the State Property Agency, have requested an adjustment for the fees already paid since 2007 until the actual application of the proposed amendments. Only in the province of Rimini - the province from which I come - there are many companies that are stifled by this emerging situation. Let me give an example: the State Property Agency, through the Municipality of Riccione, has imposed a different and higher fee compared to the one already determined in concession not only for the current year but also for the past ones, starting from 2007, hanging even more a condition already expensive. It is an emerging situation, consisting of extensions on extensions. We need a reorder, otherwise the companies will be doomed to fail. We are talking about family-run activities that enhance our territory; we are talking about families that have spent energy and saving a life in these activities. That is why, Mr President, I call for concrete action to be taken so that we do not lose our country's entrepreneurial excellence. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u219	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u220	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u221	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the battle for the protection of animals and their right to life, against the barbarity of slaughter and the most complete disregard for nature, I would like to point out the importance of an initiative promoted by the vegan hyenas of Milan and other save animal groups, to be held from 12 December, at 10 a.m., until 15 December, at the same time, in front of the slaughterhouse in Lodi. There will also be the presence of the well-known animal activist Alessandra Di Lenge, whom I thank for the invitation, as well as for her daily commitment in defense of all those living beings who have no voice. It will be three days of vigil and fasting, to remind citizens of the importance of the protection of animals and the need, now improbable, to become aware of the need to adopt new and more respectful models of life for the environment and health. Farms for the exploitation of animals are known to be one of the biggest causes of climate warming. The negative impact on human health of animal meat is a very topical issue. On everything, however, there is love for animals and the duty to block barbaric practices of unprecedented violence, such as those of slaughter. For these reasons I will personally participate in the three days of waking and fasting in defense of the animals, which will be held in Lodi, before the slaughter. Throughout the Planet an unstoppable change is taking place. Go vegan! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u222	Senator Ciampollo, I believe that this is an improper use of the instrument of late-session intervention. We can use end-of-session speeches for things that have happened in the night, in the day, but to advertise a future initiative I think there are other instruments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u223	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-68.ana.u224	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 10 December, at 5 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.03 p.m.
