ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:03 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Castaldi, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 981, already approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us return to the subject which we discussed until late last night: inverted parts, what would have happened in this House? In a peaceful friendship and in a spirit of cooperation between colleagues, I say that the yellow vests now in Parliament would have attacked the government and the presidency. On the other hand, I want to be more cooperative and tell you how I would see the budget. I would see it written on a board, but since we have now arrived at slides and other means, I accept the slide on which there are written the entrances and exits for macrocifre. We would thus see that the state's revenue amounts to 800 billion and the outputs to 770, with a primary surplus of about 30 billion and 60-65 interest; and that's where the spread has to do with it, even if I wish it weren't. I know economists used to say that a sneeze in Hong Kong was pneumonia in New York, so news in bad economy can cause variations - billions, in our case - so that we are then forced to run after a million (or even less) cuts. The 60-65 billion interest thus leads to a deficit of 30-35, exactly equal to a figure between 2.4, 2 or 1.99 of GDP (about 1,750 billion). In the 760 billion exits there are fixed expenses (almost all): between 250 billion for pensions, 110 for health care, salaries, maintenance of buildings and various fixed expenses, there are 5-10 billion discretionary, if you do not carry out operations such as those that carry out all the financial (a pardon or a pseudocondon, which involve some extra income, and exits for the initiatives to be carried out, which consist of electoral promises, discretionary choices of the Government and politics). Investment should also be included in these amounts, which I fear are and will be few, both in terms of procedures and in terms of relying on better use of European funds. However, I am very interested in Europe's speech: what can we renegotiate with it? Apart from the events of the last few weeks and months, in which, in my opinion, we have lost, perhaps - as they say in simple jargon - among young people we have given some but we have also taken many. We contribute 14 billion to the European budget, which is current expenditure and money that goes from Italy to Europe. At the time it was established, these funds came from VAT, today they come in general from the budget. We take back about 12, but not always, because we are not able to use European funds, because we lack co-financing, especially in the South. These are the facts. Where does the money go that isn't taken back in the course of the year? A residue? And yet there are 2 billions that make up the equation to the east of Europe and the pharaonic costs of it. Then Europe puts the rules on product labelling, especially food labelling, and we must wage war. He still tells us that we don't have to write the name on the intercoms. These are the measures that we must challenge Europe. In here, however, the problem is public debt. I would like to have a special debate on public debt in order to try to reduce it, with the proposal of Savona, Panerai and others of the constitution of a company with public real estate, sale of shares and extinction of debt for 300-400 billion. This heritage would be re-evaluated and sold and, with it, the quotas would be repaid. There would be a lot of other things to say, bad time escapes. I believe that saying no to the great works does not have a beneficial effect for Italy in terms of growth, nor does it have consequences in terms of degrowth; rather, it is a damage to employment. The resignations promised are difficult to achieve; the recruitments are too many and with a ridiculous start (15 November 2019). On the other hand, I find positive elements in the local measures, and I conclude. I believe that the forecast of a contribution of 400 million to the municipalities for public works - which amounts to about 40,000 to 50,000 euros per municipality, depending on the population range - is the work of the Undersecretary Giorgetti and others, and I publicly acknowledge this. Other rules concern the administrative surpluses, the consolidated balance sheet for small municipalities, the economic-patrimonial accounts, of which I hope the abolition has been saved, and the threshold of contracts from 40,000 to 150,000 euros. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to conclude. PEROSIN (FI-BP). I would, like everyone else, have a lot to say, but there will be an opportunity to do so. I conclude by addressing the friends of the majority, in particular my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars: see that governing is a serious matter, we must feel responsibility and, above all, we must know that we govern for everyone, not only for those who are supposed to have voted. It rules for everyone, because this is the past, the present and the future. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u6	Senator Monti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u7	Mr President, I too, like several Members of Parliament last night, must stigmatize the conduct of the Government towards Parliament on budgetary law. This was, I say with serene seriousness, a veritable act of contempt for Parliament. Parliament's sense of responsibility will perhaps prevent the provisional exercise, but what will begin on 1 January will unfortunately be called a blackmail exercise. [[Comments of Senator De Vecchis]] What is due to this objective contempt of Parliament on the part of the Government? To a real lack of time because the government has only been in office for a few weeks? To a sudden crisis that has upset the international economic and financial scenario? No, there is no mitigating circumstance of this kind. This unworthy expelling of Parliament is, in my opinion, simply a consequence of contempt for reality, rejection of reality. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u8	I'm sorry to interrupt you, Senator, but there is a disproportionate background buzz to attendance in this House. DE VECCHIS (L-SP-PSd'Az). He wasn't elected by anyone, he can't argue. MIRABELLI (PD). You can't even talk anymore. If you want, let's go out. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator, I'll call you back. It does not force me to do so again and to invite you to leave the Chamber. [[Comments of Senator De Vecchis]] Senator, I thought, without having appointed you, you understood who the call was addressed to. Don't make me call you back nominally. Maybe I did something wrong, ma'am? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Absolutely not. We're listening carefully.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u9	This unworthy outburst of Parliament is a consequence of contempt for reality and rejection of reality, which is perhaps the only element that the two political forces of the majority really have in common. I add the contempt for numbers, often dubbed at numbers; this is also an aspect of the failure of reality, except that then the numbers are made even more numerals when it can be useful to use, for the first time in the history of relations between the European Union and a Member State, two decimal digits. A government, which proudly considers itself sovereign and populist by refusing for months to have a serious dialogue with a reality considered hostile and to be overwhelmed, the European Union has ended up capitulating before the Eurocrats. It postponed the presentation of the maneuver in the Senate by days and days and then by an hour two days ago (from 12 a.m. to 1 p.m.) because the letter of clearance from Brussels did not arrive. The sovereign government has achieved the result of cheating to Europe in a clumsy way a significant share of Italian national sovereignty by subtracting it from whom? The populist government has taken away sovereignty from Parliament which, as President Mattarella reminded us the day before yesterday, is the interpreter and expression of popular sovereignty. Therefore, there has been a clear loss of popular sovereignty passed from Parliament to the Government and Europe. The Government has found itself having to decide on a maneuver under particularly favourable conditions. Looking at at least the last ten years, no Italian government has been confronted with an economy received from the past that is not flourishing, but that, after a serious financial crisis and a severe recession, gives or gives - we should perhaps say - signs of recovery. Financial markets and monetary policy had never been so favourable. Let's all remember the quantitative easing. It must also be said that the political conditions of the majority in relation to the numerical weakness and - let me say - the ideas of the opposition could have fostered a very rigorous government action. Ladies and gentlemen, even from the point of view of contagion, we have been favored and fortunate this time. On other occasions Italy has suffered from the contagion of neighbouring countries. You will remember what the disease of Greece was likely to mean a few years ago. This time we were lucky enough to suffer as a gift of God the contagion, in the sense of enlargement, due to the action of the yellow vests in France and to the dual circumstance that Commissioner Moscovici is very political and very French. I believe that without these circumstances, as is also stated in some newspapers today, the coalition of North American hawks and villains would not have allowed the Commission to spare the opening of the infringement procedure towards Italy. We actually escaped beautifully. I would like to dwell for a moment on why at the last minute the Italian Government actually managed to resume the situation in hand. In my opinion, we need to understand how such a deterioration in the negotiating framework with Europe took place first and how it could be remedied in a few days. We all have experience of functioning institutions, companies and politics. Usually, when a behavior goes wrong, when a performance is bad part of the reason lies in the bad structure of the institutions or in the fact that the institutions are not made to function as would be prescribed. Good. I believe that we have had enormous problems at the last minute but with real damage to the country because for months and months economic policy and European policy have been conducted, in their most visible manifestations, by ministers who are not competent and not responsible. For economic policy it has perhaps also had excessive attention - but it has been quoted by all - the act of the balcony of Vice President Di Maio. After defeating the competent Minister of Economy, he let the world know. But I would not wish to underestimate the contribution made in this regard, namely to the creation of a bad negotiating environment with Europe, by Vice President Salvini who did not have a balcony on time and triumphantly, but endless microphones placed in stadiums, breweries, festivals and elsewhere, from which he formulated, with punctuality, the foreign policy and the European policy of Italy. In international newspapers, Italy's foreign and European policy was declared day by day by the Minister of the Interior. Well, if you pay attention to it, things got a little straightened out when it happened in the functioning of the Government what had not been done to the wrong before by the President of the Council of Ministers: he began to lead the Government, Minister Tria reappeared for economic policy and for foreign policy Minister Moavero Milanesi and things went better. I always hope for the stability of governments, which generally improve as they learn, as long as they do not refuse to compare with reality and therefore for the stability and effectiveness of the Government, I hope that the President-in-Office of the Council will be able to take advantage of this experience. I would add a couple of last considerations: I noted, at the time of the first debate on trust, that this Government and this majority are made up of the only two parties that have had an overwhelming electoral success that have built, to a large extent, on the basis of a false narrative, of a history in which they participated only to destroy, that is, were the two only parties that, unlike the PD, Forza Italia and the central parties that were then, have assumed no responsibility in getting Italy out of the crisis of 2011-2012. Well, they have built a narrative that now, if they want to govern, they have to disassemble piece by piece. But I assure my colleagues in the League and the 5 Stars that I will never say that with the unelegant retreat they have shown us these days they have been servants of the strong powers, of international capitalism, kneeling before the European Commission and other delights with which they have characterized their critical contribution to the Italian political life of the last six or seven years. Finally, regarding the maneuver of the people, yes, I must say that I really liked the idea that it was a maneuver of the people, but you know "of" in Italian can denote subject or object. It was born as a maneuver of the people, made by the people in the interests of the people, but it became very much in the end - and I am sorry - an act of maneuvering over the people in which ideas of victory, of increased future welfare, of great vindication of things that the people had had to undergo in the past. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I should like to conclude by saying that it would now be acceptable, although partly justified, for avoiding the infringement procedure, to concentrate on the next steps. We read them well in the newspapers today and, in part, we have built them: a sort of carpet market, indeed flying carpets, under which there is a lot of dust in the form of VAT for the next few years. Therefore, very much attention, because we are not yet in Italy freed from a Europe that exists and that exercises its surveillance because all the countries have asked it to exercise it. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u10	Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, for the first time in this House, we are debating a draft budget law which we do not yet know the details of definitively, partly because the actual one - it is said - will arrive this afternoon; because we have had many texts, but never the one on which to work definitively. The process of this manoeuvre is the emblem of the approximation demonstrated almost daily these first six months of government. Dances that are painful, figures, measures, amendments, surreal growth forecasts, attacks on Europe, retro-marc and self-confidence, for example, on the tax on the most polluting cars. For days, a clear attempt to take time because, we have noticed, we had to limit ourselves to discussing minor measures, basically tips and tips distributed without too much criterion. What is even more serious, you have exonerated the role of Parliament by reducing Members to mere paper-papers: because we have seen so much of it here, unfortunately for our trees! Let's at least hope it's recycled. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In the House, our colleagues have literally argued in the dark. They have approved a maneuver which they do not even know what it contains and whose contents have not so far been definitively clarified. This is particularly so with regard to your main measures, which are the 100 quota and also the citizenship income, which we do not yet know how it will be paid, what you will do and what is written in it, apart from some cards that may be printing. We were told that the real changes would come to the Senate. Well, we are still waiting for the changes. Apart from Mr Conte's report, which has told us that there will be further cuts, we are waiting to know where these cuts will be made. In the end, the budget law that will come out of this House will only raise a lot of smoke and a bit of welfare, without promoting growth, without reducing taxes and without setting up investments that the country would need. They also cut funds at the university because, with the turnout block from November next year, we did nothing but block the funds at the university. In addition, the figures from the Parliamentary Budget Office, which you did not want to be heard in the Commission, already told us that there is an extra EUR 6 billion and that the next VAT freeze will bring additional taxes on citizens' heads in 2020 and 2021. It would have been appropriate to continue along the path of the reforms undertaken in the previous parliamentary term and, in fact, you have done so. In fact, with the Rei, the income of inclusion, you have however recovered and have already included in this maneuver rules that can keep it alive until it is approved. This is because you have noticed that this famous citizenship income has no head or tail yet. It would have been better not to challenge Europe. But so it is, you have challenged her always saying: 'I don't care' and 'We're moving forward', and then we go back to saying that it is better that we are with Europe because, otherwise, it would fall into this infringement procedure, which is still not entirely averted, however. It was all propaganda, of course, saying: "We will not go back," since you have now come to surrender with the European Union. Your task should be to propose a budget law that avoids the country's risk of going into recession. In fact, however, we are already beginning to see this relegation. I come, however, to the point where I am most interested, which is that of health care. Here too, great proclamations, but no system programming has been made, only ads to commercials. The National Health Fund remained the same as the one planned by previous governments, it did not move a comma. So much for the list of the Premier Di Maio, who says: "Make it!." Done, nothing, because that billion more is what we had put in. [[Applause from the PD Group]] More health building commercials. Funds have been added only because an amendment of the PD to the House has added them, but we get to 2032 and who knows who will be there. Also on the waiting lists were put 50 million euros and added another 150, but all for the implementation of the so-called "technological network". I don't understand: you had to hire doctors to make visits, not have better computerization. Not to mention, then, the superticket, another very important proclamation: we will cut it, people need it. Well, not even a maneuver in that sense. Instead, it is necessary that the Regions manage themselves, that they emulate the most virtuous. Know that yesterday the budget of the Emilia Romagna Region was approved, which provides for the zeroing of the superticket, as provided by our Government. Too bad League and Movimento 5 Stars voted against: again, misunderstanding. [[Applause from the PD Group]] A fury of spending chatter and announcements on the income of citizenship, you have completely forgotten the health care, the operators of the sector, that instead they are already, those yes, on the foot of war, announcing another strike; one has already been made and they are preparing another. There are 120,000 executives who have never been met by the Minister. Inconceivable, then, what is happening in health care: reset the Higher Health Council with a letter. These are people who have worked for four years free of charge on a scientific level: deleted with a letter. Here we proceed to recommended to cancel Italian excellences. Not to mention the resignation of the President of the Higher Institute of Health and its Board of Directors: obviously there are inconsistencies with the condition of the Higher Institute. It is not allowed to know, then, what is being done with the roof for the recruitment of staff in health care: also on this, you proclaim, but in fact you know nothing. Who knows if it will be in the next maxi amendment, which arrives this afternoon, because the Minister, together with Garavaglia, had said "we will, we will do," but we have not yet seen anything definitive. Then there is a concern - which I believe the women present here must feel their own - that they have given the worker the right to extend work after childbirth for five months, by way of derogation from the law in force, which provides that they will stay home the two months before and the three months after. Although this is a voluntary operation, this rule obviously exposes women to the possibility of pressure and conditioning by employers, who risk endangering the health of the woman herself and the unborn child. Remember that not all women work in the office; there are so many women who work and do hard work. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr President, we cannot deny that we are deeply concerned. We begged you, in the interest of the country, to rewrite the maneuver, to accept our proposals. We have offered you cooperation, but, I must say, on your part there has been a fake listening: there has been no dialogue, no true availability. This is not the maneuver of the people, but of the recession, carried out by the government not of the change but of the failure of a country that does not deserve it. Because Italy does not deserve this manoeuvre. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u12	Senator Presutto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, when I look at what has happened in this last period, I realize that Italy seems to have been brought to a stock exchange. In practice, the country has as its main priority the verification of quotations. I wondered, therefore, whether this is actually the case and found the answer in the State's management report. We have 30% more revenue and expenditure, which is financial movements: basically, it would have sufficed a few more percentage points between revenue and expenditure, and we would have been before no longer a state, but a bank, which is in a pre-failure condition, if not already in liquidation. It seems to me that this is an aspect that deserves a lot of attention, as the dynamics that have led the country in this particular condition deserve even more attention. Of course, it is now up to us to govern the country, while previously it was up to others. We, however, assume the responsibility of governing the country and doing it well. It seems to me that attention has been lost to the main element for which we are here, which is represented by the citizens and certainly not by the financial markets. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would like to highlight a number of points that have been mentioned several times in recent days. We always tend to talk about the part of the budget - I use technicalism - and specifically about revenue and expenditure. I have never heard, however, or at least not with the frequency that it would deserve, of the fact that the State is no longer able to cope with current expenditure with tax revenue and this is a very serious problem. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , because it means that there is no natural financial sustainability, for a long time, of a complex body such as our country. Why did all this happen? This aspect has certainly also upset the Italian tax system, which is dated - that is why we talked about fiscal reconciliation with citizens - that over the years has been designed to attack taxpayers, especially the richest ones, and that has not adapted time to a world that has existed for decades now. Globalisation certainly did not happen yesterday morning: for years our country has been included in a global market, where other countries have also lived - I think for example of the subprime mortgage crisis - but they have had a better ability to get out of it than we do. Why, then, has all this happened? Why do we, for example, have positive differentials? I am going back to technicalism once again: we are talking about budgetary law and, therefore, technicalism is necessary or at least apparently positive, if we want to see small details of the budget, but then they are confronted with profoundly negative financial parameters, if we want to analyse other very important sections of the budget. As I have said several times, even on other occasions, I still ask: if those blessed credits in the balance sheet of the state budget, which are the roles that are not collected - this is EUR 900 billion - remain there and are not collected, then will the financial differentials in the state budget multiply in an exponential way? What effect will they have on public debt? Therefore, even if we had a minimum improvement in public debt, the financial situation would still tend to be negative and it has been such for years, as it still is and certainly not because of us. I therefore propose to give all Italians a copy of the first three pages of the State's management report of recent years, in order to consult and understand them, to which I would add a fourth page, containing the Bank's reports on the public debt. At this point we would have given the Italians the sure representation of a financial situation systematically deficit and negative, the one with which we are confronting today. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That is the parameter of the failure of the economic policies adopted in recent years, the one that you have carried forward, which today you think you are masters of our economic policy. I have not seen any proactive and positive economic policies and, like me, so many millions of Italians. Frankly, if I take the financial account of Italy - I come back to technicalism - I find more than 500 billion euros of revenue and then - by chance - to have more revenue to cover the expenses - is the problem before - the State has to turn on loans, then I understand that those loans will serve to repay other loans. That's why the spread scares: let's say it out loud. The spread scares because, in the last twenty years, Italy has been strongly weakened from the patrimonial point of view and in particular from the financial one, with a frightening growth of debt, minimally contained only in recent years, as a result of European rules that are good only for a country that does not have a public debt like the Italian one. So many people should apologize to the Italians. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But who made the country like this? Who raised the public debt? Now why is the social state at all levels, as well as the survival of citizens and businesses, being called into question in order to repay public debt, with thousand-simal improvements? We are therefore working with an act of courage and it is more than justified the confusion in which we find ourselves, because - on the one hand - we have inherited a condition of great national precariousness at all social levels, from health to pensions, from schools to the unemployed, to housewives and businesses, while - on the other hand - we are called to cope and move within European rules that have been provided for countries that are certainly less burdened by public debt than Italy. But who created this public debt? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] When I read that public debt has improved and I should be happy about it, I wonder: at what price? In the last management report, for which I was rapporteur, I found financial liabilities only increasing. We have a public debt that is also due when it improves from a financial system that ends up inciting the tax system to be hyperaggressive towards citizens and, since it fails to intercept the most important and richest taxpayers, it becomes fierce about the rest, the mass, which is sometimes unable to pay. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In all this, why do we have active residues, which are money that we have every right to recover, that are not collected? Roles are increasing more and more and add to a tax evasion of around EUR 210 billion. So those who are intercepted are also attacked by the tax authorities. I realize that the system is sick, but, as a simple unsuspecting one, I would say that everything that is wrong has been done before and is clearly testified not by my words, but by two elements more than negative: the public debt and the financial liabilities, aggravated by the inability of the State to collect taxes. Was it done well? No, it hasn't been done well so far. Then it is right to go and review the country system as a whole and it is right to go and recover the relationship with Europe, which has certainly very strict rules, but which must be respected when we do and continue to be part of it, even if Europe does not trust Italy or, better, does not trust how it has been governed in recent decades. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In the face of this we must make a forceful action with results that may not be completely certain - as is normal for economic policies - but we have a certainty and it is represented by the management report of the 2017 State and the report of the Bank of Italy, which have unequivocally highlighted the failure of your economic policies so far implemented. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Now it is up to us to try something else and, despite the doubts of the case, Italy asks us to change course and we are changing it. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u15	Mr President, I would like to remind my colleague Mr Presutto that we are in December 2018 and that the Government - I remind him, the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars and the League - no longer has the left majority, but the majority of the Movimento 5 Stars and the League. With you, Senator Presutto, they are all congratulating you, but the speech you have made could have done so - and certainly you or some of your colleagues have done so - one, two or three years ago and not in the face of the economic manoeuvre that you have achieved in this Parliament and which aggravates everything you have said, making the situation and the relationship with Europe worse. And this happens not only because we have been negotiating for two months on a fictitious maneuver, to which you then surrendered, colleagues of the League, not after 12 letters, but after a Christmas letter. You have declared surrender after a Christmas letter in a context which has not yet been sufficiently examined and which concerns the European Council. The negotiations were made at the European Council. I would like to address my colleague from Movimento 5 Stars who spoke earlier, saying that in the European Council the Count-Di Maio Government has accepted, indeed has suffered all the Diktats of Germany and the North Axis. It has suffered with regard to - for example - the fund saves States, which in the new formulation becomes only a safety net for banks in the countries of Northern Europe. Comrade Presutto, do you understand? You have accepted a reform of the fund saves States, which is a protection network only for banks in Northern Europe. This happened at the European Council a few days ago and not three, four or five years ago; it happened in your Government. At the European Council itself you accepted a reform that makes Italian public bonds less attractive. Do you understand? You traded this maneuver for 2 percent by selling off Italian public bonds. You have accepted a new euro area budget at the European Council itself, which will in fact only finance countries that are in line with European constraints and, therefore, not Italy. You have also renounced, again at the European Council itself, the request for a European deposit guarantee, which was already foreseen by the Banking Union: you have sold out not only the economic maneuver, but the very future of Italy, in order to make something pass that is an election-style maneuver for the April and May elections. This is the account that you have to bring to the Italians, moreover an account that the Italians are noticing. Ask yourself why, one day after another, we had around Parliament before the block of charterers, the day after the wild block of taxi drivers and the day after the block of tourist buses. It is not the rich who are making the blockades, but only the disadvantaged. When you feed the grudge of one another, then the flags that are burned - and I am always sorry when a flag is burned - are yours and are burned by poor proletarians, even though you have carried out a maneuver that is an expropriation proletarian. It is an expropriation of the proletarian towards Parliament, of this bourgeois institution which must be expropriated in its prerogatives to such an extent that we do not yet have the budgetary manoeuvre. But he is a proletarian expropriation towards the productive classes, the workers and those in this country who do economics and well-being and shows it also in the new measures you have brought. Just think - it has already been said in this House - of the tax burden that will result: EUR 52 billion. Of course, my colleague from the League, there were the VAT clauses before, but you did not remove them, but you made them worse. There was a noose on the goods and consumption of the Italians and that noose you did not lift it to the Italians, but you aggravated it. The same applies to companies: there is no measure to support companies, on the contrary, extra money is taken away; in addition to those you have taken away from the House, if you see the table of the Deputy Minister Di Maio, you will read only more taxes, more tax revenues and, therefore, more tax pressure for companies and for those who work. We will make a manifesto after this financial law that will list all the measures affecting productive classes, businesses and workers. In this manifesto you will see a hen that once made the golden eggs having three characters next to it, which today we could identify in Count, Di Maio and Salvini. That golden egg hen makes less and less; indeed, by now you are killing that hen, you are eating it. That manifesto - we will spread it through social media - will be the exact representation of the figures of this economic maneuver, of all those figures that affect the productive classes of the country, and above it will be written: "Taci e paga, donkey of the North." This financial law, the first done completely by the 5 Stars and the League, is a proletarian expropriation, but not in favor of the proletarians. Just look at what has been removed - for example - on safety at work or with the cancellation of the indexation of pensions above EUR 1,500, which are the pensions of the proletarians. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] This economic maneuver is against anyone who works and, on the other hand, the numbers prove it, colleagues of the 5 Stars: from what you are in the government, every day 74 stores lower the screen. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). What are you talking about? Mr Urso (FdI). With 52 billion VAT in the next two years, the shopkeepers who will close the stores will be not 74, but 740 per day. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] Meanwhile, every day, since you've been in the government, there are almost 700 more unemployed. Of course, every extra unemployed person, every shopkeeper who closes his business is a mass of electoral maneuver for the citizenship income that you may give - but only something - in the electoral campaign. This is not a proletarian manoeuvre, but an electoral one. It's not an expansive maneuver, but it's a recessive maneuver. It is not a maneuver for the people, but a maneuver against the people. This is a maneuver that you have suffered from the European Union with regard to the parameters, which you have written, with a sort of economic illiteracy, on the basis of a grudge which is what you have against those who have produced wealth in this country, those who have hired workers, those who can give an outlet and a future to our country. This, as it is designed, seems to be your first and last economic maneuver, because you postpone everything to the next two years, as if there were someone else to govern.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u16	I invite you to conclude, Senator Urso.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u17	Mr Urso (FdI). We must avoid this: we must prevent the troika from coming here to rule. We need a nation government here! Other than a citizens' government where the most salty fee is paid by all citizens. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u18	Senator Bergesio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u19	Mr President, representative of the Government, my fellow Senators, I would first of all like to reassure the appointed Senator for Life, Mario Monti, that we cannot take lessons from those who have brought our country economically to its knees. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] , with a government never voted by the Italians - as he is - and imposed precisely by those occult powers that every day hinder the action of this Government of change, which - I say it in a clear way - will never bow to those who do not care about the good of all Italians. First the Italians, always! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] I am speaking, Mr President, on a specific area which was also referred to yesterday, the agricultural and agri-food sector, which is worth EUR 140 billion for our country - as I remember in this House - 9% of gross domestic product. On all of them, particularly wrong things were said yesterday, because it has been said that the maneuver in question does not contain measures to the extent of the development of this sector. That's not true at all. I quote one out of all, which has been called into question and represents the generational shift, a new job opportunity: the free allocation of a share of agricultural land to households with three or more children since 2019, 2020 and 2021. Those families may also request a mortgage, up to 200,000 euros at zero rate, to build the house near the land where they are located. Just this government, which seems to do nothing for the sector, also and especially for the mountain areas has financed the National Fund for the mountain with 10 million euros per year for the years 2019, 2020 and 2021. Then there is the promotion of our products, which we always talk about. We approved an agenda in this House, with a specific point asking the Government to promote more Made in Italy in the world; it was funded with 90 million for 2019 and 20 million for 2020. Mr President, please give me a few more minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is A few more minutes is impossible; at most I can give you 30-40 seconds. Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). I would need to point out the importance of a measure which has been signed by all the Groups in this House and which, if approved in the budget law, will define a fiscal lack relating to the occasional collection of wild products (fungus, small fruits, truffles and medicinal herbs). The estimate is that the population affected by the proposal can even reach two and a half million Italians; of these people, about one million will use the proposed rule, i.e. the people who earn more than 10% of their family income from the collection. I would point out that there is a law, Law No 122 of 7 July 2016, which has been devastating for the truffle sector, with an 85% loss of national product supply and 60% loss of Italian product at European level. We want to put an end to this dangerous disaster, especially because there is a normative vacuum; we want to defend our made in Italy. The sector must be placed in a position to be able to operate with maximum transparency; the blackout must emerge, especially for a sector worth EUR 700 million to billion per year. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Bergesio. Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). This is the task of this Parliament. We have worked together, we have done this well and we hope that this rule will be taken forward and approved. First the Italians, always! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u20	Senator Bergesio, you and others were given additional time to finish the surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u21	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at least for now, the European infringement procedure seems to be foiled, but at what price? This Parliament has been totally exonerated: this is the first time that the details of the maneuver have not yet been known here in Parliament on 21 December, and then billions of Italians, the State and our contributions have literally been burned down in the eighty-four days of negotiations with Europe. With the various statements of the Ministers of this Government, over the past few weeks the spread has risen, i.e. the interests that the country must pay on its public debt. I am referring to 1.5 billion money from Italian citizens who could have been spent on building schools, hospitals and motorways. We have made ourselves feel sorry at international level, Mr President, except then to go to pity a downward compromise with the hat in hand. The result is that the maneuver, for the first time in the history of the country, was written directly from Brussels. What a sovereign government! To this end, when it comes to defending Italy, the Commission has its own house to decide its own accounts, among other things by totally reducing the role of Parliament and also betraying those populistic promises that have led us to the current dramatic situation. This maneuver disregards and totally betrays the promises made by the yellow-green government. First of all, the Fornero Pension Act does not disassemble, on the contrary, it provides for a budget of 2.5 billion on pensions from those of 1,500 euros, which I do not think are defined as golden pensions; then it reduces the resources for citizenship income, which is a nice title - it is true - but whose contents are all to be verified. Moreover the maneuver increases the taxes on the enterprises instead of reducing them and returns to freeze the release of the turnover; that unblocking of the turnover that we had deliberated, but now for the assumptions in the public administration we will have to wait another year. Above all, this maneuver does not invest either in growth or in development; in part it distributes in a different way the resources that we had allocated with our PD-led governments, but it does not provide for measures in favour of work or business; it cancels a whole series of tax breaks that we had introduced. The question is: if wealth is not produced, who pays? In fact, the public debt increases substantially, going to weigh heavily on the younger generations. The maneuver also places dangerous mortgages on the future of this country, not only foreseeing a strong increase in VAT starting from 2022; for example, the international projection of the country system in the world will see a net cut of resources of 60% from next year, both in terms of internationalization and promotion of Italian language and culture abroad, thus determining a strong damage, not only for our communities in the world, but for the entire country system. Even on defense issues, the situation is no better. As it is written, the draft budget law does not give any clarity as to where the cuts envisaged in this section are going to be affected. In addition to some discordant statements by individual ministers, the only information we have is information from a press release issued by the Commission on 15 October on the contents of the draft budget law. In the only passage in which we talk about defence it is said that a reduction in military expenditure is expected equal to the funds necessary for the reform of employment centers. Needless to say, there cannot be a worse approach to the defence sector, a sector that needs long-term planning and reasonable certainty of resources and investment more than any other within the public administration. A similar attitude, therefore, can only denote a lack of consideration and awareness of the needs of a sector that plays, instead, a very delicate and decisive role for the country not only for internal security, but also for the international dimension and economic development of Italy. And if - on the one hand - it should be noted that there are some positive measures (such as the recruitment plan for the Carabinieri's weapon and the EUR 100 million increase in the financial envelope for the reorganization of careers) - on the other hand - the generic cuts of EUR 60 million foreseen in the former Article 59 and the further cut of EUR 531 million of the structural fund for the period 2019-2031 create uncertainty and denote the lack of a clear strategic direction and the total absence of political vision in the field of defence. Moreover, these cuts create a strong uncertainty on our security system, on the entire technological and industrial sector and on the international credibility of our country, with serious operational, industrial and international effects. Finally, Mr President, there are some cherries on the cake. First of all, the forecast of the use of the Army for the maintenance of the roads of Rome arises: an indecency, moreover denied in recent days by the same Minister of Defense Thirty. With the maxi amendment the forecast of the intervention of the Army is reintroduced to fix the holes of Rome, which is humiliating and offensive not only for the men of our Armed Forces, but also for the same city of Rome. The women and men of our Army have tasks quite different from being used as pit stops, to carry out repairs that should be part of the ordinary administration of the Junta. Moreover, it is a Junta that only a few months ago said no to the Olympic Games and, therefore, to the possibility that the city could take advantage of international resources also for the improvement of infrastructure and its own roads. In short, Mr President, if this is the maneuver of change, poor Italy! Poor us! [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u23	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the League is proud of this maneuver of development and equity, which leaves no one behind. As promised, we will pass the Fornero law and introduce 100. We have invested so much in health care and almost 600 million additional resources in social matters. The maneuver also contains many measures for schools, universities and research, as well as the fund of 525 million, for three years, to restore the swindled savers. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] There are also measures for businesses, of which the League has a deep culture; we have doubled the deductibility of the IMU of the sheds and extended the flat-rate scheme. We are talking about 1.5 million VAT matches, which, with revenues below 65,000 euros, will pay a tax of 15 percent. The dry coupon was introduced to 21% for the rent of shops and the Ires was raised from 24 to 15 percent for the re-paid profits or for the hire of staff. INAIL contributions have also been cut by 30%. Moreover, for disposable plastics and bioplastics - he will talk about it after his colleague Briziarelli - thanks to a standard introduced by the League, a section of dozens of Italian companies is saved, with 3,000 employees and a turnover of over a billion, which risked to close. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] With regard to the so-called Bolkestein Directive, provision is made for the extension of bathing concessions for 15 years. The state of emergency for the earthquake in Central Italy is also extended, with the presence for another two years of the 700 technicians working at the Municipalities of the crater and the offices of reconstruction that deal with the practices of private reconstruction. Not only that: for them there was also a derogation from the so-called Dignity Decree, which prevents many experienced people from being left at home. They would have been madness and a measure contrary to common sense. In addition, financial spaces have been introduced for the municipalities, which will thus be able to use the administrative surpluses to make investments necessary for reconstruction. On a heavy pay envelope, the repayment of the instalments is extended and the increase is expected from 60 to 120. Not only the extension of the exclusion from taxable income for the purposes of IRPEF, but also the exclusion from taxable income for the purposes of the ISEE calculation, is envisaged on buildings that cannot be used or destroyed. For the crater's commercial operations, the exemption from the sign tax and that on the occupation of public land is extended. In short, after the many important measures in decree-law n. 55 and in that on Genoa, now there are also many new measures in the budget law, confirming that this Government and the League have at heart the earthquake communities, to which will never lack the action of support. [[Applause from the LN-SP-PSd'Az and M5S groups.]] We also extended the useful life of the ski lifts of the municipalities of Abruzzo and Marche, saving for them the ski season. Is that common sense or not? And about the earthquake and the environment, 2.6 billion have been planned in three years for the territories in emergency state and the extension for three years of the ecobonus and the sysmabonus, which never happened before. On the end of waste and the circular economy, the amendment mentioned by my colleague Ferrazzi of the Democratic Party has been blown up: nothing better now than a harmful rule that would have blown up the cycle of waste that returns products and that had alarmed not only companies, but also environmental associations. For local authorities, there are many millions for investments in municipalities and 250 million for the maintenance of roads and schools in the Provinces humiliated by the Renzi Government in 2014. I start with the conclusions, remembering that in this manoeuvre there are, yes, the balances agreed with Brussels, but above all the measures expected by the Italians who are supporting this Government by a large majority. There is so much that it is added to what has been done in the last seven months: how not to mention the actions made by the Interior Minister Salvini to guarantee more security to the Italians and a serious management of immigration, which not only blocked the landings, but also achieved huge savings in the reception, which now allow us to hire 6,150 agents between State Police, Carabinieri, Guardia di Finanza e Polizia penitentiaria and in the next two years 1,500 Fire Departments, even volunteers, for which protections and measures have been inserted? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Arrigoni. Arrigoni (LN-SP-PSd'Az). It has not been five minutes, Mr President: give me 30 seconds more. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's been a while, but I'll give you extra time. Arrigoni (LN-SP-PSd'Az). Minorities blame us for having committed a hostile act against the country and some opposition colleague accused us of not having any sense of the institutions. You're ridiculous. [[Applause from the LN-SP-PSd'Az and M5S groups.]] Well, from those who supported a government, such as Renzi, that in 2014 to emerge from the EU a zero comma of flexibility sold the country, risking turning it into a refugee camp, signing the Triton operational plan, kept hidden for three years in Parliament, which - then yes - has been exauthored, we do not accept lessons. We just don't accept them. [[Applause from the LN-SP-PSd'Az and M5S groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u25	Senator Siclari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I find it very embarrassing to admit that at the very first parliamentary term I feel so much disappointment and bitterness about the method used to arrive at the approval of the most important parliamentary and institutional act that the Government carries out in this House. I am referring, of course, to the budget law which, said so, seems to be little, but in reality it marks the future of every citizen, sick and retired, of every single company and family, of all Italian citizens, in short, of our country. You have shouted "honesty, honesty, honesty!" but, once to the Government, you turned your back on the majority of Italians and the democracy of our country. You have defenerated from this very House that democracy which has allowed you to be elected by bringing your promises into the electoral campaign, which are of course unrealizable, because even in the large amendment that you will vote in this House there is no trace of the slogans that you keep announcing every day. You prevented the comparison in the Commission. You did not want to discuss any agendas and any amendments tabled by the other groups. However, a very important little detail escapes you; a detail that brings out your deep internal political contradiction and which, above all, delegitimizes you to speak on behalf of the Italian people. You do not represent the majority of Italian citizens, nor a government elected by the people: you represent 49% of those who voted on March 4, i.e. 25% of those entitled to vote, i.e. one in four people. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This requires a political confrontation on the budget law, both in method and in substance, with all of us who represent those who did not vote for it and who are the majority of Italians. It is vomitable and - let me say - even incorrect to observe how you questioned the principles of the Constitution that require a comparison in the classrooms in charge. Yours is not a change, it is not a change of course with the past, but it is simply the result of your deep internal political contradiction which, until the last moment, has not allowed you to reach any useful agreement between you before bringing the budget law to the Chamber. You are living with great suffering your union against nature, your cold fusion. You have announced the flat tax: clear, fine, but tell the truth and tell everyone that what you call flat tax concerns billed up to 65,000 euros. You have announced the 100th quota: good, good, but tell the truth to the workers, explaining to them that they will be able to retire, but they will have the life cut of a part of the same pension. You said, overlooking the balcony of Palazzo Chigi, that you abolished poverty: great, but I still don't understand which country you live in. You are in fact feeding poverty, hitting citizens' pensions and promising the income of citizenship that will give the unemployed little more than Renzi's 80 euros, which you have so much criticized, while giving much more to foreigners and those who work in black. You have said that you want to abolish unemployment: well, but tell the Italians that the budget law provides nothing to create employment and that the decree of dignity that you have approved has led, according to Istat, 36,000 new unemployed, and we are only at the beginning. You are sending home 5,500 workers ex Lsu-Lpu in Calabria, which is the Region today with the highest unemployment rate. You have announced the cut of the golden pensions: well, excellent the announcement, fantastic I would say, but tell the Italians that the golden pensions are few and that, instead, you have penalized all the pensions above the 1,500 gross with the block of the indexings. You hit the retired workers, not the caste, because now you've become the caste. You have celebrated the "scratchery": excellent party, but tell the citizens that you have not waited for the opinion of the Supreme Council of the judiciary arrived in these hours: a negative opinion, expressed by overwhelming majority, with 17 votes in favour, including the vote of one of your members of the majority, three against and abstentions; opinion with which the CSM reiterated the risks of unconstitutionality of your decree. Not to mention the manifesto of the 110 professors of criminal law, the flower of the Italian academy - which has never happened since our Republic existed - who have addressed President Mattarella as guarantor. You first alerted the health world, questioning science with your personal judgements about vaccines; now the world of law and personal freedoms on which the democratic liberalism of the whole West is based. Finally, we are debating the role of Parliament with the choice not to discuss the proposals put forward by those who represent - I repeat - the majority of Italians, who are the ones who did not vote for them. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You announced that it would be the maneuver of the people and, instead, the only thing you are trying to maneuver is the people through your unrealizable announcements. I have full confidence, not in you, but in the people themselves because they will be the same people who have voted for you who will soon go down to the streets to send you home. You are hurting citizens: in addition to gas and light that have increased by 8%, they will find the increase in VAT under the Christmas tree, which will reach 26.5% in 2020. It's improbable; it never happened, not even in Greece. Not to mention the TARI in bills that obliges citizens to pay the waste tax together with electricity. If this does not happen, the penalty is the detachment of the electric current. What country do we want to live in? I would like to explain to the citizens that we would have liked to talk about flat tax, that in our amendments we talked about this, about the increase in pensions, the instruments to create jobs in the South, the incentives for young mothers, the great works, the TAV in Piedmont, the state 106 of the three regions, the ports and the airports. You have rejected the Bridge on the strait, but you have not worried to put in safety the port that allows the crossing of the Strait of Messina, that it is crossed by 2 million means and that it is not realized for this traffic. You have not accepted the amendment of the port and neither that of the airport of Reggio Calabria. You of the Movimento 5 Stars, represented 74.56 percent of the elected in the South; you could have done so much for the South, but there is no trace of the South in your maxi amendment. There is only charity: the income of citizenship. It's a shame for our country. The citizens of the South do not feel that they live with dignity in this country. You could have done a lot more. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Fazzolari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u27	Mr President, in these few hours of debate we have heard fierce criticism of the government's manoeuvre coming from the left and the former majority that we have had in the last five years. Of course, so it's easy to lend your side to those who say: "Since I pulpit..." There's little to do, the recipes we've had in the last five years - it's useless that we hide it - didn't work. I want to avoid repeating things already said by myself several times, but the numbers of the last five years of the left government are the numbers of a catastrophe: last for growth in Europe (the European average in 2017 was 2.3% and Italy settled at 1.5%); we witnessed a disaster for employment... MIRABELLI (PD). Disaster for occupation what? FAZZOLARI (FdI). The government debt exploded; the debt-to-GDP ratio grew by 8.5%; the debt rose by 270 billion and in five years investments decreased by 8 billion etc. COLLINA (PD). The cats and the mouse see them on the mouse. FAZZOLARI (FdI). These are the data from the last five years. We needed a change. MIRABELLI (PD). About the occupation? We have not understood the employment figures. FAZZOLARI (FdI). The Government of Change came because it needed a change. Too bad that change was not there because the surreal debate we have today is that the left is contesting a maneuver that is in continuity with its maneuvers. You're playing house with each other. This maneuver, in fact, repeats exactly the horrors and errors of the maneuvers of the last five years, not only in numbers. The Government of Change had gone on to declare war on the European Union by saying that it would end with austerity and that they would expect a deficit of 2.4%. They opened the champagne for this. The recipe was wrong because - a shred of macro-economic knowledge could serve when one has to make an economic maneuver - expansive policies on the demand side only on current expenditure have never worked in the history of Western economies; therefore, this would have been the first that, in theory, made an expansive policy based only on current expenditure and not on investment. But by putting this aside, at least we could say that we are facing a policy of change. Unfortunately, that is not the case, because the parties are leaving behind, the first of the European Union's "buh!" we have given up: we have lifted up the white flag and dropped our pants. And now we have a maneuver that provides even worse balances than those foreseen in previous years, so a deficit of 2% and also entirely in current expenditure. Now, we always cheer for Italy but a bad figure so I wonder why we had to do it. If you had the intention of being so little fighters it would have been better not to declare war. We do not declare wars and then make fools of ourselves and surrender to the first difficulty. I make an inscription: about the maneuver we heard the Italians say "before." So why did Juncker and Moscovici know the maneuver we are about to approve and know it and do we not know it that we are the Italian Parliament? First the Italians what? [[Applause from the FdI Group]] We should know the maneuver first and then move it to Brussels, not the other way around. The truth is that the arguments of this maneuver were so weak that it was also difficult to fight to defend it. We needed a sovereign maneuver. What is a sovereignist maneuver we have always said so because, to understand us, we were sovereignists even before this term became fashionable and who discovers at a late age to become sovereignist, maybe gets confused and does not understand exactly what he is talking about. A sovereignist maneuver is, for example, the one made by Trump in the United States: public investment and tax reduction, also paid in deficit but deficit entirely intended for public investment and tax reduction. The results are visible and the American economy is flying. Is that what we did? No, and in fact there is no reduction in taxes. Even compared to the money present in the last maneuver that we have seen (because this will be even worse) there are 6 billion more taxes on businesses, and not the big ones because at least half of them will weigh on SMEs. No flat tax of course, and, again from the numbers we had so far, compared to the 18 billion more deficits to finance current expenditure, we only have 3 billion more to finance investments. This makes us understand the orientation of this maneuver. Or, a sovereignist maneuver is the maneuver that the Visegràd countries are implementing in which they concentrate much of their resources on supporting families for a serious birth plan. There is nothing in this maneuver either. A sovereignist maneuver would have looked at the territorial unity of its nation (while the North-South divide remains unacceptable) and concentrated its resources in the South, as for example Germany did at the time of reunification, concentrating much of its resources on reabsorbing the Eastern territories. Everything that we have not done because this is not a sovereign maneuver. Moreover, this was, unfortunately, the natural conclusion of a farce was more than predictable. Beppe Grillo had announced it years ago, proudly saying that thanks to the Movimento 5 Stars in Italy had not grown the right. Well, luckily, this deception is coming to an end. With this maneuver we have established who are the sovereignists and who can challenge the technocrats of Brussels and it is certainly not this grill-leghistic government but only the sovereignists of the Brothers of Italy. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u28	Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u29	President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here last night with an absolutely surreal debate: the Senate is committed to discussing a text that is not there. Today, 21 December, we do not yet have a text. Some of us could read some rumors in the papers. Someone has been able to deepen the maxi amendment of the Government received to the Justice Commission, but who knows if it will then be confirmed in the text of the maxi amendment of the Government. We have, therefore, only anticipations from the newspapers, those newspapers (and don't be surprised if I this morning, like every morning, I also read the blog of Francesco Storace), that you want to silence, silence, close and no longer finance (but on this I will return). If the Senate were a theatre, if the Senate were a place of entertainment, today we would be spectators of a great work of Italian theatre: These ghosts, brought to the House by Eduardo De Filippo. Yes, "These ghosts!" is a spectacle made famous by the great Eduardo, a text in which, behind the appearance of ghosts, hides the classic story of a conjugal betrayal. We also have ghosts in the Senate today. The ghosts hidden behind the sneer of the Undersecretary present in the Chamber from the other night, who is playing with his smartphone to hide the fact that he is bored and that he considers this Parliament, which considers our parliamentary democracy useless, to ridicule the Constitution and everything in it; so distracted for a debate so useless that it does not realize that I am talking about him and his smartphone. But he keeps doing it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The first invisible ghosts, but still very present, always in the play we are witnessing, are actually the European actors of this text, who knows if it will arrive in the afternoon. I am Juncker, Moscovici and Dombrovskis, the true extensors of the finance that we will vote on this night, with a vote of confidence and therefore bent, you, even if you do not share it, to give this strange government a breath of oxygen again. A text written outside Parliament and denied the knowledge of each of us. The budget committee was unable to vote on an amendment. He examined a text that was completely out of date with the government's maxi amendment, which I wonder if it will come. We are in the Chamber with the bleak spectacle of a budget law that arrives without a rapporteur, for the first time in the history of the Republic. And for the first time in the absence of the President of the Budget Committee. Look at the empty desk of the Commission. [[Live comments from Senator Marco Pellegrini.]] Mr Laus (PD). What do you want? Shut up! CIRINNA' (PD). Continue the play "These ghosts!" When the Commission is present in this Chamber, it sits on the bench of the Commissions, if it is not ashamed of its role: if it is not ashamed of being the Commission, it sits on the bench of the Commissions! This is the proven proof that, even on the Commissions, you have put a tombstone on the site of democracy and confrontation! Let me teach you a lesson in the Constitution. Stay there and put your face on it. Put your face on it! [[Applause from the PD Group. Live comments from the M5S Group. Comments from Senators Pharaoh and Laus.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u30	Senator Pharaoh and Senator Laus, don't force me to call you back individually. There is no rapporteur. My colleague, Mrs Cirinna, has, therefore, pointed out a political fact and must be understood as such. Let us continue in the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u31	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, I see that, by pointing out a political fact, someone sits on the Commission's desk. Montevecchi (M5S). Shame on you! We don't take Constitutional lessons from anyone. [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]] Mr Laus (PD). Shut up! CIRINNA' (PD). Sometimes these ghosts have a voice. Evidently, they are very well guided ghosts! Let us move forward on the content, ladies and gentlemen, those who are not there and should be there. Unfortunately, President Pesco went to all the newspapers yesterday and there was also a statement from him; he asked the President how he could move forward. This is the real point: how will he move forward, inside the play of these ghosts! (Translated with Google Translate) " (Translated with Google Translate) " (Translated with Google Translate) " (Translated with Google Translate) " (Translated with Google Translate) " (Translated with Google Translate) " (Translated with Google Translate) " (Translated with Google Translate) " (Translated with Google Translate) " (Translated with Google Translate) " (Translated with Google Translate) " (Translated with Google Translate) " You are chained, because you have the second mandate ban, because you know that you are in vertical decline, because the strongest mate keeps you nailed to his interests and, slowly, eats you. Let's talk about politics, about facts, about what will happen to the Italians' pockets from tomorrow night. [[Comments of Senator Lucidi]] Mr Laus (PD). Shut up! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We are in general discussion, there are those who speak, of whom we will appreciate the strength of the arguments. [[Comments from Senators Laus and Lucidi.]] I begin to call you individually and then invite you to leave the Chamber if you continue. LUCIDES (M5S). Four percent! Mr Laus (PD). Shame! Get out! CIRINNA' (PD). Between the first and the second act of "These ghosts!"In the interval, you listen to the song with the chorus "The truth hurts you, I know it. It hurts you, it hurts you, it hurts you, but I keep telling you the truth! [[Applause from the PD Group).]] The truth is that these ghosts are missing two more; ghosts in here from day one, ghosts since Count came to tell those four little words that he was allowed to say about the agreement with Europe. We have the two vice premier totally ghosts, especially in their role. One believes to be the Minister of the Interior and disguises himself: one day he disguises himself as a policeman, one day as a fireman, one day as a helicopter driver [[Applause from the PD Group]] ). But you have to be ashamed, because by putting yourself in those divided insults the workers of those weapons. [[Protests from M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments of Senator Lucidi]] Mr Laus (PD). Shut up! CIRINNA' (PD). The truth hurts you and I keep telling you. Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, these insults. CIRINNA' (PD). We have another ghost, that of the Minister of Labour, who will be the Minister of unemployment and precariousness from today. [[Applause from the PD Group. Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] What a hard time you're making me do! It will be the Minister who has cut off the possibility to the precarious of the public administration to be hired until November of next year. This also applies to the university's precarious ones and to all those precarious ones who have long been waiting for their stabilization. You have to understand, then, if, perhaps, in being ghosts, you have chosen the copiing syndrome. In fact, just tonight, the ghost minister of unemployment also chose disguise (perhaps he learned from Salvini) and disguised himself as Berlusconi: he took a blackboard and wrote to us: This is done, this is done, this is done. "But of what?" is said in Rome. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u32	I invite you to conclude, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u33	CIRINNA' (PD). I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you. I'm gonna get a few minutes 'cause they interrupted me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We're taking this into account, just like everyone else. I invite you in any case to conclude. CIRINNA' (PD). I shall end by saying to you, ladies and gentlemen, that this false budget law, which no one has been able to see, actually concerns most Italians. It worries those who have to try to take care of their own future and the future of their children. No one is good at numbers, and you trust this somehow try to conceal your mistakes. Next year's budget law - if ever there will be you - will start from "-23 percent," which is that safeguard clause on VAT that you have tried to stop today: open the door to austerity, to an increasingly precarious Italy, more and more alone, more and more isolated and continue to do so by embarrassing yourselves, because of this Government today - because you continue with ghosts - there is no one. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u34	You are registered to speak Senator Nastri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u35	Mr President, the draft budget law for 2019 is, in all probability, the first measure, since our country joined the European Union, to be written - indeed rewritten - by the officials of the European Commission. This is a situation that certainly has no precedent. We left last month from a government that said "I don't care." I'm pulling straight. We leave the letters to Santa Claus, then arrive at the final drafting of the written and announced maneuver - with contents, balances and figures - in Brussels. In short, the Government of the sovereignists has remained without sovereignty. So let us try to describe the text, on the contrary, if you will allow me, Mr President, I would like to try to adjective it: shalbo, inconclusive, hazy, strabico, useless and, above all, even harmful to our country, and I could also use other adjectives. The maneuver has been so variable in these days and weeks that in most cases it has seemed evanescent and above all imperceptible. From the budgetary maneuver we also expect a line, a road, a direction, but above all a perspective, to reverse what has been a decline to date. What is the direction indicated? No one knows, except you, and your voters probably don't know either. There has certainly never been such a situation, there has never been an economic maneuver that in practice displeases everyone, from businesses to families, the world of school, that of entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises, interventions for the Mezzogiorno. There is no sector or sector of civil society or of the productive world that expresses appreciation for this economic maneuver, which I remember is all financed by debt-covering interventions. I would add that, even as far as the environment is concerned, very little has been done. All this, not to mention the last corrections imposed, as I said before, by Brussels, after the pull-and-drop and the tensions that lasted days and weeks, announced at the last second, just before the start of the infringement procedure, by Prime Minister Conte here in this House, or the revision of the safeguard clause. But how? You have thus criticized - and I would add that you have rightly done so - the introduction of the safeguard clause, which is certainly a measure that should not be pursued throughout the last parliamentary term. I therefore believe that the budget law in our examination is the real and real mirror of the political inexperience of this Government, set - let us not forget - on two cornerstones: on the one hand, the income of citizenship and on the other hand the 100 quota, which will not cause any positive impact on the country's economy and indeed will aggravate social tensions. We thought the exact opposite and would also have supported the maneuver, especially if it had helped businesses, if it had created more work and reduced taxes; if it had not been a watered down maneuver like the one we are discussing. We would have supported a maneuver able to give small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of our economy, to hire, perhaps thanks to tax cuts. All this has not happened at all, and for this reason I believe that this arm wrestling with Europe has been solved by a depressing game of goose. Judging by the government's satisfied and not too embarrassed reactions, it is as if nothing had happened in these eighty-four days, as if during the time spent between the "night of the balcony" and today, between the feast of the overflow in deficit, with so many punches and fingers in sign of victory and the present inglorious reverse of the maneuver, the Italian economy had waited at the window, quiet, without suffering a backlash for the months unnecessarily lost. What's left in the end is only the heavy burden of a goose game gone wrong, from which have remained out so many fragile promises of growth as roboating threats of paperback; outside like a balcony, if we want to use a metaphor. Other than that we have defeated poverty, the real risk is that with your maneuver unfortunately there will be even poorer tomorrow, but especially the day after tomorrow, when the effects of the maneuver will be felt in all their negativity. Evidently, however, the future of our country is not of interest to the Government, which perhaps only imports polls; it will be others, unfortunately, we hope in the coming months and not in the coming years, to have to put the pieces to this disaster which unfortunately, if it goes on like this, is already definitely announced. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u37	Mr President, I would like to start with those who have said that we have abolished poverty; yes, it is a pity, however, that there are still the poor. That said, I'm at the sixth edition of the same music: Parliament flattened, maneuver-debted, maxi amendment and confidence. It seems to me that it is the same music and the orchestra has simply changed; I was hoping instead that music would change too. I am not opposed to deficit: absolutely. As a firm supporter of Italy's exit from the European Union for years now, I need to make all the necessary deficit. The point is, when you do debts, you also have to decide what you want to do with the money. Well, debt to shop is never a good idea and not because I say so. The famous multipliers invoked to justify the fact that it would be called an expansive maneuver are in this case dramatically less than one. This is because we are in a situation of overcapacity. If we put 6,100 million euros in people's pockets to do current shopping, this is not enough to force companies to increase production, make new sheds and invest in machinery, because they have full warehouses and we are in overcapacity. So the multiplier, which theoretically would be equal to one, goes down because of this money a part definitely will become accumulation by the seller of services or products; it could therefore be equal to 0,9 or 0,95. This means that the return to the State will be lower. I would therefore like to concentrate on one of the two measures on which "there is chubby"; needless to go and talk about the details, let's talk about the substantial things. For five years I have witnessed the genesis of what is called citizenship income which, more consistently, should be called conditional guaranteed minimum income. Initially the figure put on the plate was 16,961 million euros; of these, one part would go for employment centers and the others for direct financing, for a audience, estimated, at the time, of 9.5 million people. The figure has now been reduced to 7,100 million, of which 1,000 for employment centres, thus becoming 6,100, but incorporating 2,150 million of the income of inclusion (Rei); thus becoming 3,950. The paradox is that it will take away from some poor to give to some other poor because the two audiences of beneficiaries are not two perfectly overlapping sets; they are two sets with an intersection not empty, but with two edges. So let's talk about this money divided on an audience that would seem to be 6 million or 5.5 million; make it 5.5 million. Statistically - for a moment you will forgive me the Trilussa chicken - the division makes about 90 euros per person per month. This means someone will take more and someone will take less, because the amount is always that. Some will take 775 and some will see a check of 50 instead. Attention I would like to ask about the possible criticalities of such a measure: against these, which can go from 1 to 779, a monthly commitment of thirty-two hours for socially useful works is required. Let's say that if a person who takes 50 asks to work for 32 hours, it would mean that his average hourly salary would be about EUR 1.51 per hour. It seems to me to be a very low wage benchmark. But let's move on: these people, 5.5 million, represent about 10 percent of the Italian population (something more, 10.5 percent): this means that every municipality and every city will have to manage 10 percent of its resident population for socially useful jobs. A city like Rome, which has 2.8 million inhabitants, will have to manage 280,000 socially useful workers. How's he gonna do that? No way. What's he gonna do to him? He'll get them to do those low-professional jobs that are being contracted to cooperatives. At this point why would a municipality award a public green contract to a cooperative, paying it, when there is someone who would do the same thing paid by the state? Result: an impact on employment which is presumed and which should be taken into account. Another question, again with regard to all the money that would be given, relates to the method of delivery: in the text - which I do not know what it will become - three proposals for work were originally written. Being good and assuming that they are mutually expendable, there are 5.5 million jobs, that is to say you are promising to create 5.5 million, but since there were two constraints (no more than 50 kilometers from the place of residence to the place of work and no more than eighty minutes of travel time by public transport), it is clear that there can not be 5.5 million: a person who was in Santa Maria di Leuca could not accept a job 51 kilometers away. Entering into detail (from mathematician I look at detail, I do not care when a function is holomorphic, but I am interested in the point of discontinuity), what do we mean by public transport? A collective and non-owned means of transport: therefore an airplane or a high-speed train. From Milan I could then be forced to go to Bologna: the train takes less than an hour. Of course, walking times are excluded to reach the public transport pick-up station. So, these eighty minutes don't know how many they are and it's still not an objective criterion. In any case, we can't think of offering a person a job 200 miles away from home, I think we'll all agree. So, in fact, there are more than 5 and a half million jobs. In theory there could also be, but - be careful - the jobs in Italy creates them the private. 75% - say Istat and INPS - of Italian jobs are created by private individuals. So, the state is committing the private to create, 75%, at least 5 and a half million jobs: that's about 4 million. For the private sector to create jobs, always with the famous multipliers of before, investment is needed. The private sector must be encouraged to invest in the supply chain and technology platform to produce new jobs. If there is no investment, the private sector, on the basis of a market that is not there, of a demand that is not there and of a political address that is not there, what should it do? This would be good in a planned economy like China, where the government establishes what, how, where and how long and then the rest adjusts. This is something that does not happen here, so it is not possible to make such a measure without the other leg, i.e. incentives to the productive sector. Still about citizenship income, what else to say? Italy is a nation in which black labor thrives. I expect then, as the Finnish prudents have done, a small experiment to see what the criticalities are and then a big implementation, provided that it is a measure with scalable safeguards. Unfortunately, this has not been done, so in the end we will be the guinea pigs and we will see what happens. There are two other things that still incorporate enough money and on which I wanted to spend a few words, since I still have some time. The first concerns the direct entrusting of the municipalities: it was 40,000 euros, now the threshold is raised to 200,000 euros, but maybe it will be 150,000 euros, which is still almost four times the previous threshold. Given that I and other people here have fought colossal battles, saying that it was the "marchettificio d'Italia" and that the threshold of trust to 40,000 euros had to be lowered, I would also reflect on this: 150,000 euros have a different impact depending on whether they are entrusted to a municipality like Rome or to a small town. In a small municipality, a trust with a threshold of 150,000 euros means everything in direct custody. This was exactly the thing that we have been fighting for years, that is to prevent the manager or the city councilman from relying on people of their trust: this is now inside the maneuver. Another thing: the funds for hydrogeological failure. It is true that it is EUR 10 billion, but it says that the regions must spend it, with their own funds. Well, then you didn't put 10 billion; you ordered someone else to spend his money on things you decide. Right measure, but at least sell it the right way; don't sell it the wrong way. Finally, a quotation on the good fortune of having withdrawn Amendment 1.2329 on recycling and the end of waste. Attention, this would have been a very dangerous amendment, because it would have completely blocked the entire recycling chain, given the breaking down of the legislation that has been in place at this time. The last - and I close - here it has been said that Italy is not like a stock exchange or as a financial market. However, you see, there is no need to demonize the stock exchange or the financial market, because it has so far been misinterpreted. The concept is that in the stock exchange, which has been so demonized, there are pension funds and mutual funds, there is the money of our grandparents, for those who still have it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Martelli. MARTELLI (Mixed). So, to say that I don't give a damn about the spread, that it reverberated over the whole curve of the rates, even the BOTs (look at the BOT auctions), and to say that it doesn't do anything if the bag comes down, because they're all speculators, it means hitting each other. In this context of European Union rules, if you want to go to battle, you cannot ignore the fact that they will always win. The way out, if you're not having fun in Monopoly, it's not trying to change the rules, but it's getting up, sitting at another table and playing with other rules. [[Applause from the Misto-Leu Group and Senator Masini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mangialavori. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Member of the Government, I rise to express all the doubts, concerns and above all the concerns, not only of the Group of my own (Forza Italia) but of the whole majority of Italians, with respect to this wretched maneuver proposed by the yellow-green Government. In recent weeks and in recent days we have seen (in fact Italy has seen) an indecent political spectacle, recited by a majority that has absolutely not proved to be up to the task entrusted to it. We have been prisoners in this House and in the classrooms of the Commission, waiting to be able to discuss a maneuver that has never arrived in the Commission, nor even today in this House. In short, to reign in these days has been the absolute confusion, until today, with a maneuver still unknown and that moreover will come armored perhaps this afternoon. Armed by a trust that will force all of us to vote for something we don't know. You have trampled on the rights of this Parliament, those rights which you pretended to defend until a few months ago, colleagues of the 5 Stars, and which you trampled on today with an embarrassing nonchalance. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We are ultimately subverting the rules of democracy. The result is in the eyes of all: a maneuver on which no intervention will be possible, a written and rewritten maneuver under dictation of Europe. A thin, skinny figure for those who, from the first day, had taken off their shirt and had pretended to show non-existent muscles and who today, instead, are forced to suffer the wands of Europe. We are gathered here to learn this umpteenth failure of the Government. I, like all my colleagues in the minority, but I also think of the majority, have worked in recent months to help write down amendments that could improve this financial law. We would have liked to have discussed and got into the substance of all the amendments; perhaps then, as Mr Vitale said yesterday, we could see them rejected, but at least we could discuss them. But no, with the imposition of trust, you members of the government have prevented every Member of Parliament from doing his duty. During this period I have waited for the many promises made by the 5 Stars to be translated into concrete measures, measures that could really improve the quality of life of our fellow citizens, especially in the South. I am thinking, for example, of some of my Calabrian colleagues, and I am thinking of my colleague, Mrs Vono, who, some time ago, speaking in this House, had announced an amendment in favour of Calabria, which was devastated by bad weather. I have waited for this amendment, as you said, to be presented in the Genoa Decree-Law and I have not seen the shadow of it; I have waited for it to be presented in the tax decree and I have not seen the shadow of it; I have waited for it to be presented in the financial manoeuvre that we are voting on today and even in this measure there is no shadow of it. Well, I had tabled this amendment and I would have liked to be able to discuss it and there is no need to raise your thumb, but only to be ashamed, dear colleague. Maybe to see him flunk, but with his vote in favour; instead his majority prevented all this. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Moreover, for the South, for Calabria there is absolutely nothing in this maneuver. I think even more of Minister Lezzi, who came to visit not more than four or five days ago, the usual catwalk, in Calabria, to say that there would be funding, aid for the affected areas. Minister Lezzi, you have also mocked the Calabrian citizens for the umpteenth time. If he wanted to respect what he said no more than five days ago, he had the opportunity to do so today; instead, even in this case, there is a failure. The triggers then made only words, only smoke, and caught by the nose not only the Calabrians, but all the Italians. I had tabled, like every colleague (but I wanted to talk about this myself), some amendments that could help the South. I had thought, for example, of a proposal that provided for a reduction of taxes for all companies that will be born in 2019 in South Italy, because this serves the South, not the income of citizenship, not the humiliation of a tip to stay at home. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I had prepared another amendment that could give the provinces in distress to repay their debts, not in five years but in ten, but it will not be possible to discuss them. I had proposed, together with my colleague Mr Gallone, an amendment that could give tax relief to all the companies that wanted to invest in the centres of the Italian hinterland, struggling with the growing phenomenon of depopulation. Thanks to your action, which cannot be defined except as unworthy, all these amendments, my own like those of all Members, become wasteful paper. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Mr President, we do not want to be prophets of misfortune, but all the data tell us that by proceeding in this way the Italian car will inexorably crash and end badly will be its unfortunate passengers, who are then us, our children, the future generations who will find themselves paying the debts accumulated by this Executive. This is the reality of things. This is the disastrous situation we are in, but you members of the government do not seem to be interested in this drama. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Ironic applause from Senator Vono]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u40	He's enlisted to speak Senator Briziarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u41	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the members of the Budget Committee and the representatives of the Government who have worked day and night and not unnecessarily, because the maxi amendment that will come is written not under dictation, but on the basis of what has been discussed and the confrontation that also involved the opposition. For two days we have heard interventions that are more similar to the comments of those frustrated fans who, unable to hope for the victory of their team, hope for the defeat of the rival team, especially when playing in Europe. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Each of the statements made would deserve an answer, but time does not allow me. We will respond, with the facts, to the citizens who voted for us. I say this above all to my colleague, Mario Monti, who is not elected and not present. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] In fact, hearing him speak of Parliament's sovereignty in this House is a bit like hearing Dracula talking about the goodness of blood donations. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] And of blood the Italian citizens have shed a lot of it, from the economic point of view. Two true things, however, even he said it. As for the first, it is true that at the living rooms and boards we prefer the festivals, the stadium and being among the people. The other real thing he said is that in this government there are the only parties that have no responsibility for the disasters of the last seven years, which have poured into the people's hands and started with his government. [[Senator Pharaoh's comments.]] Disasters for which - and I would like to remind my colleagues Iron and Verducci - it is true that we have had 2 billion guarantees because, as a country, we are bad payers, but the problem is that bad payers of promises were theirs and the guarantees we must put them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Senator Mirabelli's comments.]] But I would like to look ahead, focusing on the amendments tabled, with the certainty that the Government will evaluate them during the drafting of the maxi amendment. In the meantime, in order not to make other mistakes - and I address my colleague, Mr Ferrazzi - because there will be nothing on the end of waste, so I would like to reassure my colleague that his concerns, we are sure, will be eliminated. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] He'll read it later. After that, problems are faced and resolved, as Mr Zuliani said for the Municipalities, Mr Arrigoni for the earthquake and Mr Bergesio for agriculture. I don't repeat myself for reasons of time. I add four examples, which refer to non-minor but targeted measures. With regard to regulation and simplification, on noise, there is a company; the Molini Fagioli, which is likely to close because it is in compliance with a law on noise emissions and acceptability, while it is not in relation to the legislation on tolerability. How much does it cost to blow companies up? In this case, 1,000 farmers give 60,000 tons, there is an induced and a production: how much does it cost to the Italian GDP to shut down the companies for errors and heavy bureaucracy? I'm sure we'll correct this problem. As for the rankings and citizens who have been waiting for recruitment for years, I remember that there is the turnover block. Well, we are being challenged by a ten-month delay because the rankings will be unlocked in November, but the recruitments have been stationary for ten years. We respond to thousands of citizens who are in the rankings and can finally be hired, thanks to the extension of the rankings. As Mr Arrigoni said, the plastic sector is worth more than 1.2 billion euros and has dozens of companies and thousands of employees. We will get an extension, from here to 2023, to work and solve problems and not just to ban them. The last example I'm going to give is the geo bonus. I have tabled a proposal with my colleagues in the League, which we hope will be accepted, but the idea is not mine. A nine-year-old boy named Achilles Marigo wrote to the mayor of Rocca Pietore a few weeks ago after the disasters. The child wrote: I am Achilles Marigo, nine years old, I live in Mira, I like to go to the mountains and since I am sorry for what happened, I would like to see mountains with woods, because when I grow up I would like to enter the Forest Corps; I give you a help with my savings. This child sent 5 euros. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Well, let's hope that with the geo bonus (the name - allow me - my son chose it, who is the same age as Achilles, when I told him the story) even private individuals can invest, as it happens for the art bonus. We hope that in the country there will be a motorbike that can involve everyone and allow to collect additional resources to those that the State will invest to prevent tragedies and not to count, then, the damages and the dead. I conclude by saying that the rules, including the European ones, make sense if they are applied intelligently, flexibly and respectfully to the democratic will: in the end, even Moscovici had to recognize it at the press conference. These are rules of common sense, which on 4 March, with the vote of the Italians, we brought to the Italian Parliament and which we hope to bring to the European Parliament in May, with the same common sense, to change the rules, ensuring that they are for the people and not for the bureaucrats. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u42	Senator Alfieri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u43	Mr President, over the past few months we have heard the Government, and in particular Mr Salvini, speak on security issues, making them a priority, often linked to the issue of immigration and the management of migration flows, essentially through three slogans: we block arrivals by sea; we send back illegal illegal immigrants (more than 500,000) to their homes. I am a person who loves to control figures and numbers, to see how promises and slogans are translated into the budget, since it takes tools and resources to finance policies to keep those promises, which are central at a time when the world is changing. This is in fact a time when our society, and in particular the Italian society, is experiencing one of the greatest demographic challenges, that is, the birthday, while the southern shore of the Mediterranean, especially Africa, knows an impetuous demographic growth and addressing these issues, outside ideologies and slogans, should indeed be the priority for a country like ours. I wanted to go and read carefully what is written in the Government's contract change and, since the budget law is the first test bench, the money that was put to keep the above promises. Let us start from helping them at home, from public development aid and from the money needed to ensure that the promise used and waved in the election campaign becomes a reality. I went to see the cold numbers, with which one cannot play or cheat, much less on social media: well, since 2014, when they constituted 0.19 percent of GDP, these voices, in the different laws of stability, have increased from 0.19 to 0.27 in 2016, then with the Renzi Governments, and, last, to 0.30 with the Silveri Gentiles Government. The update note to the DEF spoke of a 0.33% and we complimented ourselves, thinking that it was going well and continuing the development trend to reach 0.50, which would be at least in the European average, and keeping that 0,7 promised on the 2030 agenda, on which we committed ourselves as European governments within the United Nations. Instead we woke up with a cold shower, because, in the document of the budget law, of the 5.8 billion promised in the Update Note we have only 5, 800 million less: for the first time, after a positive trend, we return under 0.3 and that's what we help them to their home. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] The same applies to the Africa Fund, which President Conte had presented as one of the key commitments to be supported by the European effort to make all the necessary initiatives to be more present in Libya, sub-Saharan Africa, Sahel and Niger. These are areas where important investments have been made by the previous Government, such as the opening of a new embassy and a new military mission, with sanitary tasks and the fight against terrorist infiltrations that those who know the area, like those who work, know how these latter are resettled, representing a danger. In order for not only the slogans - those related to the issues of security and the fight against trafficking in human beings - to be there, we would need more seriousness. I also say this because a third of these 5 billion is managed directly by the Ministry of the Interior: it is not money that is used for development cooperation, but it is money that is used for asylum seekers. So - and a debate had started in this sense - if we really want to postpone illegal immigrants in their countries, that money must be used better. My concern is that that money should instead be put, not on assisted voluntary returns, as we had started to do with our governments, but on forced returns, which we know are not working and have even decreased compared to what happened with the previous government. This is for the simple reason that we only have four bilateral readmission agreements, which are struggling to work. The most important is the agreement with Tunisia and we have found a very nice way to make it work: the first statement by Minister Salvini was to define the Tunisians who arrive in Italy of the delinquents and the convicts, and this we say is not the best road for the operation of those agreements. Things would work if we used that money for assisted voluntary returns linked to cooperation projects. Of course, we need to work with non-governmental organisations and we need to devote part of that billion to creating opportunities for self-entrepreneurship on the ground. If this is not enough, we are witnessing for the first time the cut in funding for the United Nations system. Once again, if you want to make returns and most of the returns made to Libya directly to other countries is done by the International Organization for Migration, when we decide to cut the funds to this Organization, we are playing against ourselves. It's a contradiction. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The theme of development cooperation, therefore, the theme of resources to be given, in multilateral, to international organizations does not have to do only with solidarity - which would already be a necessary and sufficient fundamental justification - but also has to do with the security of the country: 1,250 billion is the population of 2015 in Africa, which will become in 2050 of 2.5 billion. Do we really think we can stop a population bomb with the gunmen in the Mediterranean, whereas we could do so by really investing in development cooperation and building bilateral cooperation agreements? [[Applause from the PD Group]] The people who run away from there and the countries of origin have no interest in making bilateral readmission agreements, because those who are here send remittances and, if we light our heads for a moment and think of our past, during the second World War the billions of remittances sent to our country by the Italians who emigrated abroad represented a piece of the recovery of the economy. Those countries, therefore, will never sign bilateral agreements. From this point of view, then, we either change the way we think and start having a strategic vision and not just thinking about emergencies, or from this point of view we risk going to crash. The slogans I said at the beginning may be used to take a few extra votes, to win some ballots, but not to overcome the decisive challenges, those of development cooperation, financing international organisations, financing assisted voluntary returns that we could begin to call in a different way and collaboration with non-governmental organisations, which have nothing to do only with solidarity, but with interest and national security. Put it in your head: if you don't change your attitude, we will be able to govern immediately, but we will not solve the problems of Italy and, above all, we will not give a hope of the future to those who are on that continent, who will continue to look at European countries as the point of reference and the place to arrive. Let us change our attitude and try to go beyond the immediate, to try to give a strategic vision, not only to our foreign policy, but to the economic policy and development cooperation of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u44	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, undersecretary Garavaglia, whom I would like to thank for the availability in these fantastic days spent together in the Commission, I will not dwell on what happened in the Commission and on the maneuver, which has been well described by those who preceded me. We're in a Christmas climate and I'd like to evoke some movies. It is the moment when with the family you go to the theater or cinema and I would start from a historical Italian comedy: A Martian in Rome, by Ennio Flaiano. If we could guess here this fantastic Martian, the first thing that would come to mind is a beautiful exclamation: The umpteenth stunted maneuver. This is not a government maneuver of change. This is the maneuver of the Monti-a. He doesn't think it's seven years since that damn maneuver, but we're in perfect continuity with the same. The Martian would then ask questions and say: where have all the professors and opinionists who have trod all the talk shows in recent years telling of a stepmother Europe, their economic thesis, how would they have done them once they arrived to the government to enforce Italian sovereignty? You have had this opportunity; you have and I do not think, given the progress of the debate between the public, that you continue to carry it forward. They're all gone. They're all gone. Speaking with some of them, I was able to see the regret of the failure of their arguments at the time when they were to implement them. Then what would this amazing Martian ask himself? Was it worth six months of insults and confrontation with the European Union? As much as EUR 50 billion of excise duty increases over the next two years, this is the result of insults, drunkards, spreads that we eat for breakfast. You have been denigrating the famous spread for all these years and today some colleagues in the majority congratulate each other because from 300 it has reached 250. How things change; they always, unfortunately, change for the worse. Now a comment is made by me and no longer by the Martian: you have done the gradassi in the Homeland and you have been modest in Europe. All this has been done for a 0.8 degree of flexibility. I have a secret and confidential news: do previous governments know what they have achieved from the European Union in flexibility? The 0.7. Think of 0.1% more flexibility resulted in the government's strategic result of change. Someone in the majority has explained to us that it is a negotiation: when we negotiate parties and partners sit together. And then there is a little notation: when you negotiate, the entrepreneur thinks about his assets and his money, you negotiated by putting your hands in your pockets and you took the money of the Italian savers. All this stuff you've done in this way, not with your money, but with Italian savings and businesses. This maneuver brings us no more tax credit, less investment and does not index the lowest pensions. Then I say something that really left me stone: you reduced Ires by 50 percent to all the structures of the third sector, even those of worship that have no profit. We - I want to say this very clearly, friends of the majority - are on that side, we are in support of those volunteers who, with passion, sacrifice and humanity, devote themselves to others. Those services complement the National Health Service and do not compete and you have reduced the Ires by 50%. Not to mention the income of citizenship: I don't want to use the words of Undersecretary Giorgetti, but let me say that finally someone begins to tell the truth. He defined it: it doesn't do anything and creates black work. This was not said by a member of the opposition, the Undersecretary told the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. If you do not agree, then rebel; if you do not agree with the negotiation that this Government has conducted with the European Union go ahead, be courageous, carry out your thesis, if you believe it, otherwise this seems like a pantomime. The moment you had to bang your fists, you came back with your tail between your legs. Mr President, it is not a Christmas present, so this, on the contrary, I apologize, is a great Christmas package. Also in this case I would like to mention a movie that you may remember, a great movie: "Christmas gift" by Pupi Avati, whose protagonist was Diego Abatantuono who plays a character trascottante, arrogant, a bit 'gradasso, who thought to have a nice game of poker with friends and to pluck the chicken of turn, played by Carlo Delle Piane. In that great and magnificent game of poker, the chicken ends up plucking the gradasso. Here, this is the metaphor of this Government: you left with arrogance and overflow, you went to sit in Europe, your allies, those of Visegràd, were the first to run away, wondering where you thought you were going and saying that you were crazy and Juncker, maybe with the grappa next door (which you may have drunk) explained to you that if you did not keep the public accounts well they would pay the penalties for Italian savers and companies, and you signed 2 percent deficit-GDP ratio. That's what you did. Nothing more and nothing less. Dear colleagues in the majority, out of respect for many of you, because I recognise the intellectual honesty of this, I will not talk about deception or the fact that you are tied to the armchairs for which this Pact unites you. Allow me, however, to give you a warning: have the dignity to speak clearly to the country. You have gained so much support from the sovereign people, especially the 5 Stars that are over 30 percent, because you were believed especially by journalists, by the press that in recent years has fomented the alternative (and perhaps someone has also repented), because you considered others not credible, inadequate and sometimes corrupt. Today you entered that trail, you have not changed anything. Unlike those who preceded you, avoid thinking about popping up the list of things to do. Agcom is telling this as it told the old governments: too much monopoly. Beware, dear friends, because lies are measured with reality and soon reality will become truth and consents will be reduced, as they have been reduced for those who preceded you. President, allow me to close by paraphrasing a quote from a great statesman, a great liberal, Churchill, delivered at the Munich Conference: you could choose between war on the European Union and dishonor. You have chosen dishonor and apologized to the European Union. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u46	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps I will surprise you with how I wish to begin my speech, which follows the brilliant technical and specific speeches of my colleagues who, already in the previous hours, on yesterday evening and today morning, have had the opportunity to highlight the economic and financial inconsistency of this maneuver of which you assume total paternity. I would like to begin by commending the coherence of one of the political forces leading this government. I intervene to praise, friends to 5 Stars, and I do so without any hypocrisy, your coherence. I remember in fact the pleasant conversations with your mentor, with the comedian Grillo, with whom I shared years in restaurants and in a pleasant Roman hotel and with which I often entertained in the past years to dialogue and to discuss. I must say, however, that I would never have thought that those statements, which the funny Genoese comedian brought to the table, were, in reality, a political thought that would have been translated into parliamentary acts. He has tried so many times, with his sympathy, to convince me that the income of citizenship would be the future of this country. He always told me that industrial dynamics would lead to the fact that the majority of the people had no work, that we all had to prepare to stay at home and that, therefore, the State had to give us a living. This is what he told me and I listened to him, always thinking and remembering what his real role was and what his real activity was, that is, that of the comedian. And I have to say, I had fun too. After a few years, however, the Movement that was born from him and that inspired him has concretized these words: the happy decrease. I look at the friends and allies of the League, with whom we have spoken in the squares and continue to speak together, to the entrepreneurs, of growth. Well, happy degrowth is nothing more than the philosophical and conceptual basis, ladies and gentlemen, which marked and imprinted this economic maneuver. That is why, without irony and with absolute sincerity, I firmly praise the consistency of Movimento 5. This maneuver must not be read so much in itself, in re ipsa, in the meantime since we do not even know what the real maneuver is. There is, in fact, a maneuver 1.0, on which the House has been entertained for long weeks in vain; there is a maneuver that has arrived here in the Senate, on which we have not had the opportunity to work in the Commission, where we have not had the opportunity to express a single vote, a maneuver that has then been completely upset and that, perhaps, can still be partially modified with the super amendment of confidence, which we will know, I hope, in the afternoon. So, it's not so much about the maneuver itself, it's about a path that I want to do my analysis. A path that is born, as I said, first conceptually, at a personal level, from Grillo, but that is born, at a parliamentary level, already this spring, when we began to talk about the DEF, when we arrived at the decree dignity, when from the decree dignity we arrived at the Note of Update of the DEF, when from the Note of Update of the DEF we arrived at the tax decree and, therefore, to the budget law which it will be. Well, what have we read in all these documents and regulations? What can we read from this documentation? Meanwhile, an absolute lack of sensitivity to the requests that we have received and that come to us daily from the categories. You have managed, dear friends of the majority, to make all economic categories angry, and I say all: from taxi drivers to NCCs, from industrialists, which of course is easy to attack, because so much the industrialists and the great finance are friends of the Democratic Party (and maybe on this, in part, we can also get along), to artisans and traders, to get to my colleagues doctor accountants: in essence, that world that produces and to which, dear colleagues, does not give a damn - pass me the term - of the income of citizenship, but that would want less taxes, would want a better and clearer tax, would want a different justice. Those categories that work and wanted those billions, that you spend on citizenship income, to be invested to make our courts easier and more usable and not courts that wait ten years to issue a judgment, not tax commissions that, in fact, are the absolute untrustworthy for those who know about tax law. Or in the tax wedge, which weighs our workers down compared to the workers of the rest of the country. These are the answers that the productive class expected from us. That's why, from the big finance, from the industrialists, coming to small entrepreneurs, artisans and taxi drivers are all angry and we are angry with them. This is the analysis of your political behavior these months. This is a merciless analysis that, unfortunately, will drag the country into the recession. With this maneuver, dear friends, dear colleagues, Mr President, gentlemen of the Government, and you know it before me, you are counting the time that separates you from the European elections. I do not think that will be enough, however, because the harmful effects we will see, unfortunately, very soon. We will see them on an economy that is in recession, an economy and a relationship with Brussels that you thought you had faced outside and that instead saw you, in a miserable way, the protagonists of an absolute yieldability. I told President Conte in this House to head up to Brussels, perhaps to change something in that maneuver, but not to be dictated by Brussels. What has been the result, ladies and gentlemen? That while Brussels was elegantly dictating the maneuver to his colleagues in the Democratic Party, he arrogantly imposed it on you, ridiculing this country. This is what is not good for us; this is what the Brothers of Italy and the Right cannot accept at all. I remain in the afternoon, when, following the presentation of the government's maxi amendment, we will have some definite and definitive elements and certain data on the maneuver, further analysis. For now, I wanted to frame the policy that inspired all this. Mr President, give me one more minute. I also want to remind you that there were so many possibilities of changing the maneuver, because we are not the critics. The patriotic opposition of the Italian right (because we are the coherent right, the right that has always been Italian and for Italians) had made proposals on the merits. We were told that our tax proposals, made during the tax decree-law, would be evaluated in the draft budget law; but before the draft budget law we were told that there was no time: there was time to do welfare, to make entrepreneurs and traders angry, but there was no time to respond to the growth proposals that Brothers of Italy, in line with their vocation, had made. Finally, Mr President, remembering that you had the 80 euros available, the 80 euros you first, along with us, laughed at and condemned because they had created social discrimination between self-employed workers and employees; you had that money at your disposal to make growth, and you did not use it, either. Well, the condemnation I want to make of the policy that inspired your financial manoeuvre is absolute and total. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u48	He's enlisted to speak Senator Missa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, this maneuver certifies a great bluff, the first major failure of the government contract, which set itself ambitions to change the country, Europe, society and the economy. In reality, when you leave this House, even after the vote of confidence, you will understand that this maneuver compromises the future and strikes at the heart of the hopes and expectations of the Italians. Cut pensions, blocking the indexation of pensions; increase taxes for businesses: they are spending cuts, what you call remodulations, and they are new tax revenues. But, inevitably, these two measures will contract consumption and, above all, investment. You push Italian families towards new forms of poverty and everything happens, colleagues, within more individual, therefore more fragile and weaker communities. You promote every day, culturally, with your messages, the "me ne frego" instead of the "me" dealing with it among the citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The "we" think about it, rather than the "we" do it together with the "government" action. Separate the public from the private, society from the market, capital from work, identifying enemies and opponents everywhere. Senator colleagues, we have profoundly alternative and different ideas and programs on the value and cultural level. We have tabled, through our amendments, an alternative maneuver, showing that we could, with common sense and rationality, combine good management of public accounts with stronger support for growth and development. In fact, without pushing growth there are no structural conditions to reduce inequalities, through a new investment in services, welfare, therefore people and their rights. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We would have focused more than 2 billion euros on the income of inclusion and would have modified the Fornero law in a selective way, starting from women and usurping jobs: we would have done, that is, what Italy needed. We would have, mainly and first of all, built the first real and very important investment, necessary to produce work, growth and development, that is, we would have reduced the cost of labour, to increase wages, guaranteeing companies tax reductions in the recruitment of real workers, of people. This would have been the key measure to attract growth and development. Our counter-maneuver, however, has not been addressed and discussed. Colleagues, there is a terrible virus going through you, which is to oppose the past. We have faced the humiliation of Parliament and you have also found yourself humiliated by Europe, which has forced you to reverse, which, however, ladies and gentlemen, you are doing for the first time without the people. It is in fact a reversal without the people and costly for the people, because it has cost more than 1.5 billion euros only for the management of the debt, for the sovereignist mania to open a conflict for reasons of consensus, without any outlet and without any vision for the future of Italy and Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You have isolated Italy in Europe and you have lately corrected this approach. You have brought Italy, not us, to the risk of a debt infringement, thanks to instability, arrogance and above all to sovereignism, which imposes a conflict on you in order to maintain your consent. You have chosen subsidies, with a promise for everyone: to the unemployed you have promised an income, to the evaders a pardon, to the workers the abolition of the Fornero law, to the Italian citizens you have promised to send back home the illegals. But it's all the opposite of what you're generating. You are in fact generating new loneliness and new indifference, you are reducing the propensity to invest, you are pushing investments out of Italy. Italy, although it seems particularly solid and certain in the hands of the Government, is actually weaker and more insecure and we will find ourselves more clandestine and less security. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Act on individuals with propaganda, forgetting that there is a community of people who ask, in dignity, work and growth, but above all future and hope for our children. You announced and celebrated the abolition of poverty, without a law and without a decree. An end in itself, forgetting that the first universal measure to combat poverty is the income of inclusion, which we have achieved and which you already find in the state budget. Moreover, in this manoeuvre, the reduced rate of Ires in favour of non-commercial entities is cancelled. Look, ladies and gentlemen, that these associations, those parishes, those speakers and those social containers that have always been at work to help people and that, in fact, remove poverty from loneliness and indifference. This is the most important asset, to which we must ask for an alliance and a hand and not impose new taxes. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This approach is a shame, first of all on the cultural level: delete it, because if we want to combat poverty, we cannot do it by decree, but by an alliance in the territory, between associationism and volunteering. The main focus must be on me, as well as the resources needed to ensure a service and income. We have often wondered whether this is the result of superficiality or improvisation. I think the opposite is a political strategy and the face of sovereignism, which has also been rooted in the sentiment of Italians. You need resentment, anger, you need conflict and you need to sterilize and freeze resentment and anger to manage consent. You do not want to turn this anger and resentment into hope, because populism and sovereignism would fall. So, ladies and gentlemen, kill the future of Italy and compromise growth and willingness to invest, the only fundamental lever to give young people a better future. Unfortunately, the Italians are paying the bill for your initiatives; it has already been the savers and entrepreneurs, who today struggle more than before to attract new investments and have access to the credit useful to generate new investments. On the contrary, we are faced with curves, especially on access to credit, negative and restrictive for companies. Even the choice made in the budget law to concentrate everything in an exclusive relationship between the Government and the European Commission, even denying Parliament the fundamental acts underlying that report, is a very serious blow to democracy. It is a stroke in favour of giving the idea that you are working under track, in solitude, without the courage to tell the Italians what is also found within the agreement you have made and the verification measures, to which Italy will be subjected further by Europe. It is, above all, a direct relationship between the Government and the people, without Parliament. This is a very significant blow to democracy, but it is a strategy and not an improvisation. [[Applause from the PD Group]] But beware that the economic framework before us is again insidious and difficult, Mr President. If the institutions are therefore weaker in the face of conflicts, the whole country loses. Make sure you regain the credibility of the institutions and democracy because it serves to guarantee a future for the country. Instead of qualifying democracy with participation, put the gag to publishing. Please delete these cuts; they are shameful and restrict the freedom of information and the possibility in the territories to know, to read, to know [[Applause from the PD Group]] , to be interested and to take care of the community in which they live. They are not costs, but investments for culture, knowledge and the future of a community. Let us also be polite to allocate more resources to the municipalities to combat ludopathy. Increase taxes on gambling earnings; but with what face do you contrast deviances? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Ludopathy in communities is not contrasted without new investments towards municipalities. President, in conclusion, it is a maneuver that cuts investment. Such a maneuver cannot generate work. A maneuver that dumps 23 billion into the safeguard clauses compromises the future. Italy is not in a position today to withstand the manoeuvre of 2020-2021. Collegi, attention because doing these operations means making economic development and growth unworkable and bringing Italy to be the country in Europe with the highest VAT. In this way consumption is contracted and, therefore, through these absurd policies, development is not generated, but recession. Therefore, President, the maneuver is dangerous for the Italians and we have not criticized it for the Democratic Party, but for Italy. Our proposals were aimed at giving the country a better future. Government and majority try to listen to and monitor closely the implementation of the maneuver that will be difficult, complex and impact in an economic cycle that for the moment does not put us in a position to have a government ready to face a new challenge. Change the maneuver and correct it in the fundamental aspects. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u50	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bagnai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u51	Mr President, yesterday a parliamentary assistant greeted me by saying that I had a wonderful smile and I looked happy. I told him that I was not happy, but radiant because I was witnessing something that if I could believe it, it would be a turning point in the political life of our country. In fact, the PD, who accuses us of having us write the maneuver from Brussels, rediscovers the sovereignty, dignity and desire for autonomy of the Italian people. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] If this were true, it would be good news, because it would be perhaps the first time since 1494 (when Ludovico il Moro, as we know, called Charles VIII to solve a small problem of internal politics) that he lays in this country the practice of calling a foreign power in his own rescue to solve internal problems. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] Of this practice - it has to be said - the PD has been in recent years, I say objectively, authoritative interpreter: "it is Europe's demand or "it is the markets' demand it has been the battle cry that we have heard so many times, while our authoritative and competent political interlocutors hurled at the assault of the social state, the school, the small and medium-sized enterprise and the institutions that constituted and constitute the backbone of the country, always with the support of a foreign Union that for obvious reasons could no longer be the Soviet one, but - while changing the adjective - the subalternity had not changed. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] MIRABELLI (PD). Arguments zero! BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). However, the critical attitude towards Europe that we see today is also not an absolute novelty. If we stand still, prisoners of regulations and bureaucracy, Europe is over. Who said these words? A sovereignist? No, a leader of the current opposition, who has found a refuge in the branch of Parliament that once wanted to abolish and which today asks us to respect. We too want to respect this branch of Parliament. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from the PD Group]] The point is that I would like us to be objective and serene in recognizing that the compression of the time of the debate did not depend on us, but depends on a set of exogenous rules that have so far gone well with oppositions, because they have served to rid themselves of political responsibility, when they said: "I have to do so, excuse me dear, but Europe asks me to do so." 11:47 a.m. (Following BAGNAI). Now it can't work like this anymore. Now the oppositions are in a dead end, because every single one of them is increasingly highlighting the anti-democratic drift that the project has taken. Of course the voters are watching these amazing people and wondering: who brought us in these conditions? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] The answer is "they" and therefore for us it's fine, even if the amazing ones are not sincere, because they are so much to our advantage. MIRABELLI (PD). It's about the maneuver and what it says, since you know it! BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). We're resisting. President Conte, whom you have variously described as inconsistent, willful or defeated, actually did something that before us the previous governments had done only to chat, when they had the real chance to act. He negotiated with Europe, negotiated seriously and without compromising the country's interest, as has been repeated here several times. He has also done a work of mercy, which is to visit the sick, because the European Union is deeply ill and only a few examples are enough to highlight it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] It is clear that more could have been achieved. Of course, more can be achieved in any serious negotiations. We can always behave better and we are always willing to listen to the advice of those who can no longer set a bad example, as I have already mentioned elsewhere. Meanwhile, what has happened has highlighted the absurdity of European rules, in particular their procyclical character. We were told that our growth forecasts were wrong and we had to make more realistic forecasts. The truth is different and that is a technical junction. Unfortunately, Europe is based on opaque mechanisms. FARAONE (PD). You've dropped your pants! BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). So it was necessary to revise downwards the estimate of growth in order to prove a condition of necessity, the so-called output gap, without which Europe would not have magnanimously allowed us to have more resources to revive the country. Unfortunately, the problem is that if you are asked to reduce growth, resources are at the top of that growth, and so in the end Europe forces you to make an effort with less resources than you need. These are the miracles of structural balances, of an opaque and absurd mechanism, as well as scientifically unfounded. It would have been better, then, to keep the rule of 3% on the nominal balance, that rule that Prodi finally stupid, but that had two advantages: that of being transparent and verifiable, two things very important in democracy, because here we are talking about forecasts, hypotheses and multiple estimates and on this we are mortgaged the future of our country. On the other hand, the facts show that the rules of the Treaties can Let's afford them. The famous rule of 3% of the ratio of nominal budget balance to nominal GDP Italy can afford it. Do you know who violated her most among the great European countries? Of course, we have Greece and Portugal in the lead, whose economies have been devastated by the crisis. But then, with 13 violations, he follows France; and 11 of these violations are consecutive. Dear President, let me tell you something fresh: Commissioner Oettinger asked for an infringement procedure to be opened against France and, when they told him that Moscovici did not agree, he said that he did not care much. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] This is a first example of European brotherhood; conflicts are emerging. This, perhaps, is the only argument I would have accepted by the opposition: since the conflicts were about to emerge and it was so obvious that they were emerging, this would have advised a more prudent attitude, waiting for others to fight each other, in this wonderful European family, without giving them pretexts to attribute to us some criticalities that do not depend on us. It was very interesting yesterday to hear someone mention BlackRock, which advises investors not to buy BTPs. Now, the jump from Marx to BlackRock is pretty bold, but it's mostly very significant. A few days ago, in fact, "Il Sole 24 Ore" told us that this important consulting company was the leader among the companies that managed, at barrels of tens of millions, the stress tests on European banks. That is, the Single Supervisory Authority assigns this task to private companies, in clear conflict of interest, because it is clear that, if you go and say what a bank is worth and then treat the securities of that bank, maybe something can go wrong. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] That is why these companies are given the task of guaranteeing the credit quality of our institutions. This is the result of fast-paced reforms; ambitious reforms, of course, but which have been made without the necessary political consensus and without the necessary resources and instruments. The fact that a single currency involved a single supervision had to be clear from the beginning; then it was not necessary to run to the shelter with consultants, who did what they could, for goodness sake. You are fully aware of what it means to entrust those who speculate on bank securities with the task of assessing their merits. This is so absurd, I tell you a second Franco-German conflict: Schäuble, who is not exactly a friend of ours, asked Mrs Nouy for an account of what happened, to see if there was already evidence of leaks of news and conflicts of interest. This is the ECB, the institution that a few days ago an authoritative economist, Donato Masciandaro, called "the lighthouse in the mists," a beacon so efficient that it cannot even follow the course that he himself indicates, because we the inflation at 2%, that would help us relieve the load of our weight, we have not seen it. We have deflation and still despairs of being able to achieve that goal. But this is not the only absurd of the institutions that our opponents now call to them comfort and reinforcement. MIRABELLI (PD). The maneuver! STEFANO (PD). It's about the maneuver! BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). And I come for a moment to the contents of the maneuver, picking up the invitation. [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u52	We are in general discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u53	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). In the maneuver there is an interesting paragraph, which serves to remedy one of the many disasters done by decree shots and escaped from the single vigilance. And that is what would have happened, if we had not intervened, with the cooperative banking groups, wanted by the current minority (if it is, there will be a reason and perhaps one is also the reform of which I am talking about). If we had not intervened, on the first consolidated financial statements these banks (the two leaders) would have lost 2.6 billion euros of assets. This is the result of the fast-paced reforms, and this is the result of the vigilance that only monitors what interests you to watch. Okay? These are our asymmetries. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] And I want to say that it is not easy to overcome this and other disasters scattered in the folds of our order, to these trains launched in running, always to show that they arrive before others, to remedy a complex of inferiority that our citizens no longer feel and of which you have made yourself interpreters in some way, putting the country in conditions of serious and objective difficulty. To this I would add another measure contained in the maneuver: to allow small banks to adopt accounting standards more suited to their business model, as happens across Europe, as happens in particular in Germany. Do you like Germany? So let's do the same thing in Germany. How did Germany do it? He violated the 3 percent rule seven times (us eight) and his banks have national accounting standards. Well, from this maneuver onward, even our small banks can have the same power. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] They may seem irrelevant, but they're not. They are the sign that in this country the will to govern economic processes is being affirmed autonomously and this is what annoys the European interlocutors. The Commission is not attacking us on the balance, because a deficit-GDP ratio of 2.4% was very good in terms of debt sustainability; what is bothering us is that there is less surplus here. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] It is the deficit of subalternity that annoys the European institutions. It will have to be right, Mr President, because with the next European elections music will change up there too and the next move will be negotiated with partners more attentive to the interests of individual countries. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups, whose senators stand up. Congratulations. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u54	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall not discuss the Franco-German conflict, the peace of Aachen or anything else, because I am not a university professor like Mr Bagnai. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I'm a journalist, even worried about the damage this maneuver does to my category, but let's forget it. Mr Bagnai says that there has been a deficit of subalternity, but you are the quintessence of subalternity to Europe with what has happened these days. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I've seen a lot of maneuvers, big amendments, trusts, and I think President Calderoli like me, so I'm hardly surprised, but this time I was surprised too. You held us hostage in the Senate, you didn't vote for an amendment, and we tell the President of the Republic to watch over the violation of Article 72 of the Constitution. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is very serious, in fact, that the Budget Committee and the Senate cannot discuss the maneuver, but Moscovici and Juncker can dictate it to you in detail. This is the feast of subalternity at the European Commission, a tragic feast. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] On the substance you have dictated the maneuver to Europe, the Conte Government writes and Parliament has been gagged in an unbecoming, unconstitutional and very serious way. There was no vote on an amendment in the budget committee. The blameless President of the Budget Commission, without experience, asked: what should I do, Mr President? A person who has a responsibility applies the rules and the Constitution; don't come here and ask what he has to do. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You lied, you lied to the country: the 2.4% GDP deficit ratio went up to 2%; maybe growth was at one percent. We call ourselves Forza Italia, we support Italy and we are against who gave Italy to Juncker's Europe. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Let us be clear, because the President of the European Parliament, Mr Tajani, when Juncker oversaw it in the Strasbourg Chamber, fixed it, did not make the scribbler like Count and like others. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Therefore, if you want Italian pride lessons, we can offer them for free. You cheated on deficit figures and citizenship income. Of the two: the figure is cut to 6 billion, because one billion goes to employment centers. If the poor who have the right, to whom we look with great respect, are 6 million, the division of 6 billion for these people gives 83 euros per month: the 80 euros that others have used with not very fausti effects return. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] If instead we want to give 780 euros per month, the audience is 600,000 people, not 6 million. You lied about printed cards, about the number of poor people! Shame on you, you say one is worth one, but 600,000 isn't worth 6 million! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You lied to the country, it won't have citizenship income. And I see triumphalism, tomorrow you have the party. You should go hide instead of partying in the streets! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Maybe Grillo complimented you on the comedy art, which especially the 5 Stars had. You have done harm to the disabled, and I want to say that in Parliament there is no hunt for Members, there is shame for you who have forced Members to abandon you because you have rejected the proposals for the disabled. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] That is the truth, dear Di Maio: health care has been massacred. There's been surgery on gold pensions. With great propaganda it was said to hit the golden pensions. However, that false propaganda, which affects a few people who are right to pay, wants to hide the blockade of the indexing of poor people's pensions. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] You have done this: the block of pensions of 1,000 euros net. The country knows that this government blocks the pensions of the poor and then makes propaganda about others. The flat tax's missing. We, with the center-right program, consistently support flat tax for everyone and not the little scam you've done for very few. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] Under the dictation of Juncker, Moscovici and others you cut investment. There are 2 billion more that can be cut if the accounts don't come back (and they won't come back). You have taken 2 billion from the so-called 100 and 2 billion share operation to the income of citizenship. You have taken away investment in railways and public works, which means unemployment. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] That's the truth. And your previous decree of dignity makes 26 jobs disappear every hour of the day or night. It's the poverty decree, but the balcony! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] This maneuver has affected even the speakers. The Ires maneuver affects associations, businesses and speakers. Yesterday the Italian Bishops' Conference also had to wand you, because you have also mortified those who do not make commercial speculation, but manage activities to gather people who gather. You have reduced the benefits for businesses, cancelled a number of tax benefits and out of manoeuvre you have destroyed the savings. Already today you have impoverished Italian families, because the savings of Italians are worth less. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] You guys in the government couldn't sell the BTPs. At the last auction, out of 9 billion, they were sold for an amount of 2. The markets are disgusting and hateful, but when there's a Government joke nobody buys public bonds. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] You have massacred security and the armed forces, because you want to reduce the military to a stage hole for the Rays. We will not allow this shame! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] We apologize, on your behalf, to the Italian soldiers who work for our security at home and abroad, who do not have to go to the streets that must be managed by the municipalities. If the Rays are not capable, resign and do not invoke the Armed Forces! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] You taxed the SUVs. Senator Gallone and other colleagues have pointed out to me that you have also taxed the Doblò, which is used by bakeries and artisans to carry out their activities and is often also used by disabled people for its characteristics. We'll see if you can inflict this punishment. Is the baker's or disabled's Doblò a luxury car? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] You slaughtered that, too. You've done everything. And then there's publishing. We are in solidarity with those journalists who, because of you, will lose their jobs. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] Censors of freedom! Censors of truth! Enemies of pluralism, information and knowledge! The list of massacres is huge. Some have noticed, others will notice. In the press conference that President Bernini held just now, it was said that you are tarassing everyone. My colleague Giro suggests a cadeau to Conte: the film "I tartassati" with Totò and Fabrizi. Dear colleague Giro, I welcome the suggestion of 'I tartassati', but that is a movie that makes you laugh, while this is a government that makes Italy cry and has brought her to her knees in front of Juncker. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] We've been here waiting for the missives. For a week, my colleagues in the Budget Committee did not know what to discuss. We wanted answers on public and private transport and bathing. We ask you to be concrete. Forza Italia asks that for some categories - bathing and walking - there be immediate answers. Raise your head against Europe, as we ask you and how this House decided, on a proposal from Forza Italia, on 27 June last, to ask for the protection of those categories! Ladies and gentlemen, we are not here: the people's lawyer has turned out to be a shorthand by Juncker, but we are Forza Italia and we will vote against you in the name of the Italian people. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u56	She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is surreal to listen to oppositions about the lack of debate on the budget law. I remember in the last parliamentary term budget laws rushed in, at the last minute [[Comments from the PD Group]] , without rapporteur, and maximmments that were missing a piece. For the government and for the majority, however, everything was fine and it was necessary to vote as it was. [[Senator Lonardo's comments.]] And now there are those who... Giro (FI-BP). Why, is that the same thing? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Gasparri has spoken as well as all the others, colleagues: we allow Senator Bottici to carry out his speech. BOTTICS (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. And now I hear about Parliament's dignity: you are not credible and, in doing so, you will be even less so. I would like to make some history, because in two days I have heard so much about these safeguard clauses on VAT, as if we had put them. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). You doubled them! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marcucci, I see you're helping me keep order in the group. BOTTICS (M5S). I didn't think there was going to be a debate on this. Looks like we introduced them, but I'd like to make some history. The first clause was born with Decree-Law No 98 of 2011, under the Berlusconi Government, precisely on July 6, 2011. VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. It was a Berlusconi-Lega government! BOTTICS (M5S). Then, in 2013, the Letta Government increased VAT from 21 to 22 and moved the other clauses. This is how it works: year by year we go to sterilize the safeguard clauses, which is what we are doing; but we cannot do it, because... GIRO (FI-BP). Is it the Government of Change? Change! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giro, it is not for you to correct the drafts: if the senator makes mistakes, surely in good faith, it ends there. Giro (FI-BP). I'm talking about their maneuver! VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. But you decide who needs to talk? AIROLA (M5S). Are we interrupting? So? [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u58	Senator Airola, it's time to go for a walk to the buvette: go out, please, also because you're disturbing a colleague of your Group. BOTTICS (M5S). The sterilization of VAT takes place year by year and so have we. I would also like to recall the maneuver tears and blood of the senator for life Monti, elected - indeed, nominated - by the President emeritus Napolitano
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u59	[[Applause from the M5S Group]] , because it had to somehow bring Italy and the Italians to another budget, on another road. Too bad that this road, despite the passage from the Monti government to the Letta, Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri governments, approached a ravine. This is the country that we found and that is why the citizens on March 4 chose other representatives: the government that had been there until then had led the citizens to cry continuously and to shed blood. We are the Government of Change. VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. You were! BOTTICS (M5S). It's true. Instead of austerity manoeuvres, which went against the citizens but in favour of the lobby, we decided to make another manoeuvre and we are trying to save the country, a country that has more than 5 million poor, which has an elderly population that, as has been recalled, cannot be cured or does not turn on the heating. This is the people you gave us, not to mention the young people forced to flee. We have included in this maneuver incentives for start-ups, because we believe that that is the right way to make the country grow. BELLANOVA (PD). You cut! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, please. FARAONE (PD). Read it, maneuver! BOTTICS (M5S). We've put citizenship income in the maneuver. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] In this House I have heard that we have copied the income of inclusion (Rei): I would also like to make a clarification on this. Given that, in the last legislature, all citizens were talking about citizenship income and all citizens needed and continue to need citizenship income, the old PD government introduced the Rei, that is, the bad copy of citizenship income, let's say. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] You have a narration of your own, and you can see things and tell them your way. [[Comments from the PD Group]] It's a continuum, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u60	Senator, there is now a moment of rare silence, you exploit it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u61	BOTTICS (M5S). They approach to understand, because otherwise they don't get there. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] With the approval of the newspapers, you have told a country and a story all of your own, starting already from the reform of the Constitution. I remember the headlines in which catastrophes were expected, if it had won the no: it won the no and there was no catastrophe. You went on to say, before the elections, that if they won the populist forces, it would be a tragedy: nothing happened. Before the establishment of the idem government: you said that they would rule the anti-euro and there headlines in the newspapers, with the press that in the meantime stirred up the climate of terror and mistrust towards the country. That is why we had to go to the European Commission to regain confidence. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from Senator Bellanova.]] All you have done to date has been to destroy the country, not only morally, but also in the confidence that other countries had in Italy. We in the budget law, as I said, have included the income of citizenship, the 100th share, the female option, the increase in minimum pensions. VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Done! BOTTICS (M5S). The cut in the gold pensions, the cut in the publishing funds, the one that endorsed the stories or cheated on the copies sold. VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Done! BOTTICS (M5S). Plus 10 billion on the hydrogeological failure and then they come to talk to us [[. (Comments from the PD Group.]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Done! BOTTICS (M5S). I'm sorry, Mr. President, but it's really annoying. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. They need to be spotted first. I already have some suspicions: despite moving, I follow the voices. BOTTICS (M5S). Because they're stains, they're moving for that. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u62	Please conclude, Senator Bottici.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u63	D'ARIENZO (PD). You're the spot! Mr Verducci (PD). But how dare you? You can't afford it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Verducci, please. Conclude, Senator. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] There is such tranquility that I can't even hear what is being said. BOTTICS (M5S). We put... [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Mr Verducci (PD). You can't insult me. How dare you? We're not stencils. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Like the other time, I will check what has been said. BOTTICS (M5S). We have allocated more than 10 billion for hydrogeological failure. [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u64	Senator Verducci, if I can't hear, I can't even intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u65	BOTTICS (M5S). In this House I heard of strategy, we made a strategy. You brought the country into emergency all the time, and the bridge crashes aren't our fault, but we're on it. We're talking about Rome and its holes. Right and left left Rome with 13 billion holes. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Comments from the PD Group]] Stay calm because you will still have at least five years to learn how to do the opposition and, therefore, you will learn calmly how it works. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u66	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u69	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr. President, I've reported it... [[Senator Airola's comments.]] VALENT (PD). How dare you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Tell me, talk to me, Senator Marcucci. Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I have told the Presidency on several occasions. It is unacceptable that the Presidency should not intervene in the face of unjustified offense. [[Applause from the PD Group]] If there's a stain, it's senators like the senator who just said they're ruining our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You can't let them offend us. Dear Senator Bottici, you who were the main actress of confusion and violence in this House, do not come and teach us lessons. The dots aren't us, you're a stain for the whole country. Shame on you to offend your colleagues. You don't have to let that happen, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u70	Senator Marcucci, I didn't hear it and I specified it and, like last time, I'm going to examine the shorthand report. I heard clearly what you said. There are certain sentences that will be sanctioned; otherwise we would be faced with a case of slander. We'll verify which of the two has performed these behaviors. [[Comments from Senators Bellanova and Marcucci.]] Mr Verducci (PD). Senator Quaestor who provokes in the Chamber! BELLANOVA (PD). He's traveling first class! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I didn't hear it; I guarantee you. [[Comments from the PD Group]] I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u71	Mr President, Senators and Senators, I would like to thank sincerely the Senators and Senators of the Budget Commission who have patiently followed the work at this difficult stage. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]] You will have the opportunity to note that many of the groups' requests will be accepted precisely because the debate has been in-depth, complicated - we know - but certainly not useless, indeed it has been very useful. Of course, let us not forget some political considerations, which we will carry out at other stages. We must give a series of answers to the questions raised in the general debate and to the many questions put. We will not focus on the most important issues such as citizenship income and the 100 quota, which has been discussed extensively, nor will we go into the substance of the last amendments because, as is often the case when we evaluate a maneuver, we look at the last mile and forget what is behind it. We will therefore concentrate on responding to the many speeches of last night and today, on two issues in particular, namely the issue of investment and the social issue. Now, the fundamental consideration that moves this maneuver is as follows: why, despite a particularly favorable astral conjuncture - oil at minima, interest rates at minima, QE, the monetary expansion of Draghi - in recent years the country has remained twenty-seventh out of 27 in the ranking relative to growth? It was therefore necessary to reverse the course, otherwise, if we continued this way, we remained twenty-sevenths out of 27. That is the basic consideration. [[Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] The two issues we have mentioned, investment and social, must be considered together because the country goes ahead and creates GDP if there is social cohesion and if there is investment in growth. As far as investment is concerned, we have an issue relating to the amount of investment and one relating to the spending of investment. Now, some 100 billion are added to 2034, but 150 billion had already been allocated. The question we asked ourselves is: why was not a single euro spent on this quota last year, when about 4.5 billion were available? In this regard, we have a number of reasons on which we try to intervene in a timely manner: accounting rules, bureaucracy, the choice to always do new things and forget about extraordinary maintenance and litigation with local authorities. As far as accounting rules are concerned, it was impossible for local authorities and municipalities to spend the administrative surplus freely. With a circular of the accountantry we have removed this bond for which from next year, indeed already from this year, all the municipalities of Italy can freely spend the surplus of administration. This alone involves about a billion additional investments. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] With regard to bureaucracy, however, the code of procurement, made with the best intentions of the world, has blocked investment expenditure in an important way, totally in many realities and especially in smaller entities. Also in this case, in the mores of a total revision of the code of contracts, banally raising the thresholds contained in the code (which is done with this bill of budget), we free the ability to spend many small, medium and great Municipalities of Italy. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] In conjunction with this, a dedicated fund is placed, on the Spanish model, precisely to favor those small investments spread throughout the country that allow a faster restart of GDP, investments that have a double benefit: first of all the fast spending because they are of small amount and then, above all, the asphalts do not matter so, thanks to these small investments, we will have the country filled with orange vests, which are a little 'better than the yellow ones, and they are the vests of our companies that will return to do some work. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Especially because the construction sector has been the most affected by the crisis. [[Protests from the PD Group]] We're in trouble. Excuse me. May I? MARGIOTTA (PD). The TAV! FARAONE (PD). Olympics, with everything you've blocked! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do you want to listen or not? Mr Laus (PD). No! Mr Marcucci (PD). But it's about an amendment that doesn't exist! [[Protests from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u72	Senator Laus, if you don't want to listen, you can go out if you want.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u73	Mr Garavaglia, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. I'll keep going, ma'am. Mr Marcucci (PD). That's not possible. It's about something that doesn't exist! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marcucci, sit down! [[Senator Laus exhibits a sign bearing the words: "29 million snatched at Piemonte." #Apostolic]] Senator Laus, first remove that sign! Mr Garavaglia, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. Forget it, ma'am. It doesn't matter. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Secondly, the census. Mr Garavaglia, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. So we were talking about bureaucracy. Banally, by reviewing the thresholds of the procurement code, combined with this support measure spread throughout the territory and for all municipalities of medium and small size, we are convinced that we can get GDP back on track a little bit, especially in the construction sector. On maintenance, again in this case the choice to call around a table the major public companies allows to restart much faster the expense. Let me give you an example. The ANAS alone has a budget of about EUR 1 billion for extraordinary maintenance. Banally, doubling from one billion to two billion, in the same budget existing within the company, the extraordinary maintenance allows to restart many yards, also here throughout the country, in very fast times. Then there is the issue of litigation with local and regional authorities. Of those already existing 150 billions, to which are added the approximately one hundred staked with the bill of budget, of investments linked to the activity on the territory, approximately eighty were blocked for a dispute with the Regions. Simply calling the Regions around a table we closed an agreement in the State-Regions Conference and unlocked over 80 billion, which were precisely blocked for a litigation. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] It is a matter of sitting around a table and discussing with the local authorities, which has become a bit difficult in recent years. The wall against the wall was preferred and a certain relationship of centralization, and not of dialogue, with the territorial authorities. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] Let's move on to social. We are not talking about citizenship income and other issues, which we know represent a large part of social life. One forgets, in looking at the maneuver, that over 500 million euros more have been placed on the social, over half a billion more. 123 million more on the bottom of non-self-sufficiency. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Senator Collina's comments.]] One hundred million more on the household and disabled fund, which did not exist. It is a hundred million for the disability and family fund, which did not exist, put into effect, i.e. not for a year but forever. Additional 120 million from the Social Policy Fund: additional. One hundred million for the disabled transport and care fund. Transport and assistance: considering therefore also the hours of school assistance. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Zero hours were foreseen on these points in the multiannual budget. We had forgotten to stake out resources to bring disabled people to school and to ensure the hours of care for disabled people at school. We have brought these resources, from the 75 million which, in difficulty, were sometimes put into practice, to a hundred million from time to time. These are very important interventions in the social field, which we hear little about. The additional half a billion, however, must also be considered in relation to the income of citizenship. I'll explain. Since the audience overlaps a lot, for obvious reasons, this means that, since this expenditure is then all distributed, essentially, to the municipalities, with the so-called zone plans, most of it ends there. This expenditure will therefore be free for new interventions, since most of the audience still insists on the income of citizenship, thus favouring a greater spread of this welfare of communities, necessary especially in the area of social and health integration, which we know is one of the most important themes of the future of our nation. We are therefore talking about health care. Despite all the difficulties of the case, the health fund increases by 4.5 billion over the three years but above all, and even this measure has been little emphasized, have been allocated four billion euros of additional investments in health building, which there is a huge need for in our country. Therefore, these investments are also particularly targeted on a sector that needs special assistance. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] I will conclude on the subject of local and regional authorities. Patriarca (PD). You forgot Ires and commercial debts! Mr Garavaglia, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. He's right. I forgot about the companies. Mr Marcucci (PD). TAV, too! Mr Garavaglia, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. Let's talk about companies, before we get to the last point, which is the local authorities. [[Live comments from the PD Group.]] In chaos, I forgot to talk about the business theme. Excuse me, senators and senators. Development and detaxation of companies: we know that the two go hand in hand. For development we need investment and also less taxes; this is obvious and, above all, it is appropriate and normal at a time when the world is going that way. If we go towards a detaxation in many countries, we too must move in that direction. It is not easy in this context, but important interventions have been made. The first, the most well-known, is that of smaller VAT consignments. It is an absolutely important issue, because having extended the minimum regime to 65,000 euros (there is then the part from 65,000 to 100,000 euros to 20 percent) has a double, indeed a triple value. First of all, it is a huge tax reduction: you have all seen, from the tables, at least you pay; secondly, it is a huge simplification, because the "poor", lucky entrepreneurs and craftsmen who will be able to adhere to this very simplified regime will be able to return to pay taxes under the Vanoni law, as our old people did, once a month, alone, without having to spend thousands of euros in consulting. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is, therefore, a huge simplification and a further reduction in costs. But the third value of this measure, which is often underestimated, is the potential for emergence of the submerged which it objectively has. Let's face it. We have areas in the country where there is a rate of youth unemployment with abnormal percentages; where there is no so-called informal activity we would have the revolution: there is no revolution because there is informal activity, basically undeclared work. The minimum system is also a very effective tool to finally bring out, in so many realities, the work that exists and that is simply not denounced. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is a fundamental point, which we must stress, of this measure. In addition to this, other interventions have been made, but I do not want to go too far. The last is the reduction in INAIL premiums, which has been expected for years; the INAIL premiums are reduced by 30% and it is a great thing, which insists above all in favour of those companies in the construction sector, which are the ones that are suffering the most from the crisis in recent years. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Not to mention the doubling of the taxing of the IMU on the sheds: this is also a very heartfelt measure, especially by medium-small entrepreneurs. I'm closing on local authorities. There has been a phase of dialogue with the territorial authorities (Comuni, Provinces, Regions), which we believe is appropriate. For the municipalities, in addition to the classic issues, we have introduced a fund on the Spanish model, to give a strong boost to investment and, alongside this, the simplification of the code of contracts: it is a lot of stuff, added to the total release of the expenditure of the administrative surplus. For the Provinces there is the recognition of the dignity of an institution that was wanted cancelled, that the sovereign people decided to remain and that unfortunately was totally definanced, so much so that the worst structures put in our country are the two structures at the head of the Provinces: the higher schools and the provincial roads. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Returning dignity to the Province agency means finally solving the problem of the maintenance of these two assets, which are strategic for the country. That EUR 250 million from now is a very important signal in this direction, plus other investment funds, which we will then see in detail. Finally, for the Regions we have reached an important agreement on several issues. We spoke before the health issue; attached to this is the issue of contracts. One forgets - but I think it is important to note it here - that the agreement that we have concluded with the Regions has avoided the cut of 1.4 billion euros on the funds of social policies. Not self-sufficiency, the fund of social policies, textbooks, the fund for the disabled: these funds would have been cancelled if no solution had been found. Well, not only have we found a solution, eliminating EUR 1.4 billion in cuts, but we have increased social funds by EUR half a billion: in this context we think it is a good job. [[Long-standing applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups, whose senators stand up. Congratulations. Senator Pharaoh raises a sign. Protests from Senator Moronese.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u74	Senator Pharaoh, I remember your picturesque ability, but today it's misplaced compared to the cameras, which don't "pick" you. So, I invite you to give up.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u75	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u76	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.Tab.1.5000.5, tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 2 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u77	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u80	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am announcing the withdrawal of Amendment 3.Tab.2.3.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u81	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.Tab.2.1.5, tabled by Senator Pichetto Fratin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.Tab.2.2.5, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.Tab.2.3.5 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.Tab.2.4.5, tabled by Senator Renzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.Tab.2.5.5, tabled by Senator Vattuone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.Tab.2.6.5, tabled by Senator Garavini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.Tab.2.7.5, tabled by Senator Dal Mas. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 7, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u82	Mr President, the Government is against Amendment No 7. 1
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u83	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.1, tabled by Senator Garavini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We move on to Article 9, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u84	Mr President, the Government is against all the amendments to Article 9.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u87	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we withdraw Amendments Nos 9.Tab.8.1.5 and 9.Tab.8.2.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u90	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to add my signature to Amendments Nos 9.Tab.8.1.5 and 9.Tab.8.2.5 and make them my own.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u91	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.Tab.8.1.5, tabled by Senator Romeo and other senators, which was subsequently withdrawn and taken over by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.Tab.8.2.5, tabled by Senator Romeo and other senators, which was subsequently withdrawn and taken over by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 9.0.1 and 10.1 are inadmissible. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 12.1 is inadmissible. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 12. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 13, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u92	Mr President, I am against Amendment 13.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u93	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.1 tabled by Senator Garavini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 14. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 16. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 17. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 18, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u94	Mr President, I am against Amendments 18.1, 18.2, 18.3 and 18.5000/1. On the other hand, I am in favour of Amendments 18.4, 18.5000 and 18.5001.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u95	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.1 tabled by Senator Pittella and other senators, identical to amendment 18.2 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.3 tabled by Senator Missa and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.4 tabled by Senator Romeo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.5000/1, tabled by Senator Laus. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.5000, tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18,5001, tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 18 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 19. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We have thus completed the examination of the second section of the bill.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u98	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. As announced and widely discussed at the Conference of the Leaders, we call for a suspension of the sitting until 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u101	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, the government wants to write this budget law on its own, so write it down and present us with the amendment on which to put trust. Given that it has not been disturbed by the votes of the Commission and that the votes we have now expressed should not disturb the serenity of those who are writing (part under dictation of Brussels and part with other criteria) the new budget law, it would be logical for the government to come here with the maxi amendment or to go ahead and vote on the amendments, as it should be and as it has always been done in the past. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u102	Senator Malan, the suspension was announced at yesterday's Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u105	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I would like to ask just one question. The organisation that was defined at the Conference of the Leaders provides for an interruption until 4 p.m. My question is: since I have been burned with cold water on the government's commitments and announcements regarding the amendments in the Commission, will the maxi amendment arrive at 4 p.m., yes or no? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I wouldn't want us to be on a path again. So I'd ask for confirmation.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u108	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I too am speaking on the order of business. I have to say I had a strange feeling, because in the last few hours I was always getting along with my colleague Errani. This time I do not agree with him, because at the Conference of the Leaders a very precise commitment has been made. The government in that place has made a commitment, on the basis of which a timetable has been drawn up, which includes this evening's live television. I therefore believe that there can be no doubt that the maxi amendment will be tabled at 4 p.m., partly because the representative of the Government has just represented a situation in this House which was clearly not yet presented and which I assume is the one contained in the maxi amendment. I therefore take for granted the arrival of the maxi amendment. On the contrary, I also offer the President-in-Office's willingness by the Democratic Party, certainly already being ready for the maxi amendment, to anticipate the resumption of work, convening a Conference of the Leaders to begin to debate and vote at last in this House. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u109	For now we agree on the resumption of work at 4 p.m. If there is a reasonable advance, we will make direct contacts for a Conference of Leaders that will make us change the time of 4 p.m. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12.54 p.m. and resumed at 16.04 p.m.) Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting of the Conference of Leaders is under way. The sitting was therefore suspended again and will resume at the end of the Conference. [[Comments of Senators Bellanova and Fedeli. The sitting was suspended at 4.05 p.m. and resumed at 6.28 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u110	The Conference of Leaders remodelled the timing of the discussion of the question of trust announced by the Government on the amendment entirely replacing the first section of the budget law. The presentation to the Senate of the maxi amendment is scheduled for tomorrow's sitting, which will begin at 2 p.m. ( [[There are protests from PD and FI-BP groups.]] The debate on confidence, for which about four hours have been divided on the basis of specific requests from the groups, will take place from 16.00, after the President's ruling on the admissibility of the amendment on the basis of the opinion of the 5th standing Commission. They will follow the explanations of vote, with direct television shooting, starting at 8.30 p.m. and, therefore, he will call her. VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Shame! Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. After the vote of confidence, the session will be suspended to allow the Government to present the second Note of Variations, which will be referred to the 5th Permanent Commission. (Senator Bellanova displays a sign.) Senator Bellanova, remove that sign! You are constantly disturbing the House and I have warned you several times already! ( [[Lives protests from FI-BP and PD groups.]] VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. That's an insult! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't understand why you're protesting without first listening to the calendar. We will then proceed to the vote of the Note of variations and to the final vote of the draft budget law. The Conference of Leaders also unanimously approved the timetable for work from 9 to 17 January. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] The Assembly will resume its work on Wednesday 9 January, at 9.30 a.m. [[Comments from the PD Group]] , with the discussion of the Ratification of the Lighthouse Convention on Cultural Heritage and other ratifications of international agreements concluded by the Commission for Foreign Affairs [[Comments from the PD Group]] , the documents defined by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities and the draft law on video surveillance, where concluded by the Commission. [[Comments from FI-BP and PD Groups.]] The days of Tuesday 8 and Thursday 10 January will be dedicated to the work of the Commissions. [[Comments from FI-BP and PD Groups.]] The calendar of the week from 15 to 17 January provides for the discussion of the decree-law simplifications, the inspection union and, at 15 hours on Thursday 17, the question time. [[Comments from FI-BP and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u111	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, has adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following integration to the program of the Senate's work for the months of November and December 2018: - Drawing of law n. 897 and related - Measures to prevent and combat conduct of ill-treatment or abuse, even of a psychological nature, to the detriment of minors in educational services for children and in children's schools and persons hosted in socio-sanitary and socio-assistant structures for the elderly and persons with disabilities and delegation to the Government in the matter of staff training (approved by the Chamber of Deputies)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u112	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted - in accordance with Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the agenda of the Assembly from 22 December 2018 to 17 January 2019: [[Saturday, December 22, h. 14 - Follow-up to bill n. 981 - Budget Act for 2019 and multi-annual budget for the three-year period 2019-2021 (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (final vote with the presence of the quorum)]] [[Wednesday, January 9 h. 9,30-20 - Legal drawings no. 257 and 702 - Ratification of the Lighthouse Convention on Cultural Heritage and other ratifications of international agreements defined by the Foreign Affairs Committee - Documents defined by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities - Drawing of Law No 897 and related - Videosurveillance (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission)]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the related draft law No 897 (Videosurveillance) will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. The days of Tuesday 8 and Thursday 10 January are dedicated to the work of the Commissions. [[Tuesday, January 15 h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of Law No. 989 - Decree-Law No. 135, Simplifications (final vote by January 16, 2019) (expires on February 12, 2019) - Possible follow-up of unfinished topics - Inspection union - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 17, at 15) Wednesday 16 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 17 " h. 9,30-20]] Amendments to bill No 989 (Decree-Law No 135, Simplifications) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Thursday 10 January 2019. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 989 (Decree-Law No 135, Simplifications) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Majority Rapporteurs 45' Minority Rapporteurs 45' Government 30' Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 42' FI-BP 1 h. 10' L-SP-PSd'Az 1 h. 8' PD 1 h. 4' FdI 42' Mixed 38' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 35' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u115	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, it is not out of disrespect for you, for the Presidency or for the House that I have not invited the senators of my Group to be quieter. What the government is doing is a filthy thing towards the Italian people. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] Not to us. The fact of mocking Parliament for twenty days is not a scar of our face; it is a scar to their voters, to their representatives. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Shame! BERNINI (FI-BP). She's their political leader. You have just read the political failure of this Government, which is unable to produce a large amendment, not for technical reasons, but for political reasons, because it does not succeed. Government representatives, please tell us what you're trying to hide from the Italians. What are you hiding from the Italians? [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups. Comments from the PD Group]] What's the matter? What have you become? [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] What political agreements have you made to the maximum downside among yourselves, in the hands of the Italians? [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] What have you sold out, ladies and gentlemen, that you are not capable of, do you not have the courage to tell your constituents? Have you sold yourself Italian pensioners? [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] Do you intend to pay citizenship income from the pensions of those who have more than 1,300 euros net per month? [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] You're from the FI-BP group. Thieves! Shame! BERNINI (FI-BP). Are you trying, at this time, to convince pensioners who have more than 1,300 euros net per month that they are golden pensioners? [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] Is that why you're making us wait? Are you trying to convince Italians that a citizenship income of 83 euros per month is such and which to that of 780 euros? [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] Is that why you're making us wait? Mr President, you must excuse me, but in the face of this failure, in the face of this shameful manifestation of inability and amateurism by a government that must decide the fate of all of us, we cannot remain silent. We can only try to do our part. We've tried so far, but we've never had a chance to talk. You have humiliated and gagged Parliament, you have humiliated and gagged the Italian people. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] The Italians who are watching you, the pensioners who will be impoverished by your Government, all the Italians to whom you will increase taxes and lower incentives, will thank you all. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] Friends, colleagues, government gentlemen, we have only one proposal to make: try not to make any more ridiculous [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] , pretending tomorrow to submit first at 8 a.m., then at 11 a.m., then at 12 p.m., then at 2 p.m., a maxi amendment that, because of your inability, you just can't give birth. Evidently you have to deal with Europe; this Government of the real tough, who has come to Europe to break her kidneys and has returned home with his tail between his legs, after having tried to make pure Italian deficit, guaranteed by his sovereign friends, now obviously has some problem with Europe, as well as with the General Accounting of the State. Colleagues, friends of the majority, do not make Italians pay for this. Don't make him pay more than you've done so far. It is a cinepanettone that to the Italians will cost much more than the price of the ticket than what is being projected now in the Italian halls. [[Extended applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] More than 8 euros will cost the Italians this shameful cinepanettone! We therefore call for the House to reconvene on Sunday, in order to debate seriously, when the major amendment is tabled, first in the Commission and then in the House. In front of the Italians, colleagues of the Government and the majority, have the courage to show you. You've become the ones in the Budget Committee who denied streaming so you wouldn't be seen at work by the Italians [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Honesty! Honesty! You're from the FI-BP group. Buffoons! Buffoons! BERNINI (FI-BP). Enough, thank you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, let Senator Bernini finish. BERNINI (FI-BP). What have you become? Please have an active and active repentance: tomorrow, instead of going to your demonstration, you must all work to get this maxi amendment out. Put us in a position to work on it in the interest of the country and on Sunday, seriously, let's vote together: you will vote in favour and assume your responsibilities; we will vote against, but let's do something serious in the eyes of the country. You've done some pretty ridiculous things before. Now, colleagues, please stop! (Loud and prolonged [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u116	Colleagues, before I give the next senator the floor, I'd like to say something. Although I understand the difficulties of the Government, which were also in connection with the intercourse with Europe, I am obliged to invite the majority and the Government to have a more regular legislative path, not with this hiccup timing. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] Excuse me, colleagues. I don't want applause. A path respectful of the Senate Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u119	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I am pleased that you have taken a clear position. I was puzzled earlier when he told us he didn't understand what he was protesting about. It seems clear to me what you are protesting about: first of all about attitude. In delicate and important hours like these, what did all the ministers have to do? [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] Did everyone have a beard in the House in Barberia? Or were they buying gifts? The three Subsecretaries present are certainly adequate and authoritative, but I believe that the moment is serious for democracy and for the Republic. But they didn't have time for the Senate. Do you know why, Mr. President? President Conte explains this to us, with an agency that has left these minutes, to which perhaps you should reply. Unfortunately, the President-in-Office of the Council does not control Parliament. This has been said, justifying the fact that we have not yet voted. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] Mr Verducci (PD). Shame! Mr Marcucci (PD). He didn't have the courage to say that the government's shame is that he hasn't been able to bring us a maneuver yet. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] We have no information on the maneuver that we will be obliged to vote on. It is a shame and President Conte adds to this the mockery, Mr President, that you can no longer allow, because the right of hospitality is between gentlemen and not between people who offend the institutions. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] Mr President, it is not acceptable for President Conte to come to the Senate tomorrow to make fun of us in his press conference. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups. Comments of Senator Malpezzi]] You can't let that happen! Mr Verducci (PD). Humiliate Parliament! Shame on you! Humiliate Parliament and the Italian people! Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, if this were to happen, if President Conte were to be in the Koch Chamber tomorrow to brag about the maneuver that has not yet been presented, he would find us waiting for him. [[Applause from the PD Group]] If you remember, Mr President, you will find us waiting for him. Don't you dare tomorrow, after humiliating the Senate, to present yourself, not to allow yourself! [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] It is time to stop humiliating the institutions. It's time to get this over with. We entered, Mr President, at the meeting of the group leaders with Mr Fraccaro's proposal - in the meantime he too went shopping because, as we all know, we are close to Christmas and could not be present with us in this House - which assured us that the maneuver would not be presented at 4 p.m., as planned today, but at 8 a.m. tomorrow morning. We had some doubts and then he assured us that it would be presented tomorrow morning at 9.30 a.m. In the face of our perplexity, perceived by our words and expressions, he said that perhaps he would present it at 12 o'clock. Then, when we asked to propose the calendar, it appeared at 2:00. But they want to vote tomorrow. Basically, they took two months to humiliate Parliament and the country; they took two months to go to Brussels to get the maneuver dictated. In elementary schools, however, when you do the exercise of dictation, there are those who say and there are those who write. The problem is that those who say and those who write must understand and those who write must know what they write. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Evidently our government, which has been dictated by the maneuver, does not understand or can not write, so much so that we have been waiting for days. So, Mr President, they have made fun of us and continue to make fun of us, but they have the claim that they respect their time, they have the claim to make sure that Parliament and the Senate vote on a maneuver without being able to understand, deepen and read it. We can't let that happen. This timetable is yet another mockery, yet another violence against democracy. It is the violence that you do constantly and without shame. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] I do not go into the substance of the maneuver; we will do so when we discuss it. Wrong, dangerous and dramatic maneuver for our country. I do not go inside the maneuver; I go within, as I often do in this House, to defend this institution and Parliament, against the Movimento 5 Stars and the League that constantly want to humiliate it and make it servile. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You want a servile Senate to obey President Count. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] Shut up! MARGIOTTA (PD). President, have him sit in his seat! [[Comments of Senator Airola]] Mr Marcucci (PD). Shut up. You want a servile senate. You have to apologize. I see that not always... [[Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u120	That's not gonna work. Senator Marcucci, continue your intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u121	Mr Marcucci (PD). The attitude of the Movimento 5 Stars and the League, the attitude of the Government, the violence that they did to us even recently, are heavy. Mr President, we ask you and the whole Presidency, we ask the authoritative colleagues to say enough about this. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr Verducci (PD). Stop! MALPEZZI (PD). Stop! Mr Marcucci (PD). We're asking you, please! We need your help to defend the institutions. You cannot accept this calendar. We have proposed something simple from the beginning. Whatever time the maneuver was presented, we were given time to read it and deepen it. Does that seem too much to you, Mr. President? Does it seem too much for the Senate to have time to vote with knowledge of cause, science and conscience? It's not too much, it's the least. And today we are not guaranteed even the least. It is a shameful attack on democracy by political forces working against Italy and against democracy. We shall vote no on the calendar. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Giro. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u124	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we have, as you know, attended a meeting of the group leaders once again quite special. We've seen a lot of them over the years, but I have to say, we're getting past the unimaginable. I want to remind you how we have to read the maneuver. (Senator De Petris shows a newspaper.) "No increase in VAT; fact" "Minimum pensions increase; fact" But who did you take us for? For those who are just putting likes on Facebook and reading these things? Is that why you took the Senate of the Republic? When we were at the meeting of the Leaders, the news came from the Ansa that there will be the Conte press conference tomorrow at 11 a.m. We come to explain what else? The humiliation has no limit anymore. We're forced to see one after the other. Look, don't come and say we've seen this before. We have seen so many trusts; we have seen so many delays of maximamenti, but we have been hostage for days and days. The Budget Committee has been held hostage for more than two weeks with a President who did not know what was going on and no one who was able to keep something he had promised. They had said the times, but nothing: no time was respected. We had asked, even after Conte's statements and disclosure, to have - because it was absolutely fundamental according to our procedures - the hearing of the Parliamentary Budget Office. We did everything with a sense of responsibility. Mr Fraccaro - you are aware, Mr President - came to us at 8 a.m. to propose a maximum amendment. With the debate, as you can see, we arrived at 2 p.m. I think, as I said at the Conference of Leaders, that each of us assumes our responsibilities. The majority and the government must assume their responsibilities: they said now at 14, but I am afraid it will be another mockery. As far as we are concerned, we must have all the time; the Commission must take a good look at everything if this major amendment is ever to be tabled. Therefore, as far as we are concerned, there is nothing there: we go to the extreme, because we must have the opportunity to see what is in this maneuver. I'll add something else. We asked the government another question. We have asked ourselves to explain to us what these technical reasons are delaying the submission of the maxi amendment. We all know they're not technical reasons. Maybe there's some kind of cover problem? Are you guys still fighting about this? [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, PD and FI-PD Groups.]] That's 100... done? Citizenship income: done? These problems are still standing. Our patience, as you know, Mr President, is endless; especially the patience of this Group which I have the honour to chair. It was an endless patience and an endless sense of responsibility. You're risking bringing the country to the provisional exercise. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, PD and FI-PD Groups]] : This is the Government of Change! Therefore, as far as we are concerned, we must allow all the hours that will take for the examination of the maxi amendment, if it ever arrives at 2 p.m. in the Commission; and therefore, as far as we are concerned, we must continue to do so all the time. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, PD and FI-PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u127	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, I have to say this and I say it with transport: we are in a Kafkian situation. On the contrary, I would like to uncomfortable a quotation: "Waiting for Godot." Everyone knows it, it's Beckett's theatrical work that is associated with the drama of the absurd and the theater of the absurd and that creates a situation of waiting. We are in this situation, we are in a situation of waiting, because, as is well known to this House and also outside, we are waiting for a large amendment which is too late to arrive; we are here to refer it back. The maxi amendment is not there today, it did not arrive for the 16 hours set; the calendar has skipped. At the very long Conference of the Leaders, where we did and undo the calendar, trying to find the best solution for the country (not for our holidays), in the end we have to say that we have been replicated and explained, in a laconic way, that technical issues postponed the arrival of the maxi amendment. There are always technical issues, we know that. There are always technical issues, but there are also - we have to say, you have to say, you have to admit - political issues. I would also like to say that, if we refer this matter back, we are going to have a temporary situation, because there is a risk that we will not approve the maneuver until the maxi amendment arrives. Why is this a political matter? Because obviously we need to harmonize the slogans and the things shouted in the squares with the covers that are not there; but above all because there is to harmonize the European retouching. That is the point and the political crux. The technicians must now find a square with the Brussels retouching, because we do not hide that this maneuver knows more Brussels than this Italian Parliament; we do not know this maneuver. That's the point. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups and Senator Errani]] And then the technicians will have to do all night long, there is no doubt, because this majority moves like a two-faced corpaccione; it is difficult for you to find a square. The maneuver of the people does not take off, but in return the people look at you and remain unbelieving compared to what is happening. We are also convinced that, out of a sense of responsibility, we are fighting in this House as we fought in the Commission, where for two weeks - whoever has been aware of this - we have delayed the delay. We were in that Commission because of our sense of responsibility and we are present in this House, because for us it comes first of all the country. We want to give the country a maneuver, a right maneuver. These postponements and this pantomime you are making us get used to - but we do not want to get used to it and we will not get used to it - are the plastic metaphor, aesthetic and political contradictions of a government, of that corpaccione that I said before, who insists on being together staggering between a sovereignism that cannot express and a globalism on the other side that remains suffocated. You are a sum of contradictions and these contradictions in the financial maneuver explode all, because the knots come to the comb. So, you see, if you don't make it, and if you don't have the time, don't take it and don't give us an appointment tomorrow. Take an extra day; we are willing to work on Sunday and Monday, for the good of this country. If you do not succeed, say it and do not postpone it, mocking Parliament, because this is another issue: the lack of respect for the institutions and Parliament, really trampling its dignity. We are here for a sense of responsibility - I repeat - but we would like to see linearity, coherence and ability to engrave and produce. Produce this maneuver, look for times and ways. We are opposed to this calendar, because it is clear that there is a delay in times that you are unable to govern (subline governing) and you are not able to control. And it is not the fault of the technicians, but of your political contradictions. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u130	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, first of all I would like to point out that President Marcucci has described a situation which I have not yet seen in the Conference of Leaders, because it does not seem to me that there is a bad and bad attitude on the part of the Presidents of the majority groups. Mr Marcucci (PD). But this is the result. Patuanelli (M5S). I believe that the President is a witness to the fact that the climate in the Conference of Leaders is always constructive and serene by the majority forces and even more by the opposition forces. Then in these days I have heard many things, many accusations, I have heard of unicum in the history of the Republic; then a few hours ago I took some time, because I was eager to assess if we were really doing things that never happened; I took hours because I thought I had to go back at least to the sixties, instead I stopped in 2016, when the maneuver at second reading in the Senate was not the subject of any vote in the Commission. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the PD group.]] Zero votes in the Commission and I am talking about two years ago, not twenty-four or forty-eight. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] CALIENDO (FI-BP). Second reading. [[Protests from the FI-BP Group.]] Giro (FI-BP). Buffoon! Patuanelli (M5S). After that I went back a few years and I saw what happened in 2014, when, after hours of referrals, confidence was placed in this House at 7 p.m., the maneuver was voted at 5 a.m. and the Conference of Leaders was convened at 7 a.m. to schedule Italicum and this happened four years ago, not forty-four years ago! [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] FARAONE (PD). You took care of the government desks! Patuanelli (M5S). I am fully aware that there is a need for this House to analyse the maneuver, I am perfectly aware that there is a complex situation linked to the fact that just Wednesday Europe has dissolved its reservations about a possible infringement procedure, which we have managed to avoid by keeping the accounts together, so the budgetary needs with the social needs of this country, which we have managed to do and which we are preparing to vote in this House. [[Protests from the PD Group. Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] I've heard of filthy, Caporetto. The government's budget law of change is not a Caporetto, it will be a great political victory for this majority that has no political problems and that has brought and brings to this House the real change of the country. [[Protests from FI-BP and PD groups. Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u133	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on behalf of the League Group we take all the responsibilities, as we have rightly been asked by the minorities, and we apologize for the delay. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] It is certainly due, and in our view justified, to the European negotiations, which ended just a few days ago. There is therefore a reason of this kind, but above all dictated by another reason, that this is the first time, perhaps not in history (at least I hope it is not so) but in recent years, that the economic maneuver writes it by the Italian Government and therefore it takes more time [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups, whose senators stand up]] compared to the copy and paste of the Brussels fax that we have been used to in recent years. This is the truth: it takes time and Accounting was not used to it. That's why! [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u134	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u135	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u137	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, I am speaking to announce the behaviour of our Group in relation to the vote on the alternative proposals that have been put forward in relation to the timetable voted by a majority by the Conference of Leaders. We repeat what we have said: what you have read is the political failure of this Government, the demonstration of the inability to bring the maxi amendment to the Chamber. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups. Protests from the M5S Group. Senator Castaldi's comments.]] We consider - I repeat - shameful and offensive... [[Comments from M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups]] I dedicate it to you. We consider it shameful, offensive and scornful to the Italians to continue to postpone the moment when this Senate, representative of all Italians, will be able to read a maneuver that announces tears and blood, against pensioners, young people and the South. [[Comments from M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups]] For this reason, we will subtract from the vote. Many of my fellow senators - I understand them - have asked me to leave the Chamber, but we have... VOICE FROM THE L-SP-PSD'AZ GROUP. Merry Christmas! BERNINI (FI-BP). Merry Christmas to you too, I see that the cinepanettone has infected you. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if we wait for your time, perhaps Christmas will be spent together. We'll do it here. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Comments from M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups.]] This is the maneuver of the real tough, so this is Maciste's debate, the real tough ones. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Fedeli.]] I was saying that we will not leave the Chamber, but we will withdraw from the vote by turning our backs, all standing together, on this Government and not on the presidency of the Senate, not on you, Mr President, to whom we owe the utmost respect. We will turn our backs on this government that gagged the Senate of the Republic. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u138	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal to amend the timetable...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u139	[[The Senators of the FI-BP Group turn their backs on each other. Senator Marcucci points out that he wants to intervene.]] Wait a minute. We cannot show our backs to the Presidency. Colleagues, your behavior is not respectful. Please turn around. [[The Senators of the FI-BP Group adapt to the President's call.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u140	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u142	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, we will vote in favour of the proposal to have the time to deepen and know the maneuver, provided that the maxi amendment arrives sooner or later. The explanation of vote is, however, a gracious opportunity to tell some colleagues - particularly the leaders of the League and the Movimento 5 Stars - that the precedents are very different. It has never - I emphasize, never - happened that the Senate of the Republic did not see the maneuver that was to vote until the very day of the vote. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] You can tell the lies to the Italians (in fact, on this I must give you note that you are very good at it), but, unfortunately, the lies have short legs. There have been votes of confidence in a certain way, but it has never happened that no one - not even the majority senators - knew the contours, the context and the subject to be voted on in the draft budget law. This situation is regrettable, very serious and without any precedent and we cannot accept it at all. Mr President, I would like you to answer us on the matter of President Conte's press conference. We want to know if, while the Senate of the Republic in these hours is in fact threatened by the President of the Council and humiliated by the Government, President Conte has the courage to come tomorrow to the Senate Koch Room for the planned press conference of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Gasparri (FI-BP). He better not come! Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, this is an important issue. We ask you to pay attention to this matter, as it is the dignity of the Senate. Those who humiliate and offend the Senate of the Republic cannot have hospitality here and we will take care of it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u143	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u145	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I certainly do not lack experience; I have seen many occasions of conflict in the past. For God's sake, there have been dramatic ones, certainly not so amateuristic, but there have been many in the past. What surprised me - and after I tell you how we will vote - is the pride with which the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group has claimed that we are in the same condition as the last votes in the budget. Wasn't it the government of change? [[Applause from the FdI groups, FI-BP]] To feel the same situation as before - I say it with respect - is the grave of that change that you promised, provided that the similarity is true, and instead the situation is not different and worse. Mr Verducci (PD). No similarities. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Even if that were true, Mr President, we spent more than two hours at the Conference of the Leaders trying to find an agreed solution and in the end all the oppositions - basically the Mixed Group, being such, had a mixed position - were agreed on a line. Without prejudice to the fact that we do not blame Minister Fraccaro nor the leaders, who could repeat what De Gasperi said - " (...) Everything, except your personal courtesy, is against me, having certainly been courteous - we tried to say that, out of respect for the Senate and the institutions, since you were not able to give us a true, sincere, credible time, of the moment when you would have submitted the maxi amendment, we would have granted you one more day, so that we could also study the measure. We have therefore proposed to start on Sunday morning and to devote tomorrow's day to the work of the Commission in order to study the major amendment. Well, it has not been understood why, after meeting - probably to shorten the time of the dispute, I imagine - they decided to make us do a tour de force tomorrow without giving us the time to examine the maxi amendment, not even marginally. For pity's sake, I am not surprised, and the majority groups will not be surprised if we vote against this programme. We are doing this without hesitation, ladies and gentlemen; we are neither screaming nor insulting. We are simply saying that for a patriotic opposition, such as what we have tried to do now, it is hard to continue to be patriotic in front of a patriotic government that really has nothing. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u146	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u148	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I hope... Mr President, look at me, because I am addressing you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm sorry. Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). I hope that, out of respect for this House, you will ask the representatives of the Government to take the floor and explain why we are not in a position to proceed. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU, PD, FI-BP and FdI Groups]] I would point out that representatives of the Government, in the Budget Committee, had said that the amendment was ready and that only the letter from the European Commission was expected. That's what you told us. This was also said by a Undersecretary at the Conference of the Leaders. For a matter of respect for this House, for which you, President, are the guarantor, it is right - friends of the Government - that you explain to this House why we are still in these conditions. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, PD and FI-BP Groups.]] Why do we have to read in the press what's inside the maneuver or not? This institution knows nothing true or credible. Let him take the floor; ask the government to give answers; ask President Conte to find another seat, because it is not a place for him at this time, out of respect for the institutions. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, as far as we are concerned, it is the government's responsibility: does the government say that it is ready to table an amendment at 8 a.m. tomorrow morning? We are there, no postponement for us, take responsibility for the government. The reason we're here is not the markets, it's not the bankers, it's not the spread, it's the fact that you have problems. At least have the courage to say so in order to respect the establishment and work of the budget. We therefore do not vote to meet on Sunday. We want to move forward, but we ask, Mr President, to have the time and the way to deepen the maxi nal amendment. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] You're from the FI-BP group. Home! Home! Home!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u149	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u150	What are you talking about, Senator Schifani? SCHIFANI (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to make a very brief excursus of the parliamentary procedures of the past on the imposition of confidence on the maxims to the financial. I have been here for many years, I have performed the functions of Parent Company and also of President of the Senate and I remind myself that in the Chamber even the President of that Assembly authorized the imposition of the question of trust... LUPO (M5S). What are you intervening on? TAVERNA (M5S). Are you intervening on the order of business? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Schifani, the Forza Italia Group has already spoken in an explanation of vote and, therefore, I ask you what you need to do now. SCHIFANI (FI-BP). The order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The explanation of vote has already been made. SCHIFANI (FI-BP). This is not an explanation of vote, Mr President, but a statement on the order of business, on what will happen.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u151	[[Protests from the M5S Group.]] The House of Deputies has in the past been authorized by the Presidency to apply the question of trust to the major amendments which the Commission has hesitated to make. The presidencies of the House of the past have never authorized governments to put their trust in maxims not identical to those hesitated by the Budget Committee. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] In the past, there has been greater flexibility in the Senate, in the sense that the question of confidence on the maxi amendment was allowed to be applied to the extent that the rules contained in the maxi amendment were at least passed by the Budget Commission, in the sense that they had been deposited and had at least constituted a time of debate. We're in front of each other... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u152	Senator Schifani, the Group has already spoken. Don't put me in trouble. You know the rules better than I do, so I don't have to explain them to you.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u153	SCHIFANI (FI-BP). Other groups have also spoken several times. Let me finish. You will find yourself, Mr President, faced with a large amendment which will contain arguments which have not at all passed by the Budget Commission and I believe that this is worrying and dangerous. I call on my colleagues in the majority to take note of the fact that they do not know the text to date either, because Europe is writing it, not Italy. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] [[Protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u154	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the agenda of the Assembly to move the vote to 26 December, tabled by Senator Marcucci. [[The Senators of the FI-BP Group turn their backs on each other and display signs bearing the words: "Employment Hall".]] Senators, please, quaestors remove all signs. The fact of showing the Presidency back, despite the specification of Senator Bernini, I believe that this is an inappropriate attitude to this House. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Thank you if you turn around. [[The Senators of the FI-BP Group adapt to the President's call.]] It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the agenda of the Assembly to move the vote to Sunday, tabled by Senators Bernini and La Russa. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to have more time to discuss the maxi amendment tabled by Senator De Petris. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u155	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u157	Mr Marcucci (PD). President. - The next item is the report (Doc. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u158	I'm asking to speak for myself. [[Comments from M5S Groups]] and L-SP-PSd'Az. [[Protests from Senators Marcucci and Laus.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u159	Senator Bellanova has the right to speak personally.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u160	If anyone wants to get out of the Chamber, do it. Let's give Senator Bellanova the floor. If anyone doesn't want to listen, they can go out.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u161	You have the floor, Senator Bellanova.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u162	BELLANOVA (PD). Mr President, on Wednesday, when the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Conte, came to this House to present a maneuver, as demonstrated by today's debate, I asked for seriousness and you, the first woman President of this important institution, told me to shut up. President Conte said today that he does not control Parliament. While I was asking for seriousness, you, the first woman president of this important institution, told me that I always disturb. Now, Mr. President... [[Brusio]] AIROLA (M5S). It's true! Mr Marcucci (PD). Tell him to shut up! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, you can go out, don't bother. BELLANOVA (PD). Now, the level of democracy is also given by language. What you used against me is a machist language, belonging to an undemocratic culture. I would like to remind you, Mr President, that I am elected by the people, of a minority but always elected by the people. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And you, Mr President, not only for our Rules of Procedure but also for the Constitution which has also been won by those who, like me, come from a deeply democratic political culture and respect for minorities, must guarantee in this House the rights not only of the Government but also of those who sit momentarily on the benches of the opposition. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Then I would like to ask you the following: please inform the Count, Mr President, that Parliament is free. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] And if you have time, get some patience. And you also remember that in this House, the army functions which are given by the Constitution, so you must put me in a position to respect the mandate. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u163	Senator Bellanova, I would like to remind you that I was also elected by the Italian people. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] You point out that I am the first woman President of the Senate, which is a fact; but the point of order because you are disturbing while speaking the President-in-Office of the Council, I think is a matter of gender issues. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I would therefore urge you, precisely because of the democratic respect that you are calling for and calling on you several times, to respect others as well. President Conte was explaining and you can or can't share what he said; then there would be the debate during which you could easily express your thoughts. The fact that the President-in-Office of the Council was continuously interrupting his speech with the European Union did not seem to me to be respectful at all. As I have filmed her, I always take back all those who interrupt the manifestations of thought, even if not shared. This is respect for the parliamentary dialectic, which you constantly recall but which disregards the facts. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u164	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u166	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, I am speaking only to make an announcement on the order of business concerning the senators of the Forza Italia-Berlusconi Parliamentary Group, President. We have learned in the House of President Conte's presence in the Senate tomorrow. We, therefore, will host President Conte who will presumably tell the press conference a maneuver that we do not yet know the content of. We will be here to welcome President Conte, of course, kindly - as is our characteristic and as is our custom - and to ask him for a statement on a content which, unfortunately, Parliament does not yet know. Therefore, we ask him to tell us, at home, before the Italians at the press conference, what has been revealed by Europe to the Government, but which the Government has not yet revealed to Parliament. We'll be there, we'll be there, we'll wait for him, and we'll wait for his account. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u167	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-76.ana.u168	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Saturday, December 22, at 2 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.27 p.m.
