ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. The first question will be asked 3-00183 on the reduction of the teaching hours of the first instrument in music schools. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u4	Senator Russo - as you mentioned - the recent decision of the TAR Lazio n. 2915 of 2018, confirmed by the Council of State with judgment n. 3409 of 2018, has pronounced itself for the annulment of the note of 15 May 2017, containing indications to the regional school offices on the staff of the teaching staff, in particular on the distribution of the hours of teaching of musical instrument. In this regard, it should be noted that the note subject of appeal for the school year 2017/2018, for the contested party, has explained what has already been defined in the relevant interministerial decree relating to the teaching staff, provided with the concert of the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Ministry of Public Administration, in line with the content of the technical report to Regulation No 89 of 2010, in which it is reiterated that the teaching (execution and interpretation) is given by devoting the teaching time to two or three pupils, for an average of 2,5 pupils per hour teacher. Moreover, the judgments cited above have intervened for such discipline (class of competition A-55 former decree of the President of the Republic n. 19 of 2016), considering that the requirement of containment of the expenditure, as provided for in Article 64 of Decree-Law n. 112 of 2008, converted with modifications from the law 6 August 2008, n. 133, can not affect the respect of the pre-defined time frames, as indicated in Annex E to the aforementioned regulation. Therefore, according to this case law, for the lessons of the first musical instrument, pupils should be guaranteed a further frontal hour for technical-practical learning in the first two years. It should also be considered that the current scheme of interministerial decree for the school year 2018-2019 follows the previous one of the school year 2017-2018, as it has been elaborated and transmitted for the planned concert of the MEF before the most recent court rulings, with the consequence of having already deployed its effects on the connected and complex procedures of mobility and entry into role. In the light of the above, the solution proposed by the Senator to recalculate the new staff and modify the mobility rankings is not feasible for the school year 2018-2019, as the effects of such intervention would be incompatible with the regular continuation of the same school year. In conclusion, I would like to make it clear that this Ministry has the concrete intention to overcome the critical issues highlighted by the Senator with the greatest speed and above all with a solution that is really effective, this also taking into account the opinion of the General Commission of the State received in the first days of July, in which it is suggested to take due account of the principle of law set out in the judgments on the occasion of the adoption of the next measures. This can only happen through weighted and adequate interventions also of a normative nature, which will allow the updating of the ordinamental time frames of the music schools. This action will actually be in line with the case law of merit and at the same time will involve an effective extension of the staff for the school year 2019-2020, compatible in any case with the financial resources available.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u7	RUSSO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Undersecretary, Mr Giuliano, and to say that I am satisfied with the answer given. I would point out that this issue has been dealt with by the previous Government, which, with a simple ministerial note, had illegitimately disenforced the law, as already stated several times by the judgments. I can therefore only welcome the news that it has been decided to reverse the course, to protect the right to study and to comply with the judgments. However, I hope that this report can be implemented as soon as possible in order to guarantee not only the right to study of our children, but also the quality of the study itself in a very competitive international context, thus safeguarding a valuable asset of our culture, which is music.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u8	The following is Question 3-00003 on the extension of the state road 372 Telesina and its system of movement. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as ANAS reports, the final draft of the highway 372 Telesina concerning the adjustment to four lanes from zero kilometer to 60-900 kilometer is divided into a first lot from km 37, San Salvatore Telesino junction, to km 60-900, junction of Benevento (approved by its board of directors on 20 November 2017), and a second lot, from km 0-A1 Caianello to km 37, junction of San Salvatore Telesino, for which a specific competition is being launched for the drafting of the final and executive project. For the first batch, after the approval of the board of directors, the company started the procedure for location and declaration of public utility, with the transmission of the related project acts to all the entities concerned. On 15 December 2017, the Higher Council of Public Works convened the Municipalities and the same ANAS for the presentation of the project. Following the opinion of the said Council, the final draft, together with the opinions of the bodies concerned, was submitted to CIPE by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport for approval, for the simultaneous attachment of the pre-ordered constraint to the expropriation and for the declaration of public utility. At its meeting on 28 February 2018, CIPE approved the final draft of the intervention. In the more part of the registration at the Court of Auditors and the publication in the Official Journal of the CIPE Resolution, the preparatory activities to the drafting of the executive project for the contract of the works have been started, which is expected to be completed by December 2018 with the publication of the invitation to tender. In response to the second, third and fourth questions, ANAS informs that, in order to eliminate the disruptions caused by the exceptional weather conditions of February last, provisional restorations were carried out along the state road in question. In addition, ANAS has planned a further intervention, financed and already contracted under the framework agreement, aimed at repairing the road pavement, in occasional stretches, for a total investment of about € 2.7 million; then the speed limits in the sections affected by the intervention will be reviewed. As far as road signs are concerned, the existing road signs meet the requirements of the route and the existing requirements of the road code, in accordance with the principles of clarity and essentiality which the road signs must ensure. As regards the possibility of banning the transit of heavy goods vehicles, I would remind you that the highway 372 is an extra-urban road and, therefore, also suitable for the transit of these vehicles. In any case, I would remind you that by decree of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport the bans of movement outside the inhabited centers are regulated annually for particular categories of vehicles and road transport, in a few days and hours, at days when more traffic is expected.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u12	Coal (FI-BP). Mr President, it seems to me that, once again, the Secretary-General has merely listed what other administrations have done (CIPE and ANAS) and has not really said what commitments this Government will take on this path. As usual, then, the words from the Government on the question, which I have signed with my colleagues Mr Lonardo and Mr De Siano, on the serious conditions under which the state road 372 Telesina is located, are unsatisfactory. I would like to point out that the seventy kilometers in question represent the main connection to and from Rome to the province of Benevento and the territory of Caserta and also connect Benevento to Caianello and, therefore, to the A1 motorway. This is, therefore, a very important feature. The Telesina has a stretch of road to only two lanes that pours in conditions not adapted to the type of intense traffic, also of heavy vehicles, that daily carry on the state road. The road covering is still disconnected to date, despite the fact that the ANAS had called, in not too far 2016, a call for tenders for the restoration of the road pavement and the horizontal signs. Hundreds of thousands of citizens have been waiting for years for the plan to double the lanes to be finalised, but once again it seems that they will have to resign to promises and certainly to a long time. The last political commitment on this infrastructure dates back to 2009, when the Berlusconi Government, through the allocation of 1.2 billion euros from the CIPE, realized a series of important infrastructures in the Campania Region with the launch of the national plan of strategic infrastructures for the three years 2009-2011; a financial commitment that allowed then the realization of fundamental works for the regional development, starting from the doubling of the Benevento-Caianello highway, until the connection between the ring road of Naples to the road network and the service that leads to the Amalfi coast. We had asked the government to know what measures it intended to take to improve and intensify road signs in some non-existent or inappropriate sections; we had overcome that this question could reactivate the sleeping ministry. The infrastructure serves the country and above all has an extreme need for this kind of investment in the South, where the years of the crisis have caused a further loss of jobs of 300,000 units. Secure roads, railways, schools, research, universities, reclamations, fight against hydrological failure, clean energy are the investments that Italy expects and deserves. Today we note that our questions will remain unheard of and that no appropriate measures will be taken. Once again we note that this Government does not protect the safety of motorists. Speaking on behalf of those citizens who travel dozens of miles every day, I can safely state that at this moment they are dismayed by the superficiality that the Commission is demonstrating. It seems that on the infrastructures this Government is running wild in the dark: it does not have the strength to put in place a serious plan of action in the matter of infrastructures, maintenance and above all on the safety of our country. Obviously, in the spirit of Homeland, I lay a pitiful veil on how the Government is managing the emergency in Genoa, with an exhausting ballet of decrees, commissioner appointments, ministerial boutades that have produced so far only one result: almost two months of chatter. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u13	Question 3-00122 on the National Labour Inspectorate follows. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u14	Mr President, in order to give a complete answer to the question put by the honourable Member, it is necessary to recall the ratio underlying Legislative Decree No 149 of 2015, through which it was decided to set up a single labour inspection agency, called the National Labour Inspectorate, which complements the inspection services of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policies, the INPS and the INAIL. It should be recalled here that the establishment of the Agency did not involve the transfer in its roles of INPS and INAIL inspection officers, who remained formally, by express provision of the same decree of the inspectorate, under the supervision of their respective institutions. Nevertheless, the occupational classification of the labour inspector is intended to become unique, given that the new recruitment of labour inspectors can be carried out, according to the regulatory arrangements, by the National Labour Inspectorate. Having said that, the fact that the INPS and INAIL staff are not engaged in the inspection activity does not correspond to the truth, with what would result - in the opinion of the questioner - in terms of the failure to contrast to intolerable phenomena such as that of the caporalate which, on the contrary, represents a central theme for the Ministry that I represent today. On the contrary, it is necessary to point out that, precisely in view of the diversity of organizational and managerial structures of inspection staff of different origins, the National Labour Inspectorate has set up a series of activities aimed at standardising and enhancing the skills of all inspection staff. An intensive training activity was then carried out for INPS and INAIL staff dealing with the functions of judicial police, the exercise of the power to suspend entrepreneurial activity and the use of the warning as an instrument to protect employees' claims from work. On the other hand, for inspection staff already employed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, specific training courses in the field of social security and insurance have been started and defined, which, moreover, did not entail additional burdens for the administration, having been organised using the structures and staff of the inspectorate and the institutions. This activity has therefore ensured greater uniformity of skills which, in the future, will allow for greater fungibility of the supervisory staff and, therefore, to be able to employ more effectively all inspection staff towards objectives which, from time to time, constitute a priority of intervention, as already happens in relation to the phenomenon of the caporalate. The warning given by the honourable Member is that a real planning of the inspection activity on the territory can do without the territorial planning committees, which are even unnecessary. The belief that supports the government's action is to implement all those measures aimed at empowering the largest number of institutionally involved in labour supervision and social legislation. In this context, it should be recalled that, without prejudice to the identification of the lines of intervention by the Central Committee for the Coordination of Supervision, chaired by the Minister for Labour, the establishment of regional coordination committees has allowed, on almost all national territory, to proceed to a selection of the most significant supervisory objectives, in relation to the most relevant territorial phenomena, allowing to avoid overlapping of inspection interventions, even if sporadic. It is precisely in the context of this planning at the territorial level that special surveillance projects have been shared, such as the one to combat the caporalate, put to the attention of today's questioner. As far as the supervisory activity in the field of headquartered mainly, but not exclusively in the agricultural sector, I would like to point out that the same has been implemented and urged on several occasions and that there are currently numerous inspection visits that involve the movement of inspection personnel from all over Italy to those territorial areas where the phenomenon is most concentrated. Effective repressive action requires, in the first place, the availability of a reasonable number of inspection personnel who, where possible, must be accompanied by military personnel. In this sense I want to represent that the inspectorate makes use of the fundamental support of both the Guardia di Finanza and the Arma dei Carabinieri. The latter, in fact, in addition to operating within each territorial labour inspectorate, so-called Nuclei labor inspectorate (NIL), and within each interregional labour inspectorate, so-called Carabinieri Working Groups, were also concerned as they operate at the territorial stations and the Forestal. To conclude, in the light of what is represented in this Chamber today, I repeat the need to continue with a view to a specific joint action, involving, for their respective areas of competence, all levels of government, central and territorial, as well as civil and military personnel, as the only way that will allow to eradicate these hateful situations of exploitation and illicit mediation of labour related to phenomena of caporalate.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u17	CONZACTS (FI-BP). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, I am speaking on behalf of the proposer to say that we are partially satisfied with the answer given, in the sense that we welcome the work you are doing towards the figure of the sole inspector and towards the objective of fungibility of the figures present who have equal competence at national level. This does not mean that, at the level of subsidiarity, we see excessive proximity to the territory, we see damage to the principle of efficiency and effectiveness of the action and therefore, once again, we invite you to bear in mind our signal, avoiding unnecessary, costly and excessive nuclei of proximity to the territory that could be replaced by existing inspectorates.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u18	Question Time on the agenda is thus over. I suspend the session, which will resume at 3 p.m. with the question time. (The sitting was suspended at 9.58 a.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u19	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Regional Affairs and Self-Government and the Minister for Economic and Labour Development and Social Policy will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Ferrazzi has the right to explain the question 3-00250 on the implementation of the extraordinary programme of interventions for urban regeneration and the safety of the suburbs.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u20	Mr President, Minister, generally speaking, we do not know what to say about everything. We expect only one sentence from you today: We return the money that we have taken away from ordinary citizens; we return the money that we have taken away by vote in this House, too, from the thousand-pronged decree. The thing that makes it all even more paradoxical is that this happened the day after the meeting between the President of the Council of Ministers and the delegation of the ANCI, in which - it will be well known to you - the Premier had explicitly and formally undertaken to immediately introduce 1.6 billion euros - removed in the decree thousandprorogates - with immediate and subsequent acts of the Government and, therefore, decrees. The Premier himself, among other things, also quoted in what measure the refinancing would include: the security decree. Now there is no trace of this. Minister, we expect the government to have words of truth. I was just saying that, when people do not know what to say, they say everything and the government has said everything to hide this shameful cut of money from the suburbs, the most deprived citizens and the recovery of our cities. He said, for example, that the administrative surplus had been unblocked and that, therefore, this money would replace funding for the suburbs, but we know very well that this has nothing to do with it. You know that better than I do. The administrative surplus - as reiterated by a dual judgment of the Constitutional Court - represents the resources of the municipalities; instead, the ban on the outskirts is financed with State money. There has been talk of unconstitutionality, but you know very well that the decision of the Constitutional Court establishes a partial unconstitutionality for a third of the funding, and the judgment itself says that it can be healed - this falls within your direct competence - through the convening of the unified Conference with the Presidents of the Regions. It was enough to include the subject for 6 September or to discuss it on 20 September in the Conference you chaired and the partial unconstitutionality would be radically overtaken. Minister, we do not even want to imagine that there is someone in the government who trusts in oblivion and therefore in the fact that a little at a time we forget about this promised money. Even less do we want to imagine that there is someone in the government who imagines forms of selective financing Common by Municipality, because it would be even more serious. [[Recalls of the President]] Mr President, we expect the Minister not to say anything to the wind, not least because hundreds of mayors and especially the twenty million citizens who are entitled to this funding will listen to his response. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u21	Colleagues, I generally do not take the word off, but at the end of the three minutes, there being a live television and having to guarantee to everyone the possibility to take advantage of it, the word will be removed. The Minister for Regional Affairs and Self-Government, Senator Stefani, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u22	Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members for asking a question which offers an opportunity for some clarification on the issue of the so-called peripherial ban, on which, moreover, the competence of my Ministry has been - indeed - purely incidental. The decree-milleproroghe law deferred to 2020 the effectiveness of the conventions with 96 municipalities, provincial capital or metropolitan city, with regard to the extraordinary program of intervention for the redevelopment and safety of the suburbs. The positive effects on net borrowing and demand are destined to a special fund to be used to promote the investments of metropolitan cities, provinces and municipalities, to be achieved through the use of the administrative results of previous years. The primary effect of the provision is therefore a redistribution of resources among all entities that have produced administrative surpluses. Among them are also some of the 96 entities for which the effectiveness of existing conventions has been deferred. I must point out that this legislative amendment was introduced in this House by means of an own-initiative amendment with the support of all the groups. The situation of legal uncertainty has been determined - as you know - following the well-known judgment n. 74 of 2018 that declared illegitimate paragraph 140 of article 1 of the fiscal law for 2017, as it does not provide an understanding with the territorial authorities in relation to the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers concerning areas of expenditure falling within the areas of regional competence. It is not possible here to recall the problematic characteristics identified by the judgment in relation to the connotations of the fund referred to in Article 140. It is sufficient here to recall that the Court has done without prejudice to the ongoing expenditure proceedings, where otherwise a prejudice to the constitutional rights of persons can be determined. The Council of State, in its opinion of 7 June 2018, No 1529 then intervened, which stated that the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, to set aside the fund, of a regulatory nature remains legitimate and that the various sectoral plans will have to take account of the agreements with the regional level. In fact, there are not a few elements of uncertainty worthy of attention: the location and the moment of the understanding; the reconnaissance of the procedures relating to matters of regional competence; the reconnaissance of the procedures in progress; the monitoring of the interventions and the effective adequacy of the resources. Ultimately, the extension provided by Decree-Law No 91 of 2018 is intended to make order in a situation that has become critical: it is a postponement of the effectiveness of the conventions and certainly not a blockade. The possibility for institutions to proceed autonomously with regard to interventions for which there are also resources deriving from co-financing, i.e. to turn on forms of financial anticipation within the limits allowed. In any case, the Government, also due to the commitments made by the President of the Council, intends to take specific measures intended for the 2018 budget law to ensure, compatible with a more effective allocation of resources available, solutions suitable to the institutions' requests. Meanwhile, the Department of the General Accounting of the State adopted, just yesterday, a special circular to allow the immediate use for investment expenses of the leftovers. As regards the unified conference, I would point out that, as President, I had included, at the request of the Regions, ANCI and UPI, on the agenda of 27 September, the understanding on the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, but the Conference could not give an understanding on a measure already published in the Journal and which stems from a rule that the Constitutional Court has declared illegitimate in the part where it does not provide for the agreements. I would remind you that the Court's judgment did not even specify whether the agreement was necessary and therefore calls into question that assumption. During the Conference, the President of ANCI Decaro then declared that he was interrupting institutional relations with the Government - which I was very sorry about - and abandoned the Conference, preventing it from examining other measures of interest. I have tried to invite the President of the ANCI to reconsider this form of protest, which indeed also has blocking effects on other measures of interest of the Regions, Provinces and Municipalities themselves. The unified conference is an institution in which the various bodies of our Republic participate in the formation of acts, but unfortunately President Decaro wanted to continue in this way. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u23	I give the floor to Senator Collina to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u24	Mr President, I do not know what is to be applauded, since we have just heard the Minister say that these are purely incidental competences. So within the government, there's a barrel dump on a topic like this. Then he told us that the measure within which we can possibly recover the resources will be the budget law, which comes from the DEF, but in which we do not know what is written, because they still have to write it. These days they are telling us that we are commenting on the DEF without reading it; but if it has not yet been written, what are you accusing us of? I think this is a very paradoxical situation. Minister, I would like to show you the photos of our mayors, who, together with the citizens, find themselves in the places to be retrained and who in these days are doing demonstrations: we are talking about a path of confrontation with the communities that had led to decide in a participatory way where to invest resources that are not of the Municipalities but of the State. Unlocking the leftovers means unlocking the money of the municipalities but here we are talking about money that the state had put to make important investments in the outskirts. I believe that this is truly paradoxical and that we are faced with a situation that is still not defined. You are playing the three cards on the skin of municipalities, citizens and places that need to be requalified. This is unacceptable and the PD will not put this situation into oblivion: we will always be here to remind you, because it represents a qualifying point, which applies to the whole of Italy and not just to a political part. We are talking about an important issue for our communities and I believe that it must be brought to the end. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Floris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u25	Senator Durnwalder has the right to explain the question 3-00252 on the current rules of casual work, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u26	Mr President, Minister, with the decree of dignity, so-called vouchers have been reintroduced in a different way from the previous rules. However, a number of new requirements have also been introduced with the new rules, which make their use difficult, particularly for agricultural enterprises. The INPS has not yet given clear indications about their application and its site the procedure is cumbersome and difficult to use. Before use, payment of the fee to the virtual account is required, but the amount is credited on average only after ten days and before it is not usable. Moreover, from the new discipline are excluded those farms that exceed the limit of five permanent employees; it is no coincidence that the active relationships, unlike previous experiences, are only a few tens of thousands, thus decreeing the substantial failure. There is also the case of local authorities, which use social cooperatives and non-profit organizations of social utility to provide social assistance under exceptional and temporary conditions, and which today complain that there is no bureaucratically simple means of guaranteeing the provision of these services. For all these reasons, the questioner asks whether the Minister does not consider it appropriate to re-introduce the Vouchers Institute as it was before their repeal, which took place with Decree-Law No 25 of 17 March 2017, re-introduced Articles 48, 49 and 50 of Legislative Decree No 81 of 2015, and to include among the possible beneficiaries also persons registered regularly in the compulsory general insurance. It is also asked whether it is not possible to extend the use of occasional benefits also to non-commercial entities and non-profit organizations of social utility, which organize social, welfare and socio-pedagogical services, including on behalf of the municipalities. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u27	The Minister for Economic Development and Labour and Social Policy, Mr Di Maio, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u28	Mr President, senators and senators, with the decree of dignity, we have introduced some urgent corrective measures to regulate occasional benefits, with a view to avoiding misuse of the instrument, at the expense of more stable forms of work. The Dignity Decree limits the scope of the vouchers to businesses in the agricultural sector, hotels and accommodation facilities, which employ up to eight workers and has also extended for local authorities the period of use of occasional benefits, from three to ten days. Vouchers can be used to work with old-age or invalidity pensions, young people under 25 (if regularly enrolled in a course of study, including university), unemployed persons and recipients of supplementary pay benefits, inclusive income or other income support benefits. They must also be not included in the lists of agricultural workers in the previous year. The Dignity Decree also provided for some simplifications including the new method of payment of the worker which is added to the existing ones. With regard to the possible extension of the use of occasional benefits to non-commercial entities and non-profit organizations of social utility, I would like to point out that the current rules do not prevent recourse to occasional benefits, provided that they do so in compliance with the limits laid down by law and the prohibition of the use of the occasional service contract in the context of the execution of works or services contracts. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u29	I give the floor to Senator Durnwalder to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u30	Minister, yours was a mere explanation of the text that we know very well. We heard little again, I must say, in his answer. However, we will also insist in the future, in the different locations and with different requests, on the improvement of the voucher institute which, as it is currently conceived, does not work, particularly for our reality. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u31	Senator De Petris has the power to explain the question 3-00246 on the solution of the employment crises of the province of Frosinone and the Unicoop Tyrrhenian, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u32	Minister, you are certainly aware of the very serious employment situation in the entire area of Frusinate, a situation which has been dragging on for a long time and which continues to affect hundreds of workers and families. In particular, with regard to the complex crisis area of Frusinate, as you know, the shock absorbers related to mobility by way of derogation, in particular for 300 people, have now expired or have been discovered. The coverage necessary for the extension of mobility and the unblocking of the process relating to the payment of previous years has not been identified. In particular, even through a dialectic with the Lazio Region, the problem focused on the lack of 5 and a half million euros. It is clear that all this is not enough to solve the critical issues of this area, but it is also clear that it is absolutely necessary that the procedures for the signing of the program agreement and the publication of the notices for the reindustrialization of the area are brought to conclusion. The second question, Minister, on which I believe that some meetings have already been held at the Ministry of Economic Development, concerns the dispute concerning the Tirreno Unicoop which sees hundreds of workers risking their jobs because of a wrong industrial plan that provides for the sale, among other things, of the eight points of sale in southern Lazio. There are 270 workers at risk of work. So I ask you, Minister, how the meetings are proceeding with the Ministry of Economic Development and what you intend to do to ensure an adequate solution to the issue of the 300 social shock absorbers discovered, for mobility by way of derogation from the dispute of the Frusinate, and as regards the second issue that we care about regarding the Tyrrhenian Unicoop and in particular how to prevent the disposal of the eight points of sale. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Economic Development and Labour and Social Policy, Mr Di Maio, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u33	Mr President, first of all, I would like to reiterate the willingness which I have also given to the workers' representatives and the secretaries of the various trade unions on the issue of the social shock absorbers by way of derogation which will have to be renewed because we have hundreds of thousands of people who are at risk of being without income because, at some point, in 2015, we chose to shorten the duration of the integration fund. So, in general, I want to say first of all that we are not only very sensitive to this issue but I am pleased that at four o'clock last night, thanks to the reinstatement of the integration fund for the termination of the so-called emergency decree, we avoided that over 300 people would end up in the middle of the street in the Bekaert dispute. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Now we'll find the partner to reindustrialize that plant. With regard to the state of crisis that has hit the Coop Italia group and the current situation of the industrial plan of rationalization and disengagement, we have followed the initiatives of the unions, worried about the serious socio-economic repercussions that could result from the implementation of the industrial plan of the Unicoop Tyrrhenian, containing the cession of eight points of sale, as you said, in the South of Lazio. At the table, in the presence of all, the company has described a general situation of crisis and constant losses especially in the eight points of sale mentioned, that they would like to quit. The Minister of Economic Development, with the sharing of the participants to the table, asked the representatives of the company to block the path started of sale of the points of sale, to have from the company in short time a response about the beginning of a path of confrontation unitary and shared with the social partners and the intervention, at the next meeting of the ministerial table, the president and the general manager of Unipop Tirreno. One thing is certain: we do not want to underestimate this crisis, there are many families involved. With the practice of listening carefully to the workers, I am sure that we will come to a solution that can satisfy everyone's interests, like so many other tables that we have closed in recent months [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u34	Senator De Petris has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u35	Minister, as far as Unipop Tirreno is concerned, the invitation to the company to suspend the sale and closure of the points of sale is very good. Of course we are counting on the fact that on the point we will continue to be decisive, also because I would like to remind you - and also myself - that these employees had already given up substantial parts of the supplementary contract, precisely in order to meet the needs of the company. Among other things, Unicoop had already carried out absorption operations of other brands, so it is not really possible to understand how it has carried out such an industrial plan, which, in the end, it is always the workers who pay. We are therefore counting on the fact that we are moving forward in this respect in order to find a solution. With regard to the issue of the dispute, however, the question, for now, lies in the release of funds also through an interview and an agreement with the Lazio Region, in order to guarantee, at least to the last 300 workers, the possibility of taking advantage of mobility by way of derogation.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u36	Senator Garnero Santanchè has the power to explain the question 3-00248 on the high prices of fuels and services in the motorway parking areas, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u37	Minister, I am sure that you too will find that there is a well-established and widespread knowledge of the problem of the high price of fuel and catering services along the national motorway network. In the space of fifteen years, i.e. since the privatisation of the network, the gap between the price of fuel applied along the national motorway and the ordinary road was a few cents in 2003 (which is also understandable, given the type of service provided, for twenty-four hours a day). This gap today is greater and ranges from a minimum of 11 to a maximum of 33 cents per litre of petrol, depending on the comparison made (with the average benchmark of the oil-branded road network or independent operators, which in the most common language are called "white pumps"); and in fact, Italians, if they can, do without supplying on the highways. This is such a significant gap that it cannot in any way be regarded as motivated by market reasons. It is well known that the dealers of the motorway routes impose on the operators entrusted with the very high royalty sales service - with regard to fuels, volumes delivered and, as regards the food and beverage category, sales values - which affect the formation of sales prices to consumers, making them really disproportionate, compared with those applied on the ordinary road network. According to very conservative estimates, in the five-year period 2003-2017 the amount of royalties was about EUR 5 billion and this is also accompanied by a very high increase in our motorway tolls, which, as you know, Minister, are the highest in Europe. Taking all this into account and considering that the imposition of royalties by dealers in the terms I have described above is in fact a worsening change of conditions, both as regards consumers, but also as regards those companies that operate with risks on their own skin and on their investments, I ask you, Minister, what urgent initiatives you intend to take in the light of the critical issues highlighted in the premise, in order to verify the correctness of the conduct to impose royalty and in any case ensure conditions of equal opportunity and fair and uniform functioning of the market without distorting effects for the companies that operate in the sectors concerned, with consequent penalties for users and consumers who travel daily the motorway routes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Economic Development and Labour and Social Policy, Mr Di Maio, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u38	Thank you, President, and thank you, Senator. The question of the correctness of the taxation of royalty in the concessions of the highway services, among which those connected to the fuels or to the catering, cannot be excluded from the Ministry of Infrastructures and the transports: in fact, the management of the motorway concessions is discussed. The role of the Ministry of Economic Development in this field is defined by interministerial decree MIT-MISE of 2015, in which a plan of restructure of the net of the highway service areas is approved that is updated every five years and that previews an extraordinary revision on reasoned request of the concessionaire and the conceder only in case of extraordinary events. As regards royalties, the Competition and Market Authority had expressed preference for their determination in fixed value, specifying that this could be done to maximise sales volumes and to reduce the impact of the fee, with a simultaneous decrease in price and/or improvement in quality. The Authority also envisaged a possible alternative mixed system and the adoption in calls for tenders of price review mechanisms, in order to allow the adjustment of the fixed royalty to objective parameters (e.g. changes in traffic flows on the motorway network). We are working together with the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport to find all possible solutions to the problem. In general, however, I would like to remind you that our Government has undertaken to review the whole system of concessions, from highways to mineral waters. It has become clear to everyone, with the dramatic collapse of the bridge of Genoa, that the current system does not work; therefore we cannot go on in this way. The State must be more present and exercise more control over the concessionaire, particularly when it comes to the safety and life of its citizens. Where there were abuses, it is obvious that the same concession can be re-discussed. In the emergency decree we have established that the company Autostrade will not rebuild the bridge, thanks to the extraordinary powers of the commissioner, whose appointment has been officialized today. In this regard, I wish the new commissioner for the reconstruction of the bridge Morandi of Genoa, Mayor Marco Bucci, good work. Now central government and local government have the same burdens, the same responsibilities and a great challenge to win together: to raise Genoa. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u39	Senator Garnero Santanchè has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u40	Minister, I cannot be satisfied with your reply. In the meantime, it seems to me to be an answer that has a lot to do in a somewhat bureaucratic way, and I believe that the citizens, who may be watching the direct question time, have little understood from his words. I, of course, as you referred to it, wish Mayor Bucci, the new Commissioner, for I believe that finally, after a long time, Genoa and the whole of Italy can have a glimmer of light and the famous bridge. But I am sorry to say, Minister, that in the emergency decree-law nothing of what I have asked you to do, but it seems to me that it has a very strong impact on citizens. Maybe I should have asked Minister Toninelli, but I understand you're also Vice Premier of this government. However, apart from the unsatisfying words, I hope you can surprise us all with the facts and wish you well. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u41	Senator Malan has the right to explain the question 3-00247 on how to finance citizenship income, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u42	Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Council and Minister for Labour, you have recently celebrated the abolition of poverty - as you said - thanks to the income of citizenship. You celebrated it from the balcony, as it hadn't happened for a long time, and I think no one would regret it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The previous time did not go very well, I must say; we hope for the better this time. You said that poverty was abolished thanks to EUR 10 billion allocated for citizenship income and citizenship pension. I wrote the question just 27 hours ago on these figures. Then last night, you yourself, Minister Di Maio, made it clear on Facebook that one billion, of those 10 billion, serves to strengthen employment centres and only 9 billion go to the assisted citizens. We take note of that. This morning, the other Vice-President of the Council, Mr Salvini, said that in reality there are only 8 billion citizens' income and everything else, including the strengthening of employment centres. But, Minister Di Maio, I stand with you, in the sense that I take the amount that you yourself, a few hours ago, at 8.30 p.m. yesterday, said: 9 billion. And I'll also see that it's new money, that is, not maybe coming from income inclusion or other forms of care, otherwise it would mean that that 9 billion is much less. We realize that it is really 9 billion and that it is all new (we will know precisely when we finally see the bill). Unfortunately, in Italy, the poor, according to ISTAT, are 9.368,000. Do you know how much he comes to the head a month for these 9,368,000? Exactly 80 euros, indeed 80 euros and 6 cents. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] In short, the Government of change, the parties on the balcony and on the boat, the international disputes that have already cost 3 billion more interests that we have already committed to spending more on the public debt, to have the usual 80 euros? It is a measure that you have criticized, and we too, because we considered it inadequate, illusory and costly. You said, however, that it will only be for 6.5 million citizens. But does that mean that 2,888,000 poor Italians will not see a penny from this citizenship income? Holidays just for you and not for them? As for the 6.5 million supposed lucky, it is 115 euros per month, because we have to divide the usual 9 billion - Salvini allowing - for 6.5 million: it is 115 euros per month. But how, we all memorized the magical figure of 780 euros a month, and then at the good time it's only 115? Minister, the problem with the budget law is that it is done with numbers and not with ads, and the accounts must come back, as all Italian families know. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] COLLINA (PD). Bravo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Minister for Economic Development and Labour and Social Policy, Mr Di Maio, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u43	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Malan, who I want to reassure first of all: there are the funds to implement all the measures of the budget law; there are so many of them that we also pay back the debts of those who were there before, because VAT does not increase. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I thank you for this question, because it gives me the opportunity to explain how citizenship income works, which is first and foremost a measure of active labour policy. We are working to relaunch employment centres first of all: we are doing this with collaborations with universities in the United States and with a confrontation with the German Government, in fact on Monday there will be a meeting between me and the Minister of Labour in Berlin. Of course, the income of citizenship is directed, as you said, Senator Malan, to people in relative poverty and in absolute poverty. First of all, there is a detail that must be borne in mind: people in relative poverty are not at zero euros, and that is what does not come into account - I say it without controversy - that you did. The income of citizenship means that everyone must be guaranteed an income of 780 euros bound to: works of public utility; continuous training during the day; do not refuse more than three job proposals. But that doesn't mean everyone will get 780 euros. If a person, for example, has an income of 500 euros, he/she will receive 280 if he/she enters the program of requalification and training and works of public utility; if a person has an income of 200 he/she will receive 580; if he/she has zero income he/she will receive 780 euros. Then, the audience that you are talking about is also made of foreigners and not of Italian citizens long-staying and we have narrowed the income to the audience of Italian citizens long-staying So, putting together the reduction of the number of 10 million and the fact that not all will take 780 euros but will be an income supplement to what you already earn, there is not the division for which you reach 115 euros or even 80 euros - God we are sorry! - which you quoted. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Simply, we have done well and we find ourselves with a measure that tries not only to combat poverty, but also to help many young people who, for example, are currently in a depressed bed because, after sending resumes for three years without anyone having answered them, or are making a ticket to go to London forever or are deciding not to leave the house anymore. We give them an opportunity, which is not to take the money by being on the couch. This is a measure that does not give a single euro to those on the sofa, because everyone will have to have a busy day for training and public works. This also means that the beneficiaries will not have time to work in black and, if they cheat, get caught up to six years in jail for statements that do not comply with the law. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Therefore, we have also included in this rule a number of measures that contrast the clever, because we want to turn only to decent people, to those who behave honestly. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Finally, let me say that this maneuver, which we have called the "maneuver of the people," is a revolutionary maneuver because, at last, it pays the people back after for years the Italian people have had to pay waste, privileges, golden pensions, vitality, Air Force Renzi, and those who have more to put them. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u44	I call Senator Malan to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u45	Minister, for now the Italians have paid you millions of votes, which you have undoubtedly taken, but taking into account your promises, which seem to me to be getting further and further away from what you are doing. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] In fact, 115 euros per head for only about two thirds of the poor I think is not really what the Italians expected. Of course, you are right: not all the poor are zero, but many are. Do you know how many €780 is enough for? That's enough for 961,000 people: there are 780 euros per month for 961,000 people, with those 9 billions for which you assured us that there are covers. So, I think the Italians expected something quite different, the problem, as you said, is that the accounts have to be brought back. The average is that, so there may be limitations. I conclude by quoting Umberto Bossi, who just this morning said that assistantism has never solved the problems of this country, and quoting Milton Friedman, who said: if you pay those who do not work and tax those who work (you even said that if you work - rightly, for goodness sake - and take the income of citizenship goes to jail for six years), you will hardly create anything but unemployment. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u46	Senator Matrisciano has the right to explain the question 3-00251 on measures to support workers in companies in crisis, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u47	Mr President, while job recovery is the cornerstone of the reform of employment centres and citizenship income, a measure of proactivity aimed at restoring dignity to workers and citizens in general, it seems necessary to encourage the rapid reintegration of workers into the employment system by setting up targeted training and income support measures to this end, which respond to a careful analysis and precise correspondence between the demand and supply of labour in the different territories. Given that, due to erroneous policies implemented by previous governments, a large number of workers are losing their jobs, thus risking to remain without income, currently at the Ministry of Economic Development are activated about 160 tables of corporate crisis involving about 180,000 workers, particular attention must be paid to the situation of companies that cease the activity, but appear able to guarantee the continuity of employment and production indirectly through the transfer of the company to third parties. It is therefore asked to know what actions the Government intends to put in place in order to come to the aid of the workers of the companies mentioned, in order not to disperse the company assets including the human resources, also guaranteeing the continuity of the support to the income of the workers concerned.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u48	The Minister for Economic Development and Labour and Social Policy, Mr Di Maio, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u49	Mr President, in my opinion, the policies on work carried out previously in recent years have devastated the rights of workers and have brought no significant advantage to our small and medium-sized enterprises; indeed, entrepreneurs have been stifled at the same time by bureaucracy and taxation. I do not speak out of hearsay, but because every day, in the role I play, I am obliged to listen to the problems of the victims of this unholy policy. Corporate crises are in fact the responsibility of the Ministries of economic development and labour and social policies, who follow all the crises carefully thanks to the staff of the Ministries and, when necessary, with my person. There are the real problems of people, hence the answers to the real needs of workers and entrepreneurs. Thanks also to this comparison we decided to re-introduce, as I said, with the decree-emergency law, the fund integration for termination, which is allowing us to give a future and a perspective of work to thousands of families who will not live on Cassa Integrazione. It is, in fact, just a bridge measure waiting for the reindustrialization of sites that cease to function because someone, some taker, some multinational decides to go to Romania or Poland and leave over 300 families in the middle of a road. The choice to eliminate this protection with the jobs act was absolutely insane and it would have been enough to sit down and talk to the workers so as not to do so; obviously, it was preferred to speak only and exclusively with lobbyists and bankers. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Work is the greatest challenge of this Government and that is why we are pursuing the great reform of employment centres, which is the cornerstone of the introduction of citizenship income. While young people, often disoriented and dismayed by the difficulties in finding their first job, must be included in the labour market, our Government is close at hand and is working for the thousands of workers who, since 24 September last, have begun to have no more the extraordinary integration fund. In fact, we are developing a number of rules and measures to restore these instruments quickly. We're not leaving anyone alone, workers and entrepreneurs. We're not gonna let anyone end up on the street. We're not leaving anyone unheard. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u50	Senator Matrisciano has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u51	Minister, I can be satisfied with your answer. We welcome the introduction of this instrument, which aims, once again, to show how this Government and this majority are continuing their journey alongside the citizens and especially the workers, but not only the entrepreneurs, who have been mortified in recent years by policies that are not attentive to their actual needs. We do not say that, we receive daily feedback from citizens who tell us that we are going in the right direction. Leaving the crisis tables at the Ministry of Economic Development, in which we can participate thanks to a measure, citizens and workers tell us that for the first time they feel the government close, they feel accompanied. I would therefore like to thank you once again for this instrument and call for us to continue along this path, because that is the right direction. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u52	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u55	FOURTH (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this speech I would like to recall a tragic event which took place yesterday on the seventh anniversary. At 12.21 a.m. on 3 October 2011 a dramatic collapse of a building shook the urban center of Barletta, emotionally involving the whole of Italy. Maria Cinquepalmi, Antonella Zaza, Matilde Doronzo, Giovanna Sardaro and Tina Ceci, four young workers from a factory on the ground floor of the building, and the 14-year-old daughter of the laboratory owner, were buried under the ruins of the collapse and lost their lives. To them our remembrance, to their loved ones our renewed mourning. Two other women, of whom one in the fifth month of pregnancy, were instead extracted alive from the rubble, with a daring, moving and memorable feat of the firefighters, of whom they were always proud. As acclaimed in criminal judgments, until the recent judgment of the degree of appeal, the tragic disaster was caused by various empires in the works that were being carried out next to the collapsed palace, for demolition and reconstruction of a building. Yet, they had been warned and denounced with obvious warning signs. It is incredible that, at a time when millimeter movements between continents are measured, the tried and tested investigations of the case have not been carried out. The indirect causes of the collapse, which cannot be judged in criminal proceedings, but which can be censored from a social, cultural and political point of view, are due to frequent bad urban building management. To rip apart an old urban agglomeration of over a century is always a dangerous operation. It is better to safeguard, for the benefit of the safety and conservation of the valuable historical and architectural heritage. Recovery plans for historic centres should be preferred over building replacements or new urban expansion plans. The degradation of the historic center is also the result of the disproportionate castings of peripheral cement, which coagulate deleterious interwoven interests and consume swervingly soil. Stop soil consumption, re-launching existing building assets and promoting urban regeneration programs is an imperative of the contract for the Government of Change. Honor to the victims and be an extreme warning to prevent such tragedies. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u58	NISINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, speaking also on behalf of Senator Briziarelli, I would like to point out to the House the fact that in February this year it saw the collapse of a parking lot on the E45 motorway in the province of Arezzo, at the level of the Municipality of Pieve Santo Stefano. The news is that the collapse has brought to light the presence of asbestos in quantities almost three times higher than permitted by law. This is one of the results - perhaps the most striking - that emerged from the technical report delivered these days to the Arezzo Public Prosecutor. The data from the samples analysed would refer to 3,470 milligrams per kilo of asbestos present on the soil taken from the site. However, the permitted limit by law is 1,000 milligrams, so there would have been a concentration of 250 percent in that soil above the permitted limit. From the news it is known that the first suspects had already emerged last March: less than a month from the landslide, close to Pieve Santo Stefano (between the exits Pieve Santo Stefano Nord and Pieve Santo Stefano Sud), was in fact seized also the area where the material had been stored, while the work of resetting the pitch continued. Attorney Roberto Rossi had opened a file assuming the crime of manslaughter. According to the investigation environments, under the pitch there was not only carry-over ground or rock, but there were also special garbage. The suspicions raised by the prosecutor's office of Arezzo and the forest carabinieri of the prosecutor's environmental group, in charge of carrying out the investigations, would have found important findings. The careful and detailed study was carried out by the study Boeri of Livorno. In other words, it is the same one that has carried out investigations in the so-called land of fires and in the case of Moby Prince. In fact, this massive presence is the certification, if still needed, of the fact that the land and excavation rocks under that road are actually a mixture of lands and demolition waste, and who knows what else. Everything seems to be the certification that some of those who have achieved that important artery over decades have done so without too many scruples and guided by their own personal interest rather than by the public one. This is a serious indication that who should have checked the progress of the work or did not do it or did it little and badly. I hope that we can take immediate action on this issue by means of an urgent act or a cognitive investigation to understand the current situation on the motorway. In the regional sphere, our regional advisors of the League, Valerio Mancini for Umbria and Elisa Montemagni for Tuscany, have already activated by filing a motion in this regard. Once the bicameral Commission on the eco-reactors has been set up, we will ask for an investigation to be opened and more road sections to be checked, given that it is not known how many kilometres of the E45 Highway the compound containing hazardous waste has been used. The safety of citizens, even in the light of recent and tragic events, must have the highest priority: clarity is needed so that we can ascertain all responsibility. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u59	The President of the Senate has called to be part of the Italian parliamentary delegation to the NATO Assembly senators: Cristiano Anastasi, Massimo Candura, Andrea Cangini, Alessandra Maiorino, Riccardo Nencini, Fabrizio Ortis, Adriano Paroli, Emanuele Pellegrini, Roberta Pinotti. The President of the Chamber of Deputies called for the same delegation to be members: Matteo Luigi Bianchi, Edmondo Cirielli, Paolo Formentini, Luca Frusone, Luigi Iovino, Luca Lotti, Marco Minniti, Andrea Orsini, Michele Sodano.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u60	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-44.ana.u61	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 9 October, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 15:52 a.m.
