ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u3	I communicate that, on 25 July 2018, the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers - Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 91 of 25 July 2018, extending the time limits provided for by legislative provisions - 717.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u4	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u5	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 675, already approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u6	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, reading the heading of the decree-law that we are debating today, I almost congratulated you on the fact that we are talking about judicial building for the Bari court and the prosecutor of the Republic in the same court. My first thought was therefore that the government began with an important activity, that of judicial construction. And I must confess to my colleagues that I have also felt a bit of envy, because in Bari there would have been judicial building, while the palace of justice of my city, Catania, is not in these conditions (perhaps because its construction began in 1937), and certainly "dismantling" also for that embarrassing situation resulting from the elimination of all the detached sections of the courts and courts of the territory. This moment of envy immediately passed me as soon as I went to read the decree-law, in which we talk about everything except building and instead provides for the interruption of the prescription. I do not dwell on matters of unconstitutionality, because I spoke yesterday, we all explained them and the House considered that the preliminary constitutionality was not founded, so I will go into the substance of the provision but I cannot accept the fact that the suspension of the prescription represents a serious vulnus to our legal system. I said this yesterday and I would like to repeat it: the limitation is not a procedural term, but it is a substantive right closely linked to the potestas that the State has to punish and the punishableness is closely linked to the prescription. The State has the right to punish, but has a time within which it can exercise this power; after that time, it is no longer possible to punish. Article 25 of the Constitution on the principle of legality is very clear in this regard. If the suspension of the limitation is due to the responsibility of the State, the paradox arises: as the rapporteur has also said, sometimes in our system there has been a suspension of the limitation, but for reasons not resulting from the failure of the State. I refer, for example, to cases where there has been an unpredictable natural event such as the earthquake. However, the fact that in Bari the tragic situation which was also presented yesterday in this House has been going on for more than ten years and that at some point the problems of the justice of that city are resolved by the suspension of the prescription, I think it is abnormal. If we add to this that all the realities of Bari's justice, which are those who have suffered and who suffer this situation, have expressed themselves during the hearings in the Chamber of Deputies in a totally negative way on the measure under consideration, it is clear the paradox that on the one hand the Minister tries to recover the difficulties that have been explained to him when he went to Bari, on the other he responds with a measure that is contrary to the demands of all the actors of Bari's justice. I therefore think that here we see the paradox of a sick justice, which does not find the possibility of a response from the Government. While bearing in mind that, of course, the current Government has no responsibility in relation to the situation of the judicial buildings and the palace of justice of Bari, an intervention in this sense does not solve any problem. I wonder what we will do on 30 September: will we make a new extension? The truth is another, namely that the Minister had committed himself to solving the problem, but he does not assume the responsibility that has been proposed to him by all oppositions. In fact, some amendments were tabled to the Commission with the aim of entrusting the full powers - let us call them - through an extraordinary commission at the head of the Minister, in order to resolve, in the way he considered most appropriate, this problem, which has a great deal to do with the justice and the court of Bari. That is why I believe that the decree-law and the bill of conversion to our examination are an offense to the request, which comes from the actors of Bari justice. I do not know what will happen after 30 September: I only know that the summits of the Bari judiciary have said and reiterated that this suspension will have further negative effects. In fact, to resume all activity with at least 60,000 notifications - this is what has been indicated in the report - and to recover this backwardness will take ten years: so they said... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u7	Colleagues, I ask you kindly to lower the tone of your voice, because I cannot listen to my fellow senator. I ask you, please, to exchange your information more fully.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u8	STANCANELLI (FdI). Thank you, Mr President. I don't know if it's gonna take ten years, but it's definitely gonna take years. So it is a remedy that worsens the situation of justice in Bari. I listened to the Minister at the hearing at the competent Commission, and I have to say to him, in this House, that he has proposed solutions, in general, which have seen me so much in favour and that, as I said yesterday, I have seen him prepared for listening. I would not wish that, having taken this initiative so suddenly, today does not want to go back, in the light of the debate that has developed both in the Commission and in this House and that it does not have the courage to say: We've made a mistake. It can happen that you are wrong: it is not something from the other world. This is the first time that this ruling class has faced concrete problems, which go beyond the pure declamation of principle. I therefore think that, in order to meet the needs which it is believed to have to remedy with the decree-law in question, something can be done that effectively helps Bari's justice and meets the needs highlighted by all the actors of justice, lawyers, magistrates, chancellors and technicians of the Bari court, putting in condition the Minister to do his duty concretely, giving him ample opportunity to act. That is what we think we have to say, with an addition: I would not want to go any further in telling the small - or great lie - that there would be financial invariance. It was widely said yesterday and the Member of the Democratic Party's Budget Committee spoke about it, who explained that there is absolutely no financial variance, because redoing notifications (not 3,000 or 4,000, but 50,000, 60,000 or more, as has been calculated), will cost more than the EUR 60,000 indicated in the report. That is why, on behalf of the Brothers of Italy Group, and as we will also say in the explanation of vote, I express great dissatisfaction with a remedy that will aggravate the situation of Bari's judicial offices. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u9	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Emanuele. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u10	Mr President, we are here today to debate the situation arising from the inaccessible palace of justice in Bari, daughter of the paradoxical situation in which the Italian state of justice is located. In particular, we see that in an important Italian city such as Bari there is no possibility, for any citizen, of having the sacred right, regardless of what he has accomplished, to have access to justice in a decent way, but above all legitimate and safe. If today we have to discuss the conversion of the decree-law that suspends for a limited period and defined the course of the terms of the criminal proceedings at the court of Bari is to intervene on a situation that is undeniable and resoundingly emergent. How can we think of giving protection to innocent citizens until proven otherwise if we Member States are not able to provide a decent and minimally secure home for all those who have to access it? How can we fulfil the social contract if we cannot even allow the employees of justice to carry out their duty? How can we be said to be fulfilling, if we have to reduce ourselves to working in a sick and lucky camping as it happened until a few weeks ago? This is shameful. To those who today accuse us of having carried out an anti-constitutional rule, however, I must reply that this rule is so unconstitutional that it wants to guarantee the investigations, that it wants to respect the terms of all the parties involved, including the defenses. Perhaps one forgets what the Constitution is, perhaps one forgets that the guarantee of the constituent Fathers is a guarantee of freedom and in our case it is a guarantee of being able to receive a fair and correct process and it is our duty to do everything in order to allow this process. A duty that we are fulfilling by seeking emerging solutions in an emerging situation. Given that the real estate issue does not concern the examination measure at all, it should be remembered that the property was declared unworkable in May of the current year by the mayor of Bari. We cannot remain silent, however, as the local majority group has been the same since 2004 with the Democratic Party. We also regret that the former mayor Emiliano, today President of the Region, is magistrate and therefore well aware of the problem, not new to the operators of the right of each category. In this exercise of historical reconstruction, which is necessary for those who listen and for all of us, we must also point out that this building was chosen as provisional seat in 1990, as the seat of the judicial offices, but already in 2002 problems began to arise, when the building was kidnapped for building abuse, with the faculty of use of the property. Subsequently the non-compliance of the building with the standards of public construction emerged and after again in 2010, following the reporting of the workers, the work of consolidation of the building began. It's all useless. You get to 2018, as mentioned, when the mayor comes to intervene with the declaration of inadmissibility. It is worth remembering, as some yesterday's speeches correctly pointed out, that we were not actors in all this process. I stress all this because today we are attacking the majority, which has the right-duty to intervene. But I'm sorry, how is it possible to be guilty of not having solved in a month a problem that has been forgotten for decades, when someone else has been standing still for years? [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] In any case, the polemics leave them to others. We want to look ahead and try to find a solution to a problem which, as I said initially, is much wider than what it seems today and which concerns the problem of the state of judicial construction and unfortunately not only in Bari. We realize that ensuring a fair and dignified trial is the non-derogable minimum that the State must ensure. We do not offend ourselves, as was stated during the debate on the question referred to us, if Parliament is to hold discussions on measures such as today's. Far from it. Parliament must play a central role once again. However, we must also explain in Parliament and to all citizens why we have been reduced to this point. We must explain why the former Minister of Justice did not find the time to try to resolve the situation, even in an emerging way. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] And we have to solve the problem. How many Bari are there on the territory, even without reaching the drama in which the palace of justice of this city is poured? On the substance of the case, the measure merely ensures that the proceedings are orderly. The suspension does not operate in cases of urgency. Among other things, we remember that the effects of the measure are also concrete in August, that - who knows the courtrooms well - it is a month in which, in itself, many judicial activities are suspended or postponed due to the absence of the staff on leave, including the magistrates. It has been argued that the approval of the measure involves costs for notifications, but without stressing how much of the same can be done telematically. And, frankly, the actual costs should be charged to those who caused this situation. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Group]] That is why, by taking up what was said yesterday by the opposition of the Democratic Party, we do not make exceptions to guaranteeing, but we do not make exceptions to the right of citizens to a fair and decent trial. And that is why we will move forward with determination and common sense, always to remedy years of immobilism [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u11	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, we have tried in every way to avoid a picnic and, as a first step, a sanction of unconstitutionality. We have done so in every way, trying to bring you to reason and explain why. We couldn't do it. So we got an idea. Probably with the decree-law under consideration you are paying for the novitiate's burn, that is, you behaved like that surgeon whose hand shakes and who, instead of using the scalpel, uses the mannaia, creating a disaster around him. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] That is the conviction that we have made ourselves. Since you did not hear from the constitutional ear, we tried to improve the measure, making it more adherent to what were and are the needs and needs of Bari's court and tribunals. We have told you that we do not need a decree-law that suspends the procedural terms until 30 September, because we are convinced that on that date you will return to this House with another decree-law that will extend the suspension of the terms for another sixty days and so who knows until when. We said: Minister, assume the responsibility of being the extraordinary commissioner, with extraordinary powers, giving certainty on the ways, routes and times with which the normality in judicial activity will return. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] There was nothing to do. We have told you: specify the date from which the time limits for suspending proceedings should begin and indicate the date of 30 September 2018 in order to avoid misunderstandings. This had been reported by the Chamber of Deputies' Studies Service and the Senate's Constitutional Affairs Committee and had been requested by lawyers, magistrates and chancellors. Nothing to do, even here absolute deafness. We have told you: specify what are the preliminary investigations that must be suspended and which do not, in order to avoid an overall engraving of judicial activity. No way. We have told you: have the constitutional and institutional grace to remove the reference to Article 159 of the penal code, because the prescription - it has been said several times and even the walls of this House know it - is a substantial institution and not a procedural one. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] No way. After learning that about 9,000 proceedings will be suspended before the peace court, 30,000 proceedings before the court and 20,000-25,000 proceedings in the preliminary investigation phase, we told you: try to enter a cover. We didn't blaspheme. We said: try to predict a coverage for notifications. And you have said that this measure is financially unchanged and will be met with the burden of 60,000 to 80,000 notifications. I say that instead, there are 200,000 notifications because for every case there is a lawyer, the prosecutor, a defendant and at least a injured party. We are talking about about 60,000 processes: 6 times 4 is 24; there are 240,000 notifications and you have not foreseen a penny to proceed in an extraordinary way to the notification. Say that the staff will provide you: that is the staff of Bari, who, like that of all offices in chronic shortage, cannot make notifications in peacetime, will be able to make 240,000 notifications in time of war! No way! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This is a measure that will not block the prescription, but will create thousands of prescriptions: thousands of processes will prescribe themselves. Surely the defendants will be grateful, but I do not know if the same sentiment will be offered to you by the injured parties and by the lawyers.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u13	Senator Vitali, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u14	VITALI (FI-BP). Yes, Mr President, but it takes away the best part. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Face it now. VITALI (FI-BP). Mr President, I wonder why you did not accept any amendments. At the House at first reading there was no problem. Did you do it out of ignorance? I don't think so. You did it out of presumption. Yes, for the arrogance that creates the scent of power! [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] I remind you, then, that adage that says: who goes too high, often and often falls. You can't tell us we didn't warn you. We'll be waiting for you at the entrance. However, you have achieved one result. You agreed with the magistrates, lawyers and chancellors, who did not want to be in the tents, who today say: we were better when we were worse! Congratulations! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u15	She is registered to speak Senator Piarulli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u16	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to stress the issues on this issue, because it repetits iuvant. A vexed question to say the least disconcerting, an old and tormented affair, which sees heavy responsibilities on the part of those who had the duty to supervise. Shameful delays, dysfunctions, protests, from the professionals (magistrates, judicial staff, lawyers) but above all discomforts and protests from those who rely on justice, that is, the citizens, the community, who has suffered a real affront. Let's rebuild this story. The palace of via Nazariantz, owned by INAIL, obtained a certificate of agibility back in 2000. Over the years, almost five years later, structural problems had already been highlighted. The verification, while leading to a confirmation of the suitability to accommodate public offices, was completely lacking of an effective monitoring of the structure, as they were evident, already then, not only structural dysfunctions (such as the fall of pieces of cornice) but also on the side of the plant, so much so as to lead, over time, not to provide for the repair in the face of the continuous failures. We arrive at 31 May when, in the face of a fearful structural risk, an order is adopted for the revocation of the same agibility. The hearings were celebrated in the tents set up by the Civil Protection, with macroscopic difficulties in carrying out the processes, some even suspended, with prejudice to the health of all, not having suitable working conditions (not to say sufficiently human), with the consequent procedural lengths. This is a demonstration of poor administrative and political management, where justice has cost it. I believe that from those who, at least, have demonstrated a clear culpa in guarding what has happened today (taking into account that, until 2015, the maintenance of the buildings of the offices of the judicial offices was the responsibility of the Municipality and, since 2016, of the Ministry of Justice, both of which are part of the political group of the Democratic Party) a clear admission of responsibility is necessary. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Therefore, one cannot fail to recognize today the efforts of the Minister of Justice Bonafede, who had to solve an atavistic problem in a short time. Today the magic wands are not there and we know that when there is an urgency it is more difficult to deal with the various situations. It is necessary to focus on why we have reached this point, because over the years this problem has not been definitively resolved by the construction of a citadel for justice. As director of the Puglia penitentiary institution, before this mandate to the Senate, I must emphasize with force, just as the vice premier Di Maio did, the need for a public building that is adapted to the legislation of legislative decree n. 81 of 2008 in a programmatic way and not in an extemporaneous way so as not to put at risk workers, users and employers on which they impose (also on the latter) the consequent responsibilities. Therefore, an opinion is expressed widely in favour of this decree-law aimed only at overcoming these obvious critical issues. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u17	The general debate is closed. I call on the rapporteur to speak on the G100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u18	Mr President, I would like this House to be realistic again on this matter. We are talking about a three-month delay - I repeat: three-month delay - mainly for the benefit of the defences because all the time limits, including those for the benefit of the accused, are suspended. So I cannot understand the bitterness of certain oppositions on this issue, as if the Republican Constitution were at stake. This is the first question. Secondly, the decree on our examination has nothing to do with construction. I would like to thank Senator Stancanelli who reminded the House of this. We're not talking about building, we're just talking about terms. Thirdly, as far as costs are concerned, the rule is more than clear: there is no need for cover, because the relative expenditure is already included in current expenditure. The objections that have been made, I regret to say, but they have probably been brought by those who do not practice the profession of lawyer because lawyers know that Article 157, paragraph 8-a allows notifications by electronic means directly to the defender after the first notification has been made. Therefore, since the first notification must be made by hand - and that is already included in the current expenditure - it is obvious that any subsequent notifications will be made in a telematic way and therefore at very low costs. Again, as far as the constitutional guarantees that have been evoked are concerned, I am pleased to find that the members of the Democratic Party today declare themselves to be guarantors. I have to say, we haven't noticed in the last 20 years. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] Better this way, changing your mind is a symptom of intelligence, but on guaranteeing we do not accept lessons from anyone. The time limits shall be suspended for all parties, including defence terms (see appeal and whatever). As regards the identification of the dies a quo from which the suspension of the time limits takes place, it seemed to me that the text was sufficiently clear because it is clear that the dies a quo starts from the date of entry into force of the rule, as for all the rules. However, for the sake of greater security - since it is a work of mercy to advise the doubters - we have decided to highlight this aspect on an agenda, which was presented on yesterday's date, from which it is clear that the terms are suspended from the date of entry into force of the decree-law. I repeat, it is not a substantive rule, because it was already clear from the text of the measure that we are going to approve. We have taken the view that an indication of the opposition, in particular that of Senator Cucca, raised in the Commission and, on the agenda, we have also asked the Government to report, within eighteen months of the date of conversion into law of the decree-law, on the basis of the statistical data in its possession, the number of suspended criminal proceedings and those which have occurred so that this House, and in general Parliament, can continue to monitor the situation. I do not intend to respond to provocations from those who are today talking about the arrogance of power and so on. Colleagues, there is no arrogance here; we are trying to put pieces on 20-year-old disasters. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] We are trying to meet the legitimate needs of the citizens of Apulia, who have the right to celebrate criminal trials in a room worthy of the rituality and importance that criminal proceedings must have, in the dignity and respect that everyone deserves anyway; especially the practitioners of justice, the defendants, the lawyers and the magistrates. [[Applause from the L-SP Group.]] In conclusion, we have tabled the G100 agenda and are referring to the text, which we are asking for to be voted on and approved exactly as dismissed by the House of Deputies. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u19	I call the representative of the Government, and I would also ask him to give his opinion on the G100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u20	The Government accepts the G100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u21	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote on the G100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u24	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I have decided to speak in order to vote in favour of the rapporteur's G100 agenda, and I would like to explain the reasons which seem to me to be very important. First, however, a little'stick', because it is certainly not possible to intervene on this measure without reminding the majority of the opposition of the Democratic Party which, even better than what was done in general debate, will reiterate during the examination of the amendments. Above all, there is still a series of doubts, as it is right for each of the Members sitting in the House and Senate, on which I think it is correct for the majority to give answers which, until now, have not arrived either here or during the examination by the other branch of Parliament. They are doubtful about the person who owns the property, who is the subject of this rent; doubts about how to behave in relation to open procedures; how to communicate the move to those 60,000 people subject to open procedures. There are doubts, above all, about what the annual rental cost is supposed to be: 1.2 million euros compared to the fact that the purchase of the property, made recently, is 4.1 million. As a rule, a rent is equivalent to seven percent of the value of the property per year; here we are talking about an enormously higher figure. All these doubts remain with us, thus testifying to the extremely negative judgment of the Democratic Party. Having said that, the 'carrot', which is correct and which supports our explanation of vote in favour, is that the rapporteur's agenda is important because it points to a need proposed by the Democratic Party and, above all, it establishes a principle that will become part of parliamentary practice. We are, of course, pleased that the majority and the government agree to commit themselves to making an ex post evaluation after they take a legislative measure. Therefore, they agree on the fact that laws are based on concrete, substantial, facts and analysis, and that after making laws and choices, an ex post evaluation is made of the impact they have produced. I think this is an important and consistent act with the fact that the Senate has equipped itself with a new office, the Impact Assessment Office (UVI), which makes it one of the most innovative rooms, removing the perception, typical and present in all Italians, that Parliament makes the laws without measuring the impact. We have an instrument, the Impact Assessment Office, which measures the impact of public policies on citizens and territories. I believe that the act of the majority to accept the Democratic Party's proposal to make an ex post evaluation leaves in parliamentary practice an element from which we do not go back. With the knowledge of the instrument - we cannot make an impact assessment for everything - we will ask for the impact assessment for all the measures for which, from the conceptual and scientific point of view, it can be done. I would like and, indeed, I am aware - and I am convinced that I also have the support of President Calderoli, precisely because of his infinite esteem and respect for the institutional value of this House - that the majority will follow us and that, above all, it will enable us to consolidate this practice. The practice - I repeat - that when you make a policy, when you make a choice or you promote a law, you do so taking into account facts and going to measure the ex post facts that this choice has produced. For all these reasons, I repeat the Democratic Party's vote in favour of the G100 agenda. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u27	VITALI (FI-BP). Mr President, we shall be voting in favour of the G100 agenda because it introduces a technique and a method of verification by Parliament which satisfies us. We cannot fail to note, however, that the majority and the government have also made the figure of the fox. In fact, the agenda, which certainly gives the opposition and Parliament an instrument of verification, hides a defiance of the Government and the majority, which did not want to remedy in the course of discussion either the House or the Senate. In essence, with amendment 1.3 we asked for the date of 30 September 2018 to be inserted and crystallised, by which the proceedings were to be deemed suspended. The Government and the majority did not accept this amendment of common sense and included a reference to the date of 30 September 2018. Apart from the fact that the rule is one thing and the agenda is another, we will vote in favour of the G100 agenda both because there is such innovation and because it is rather because nothing is better than better.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u28	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on the G100 agenda, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Ladies and gentlemen, the Presidency, in accordance with what has already been established during the examination in the referee, declares that, pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, amendments 1.0.2 and 1.0.4, with fiscal measures in favour of the members of the Bar Association, as they are unrelated to the subject matter of the decree-law under consideration, which instead contains urgent measures to ensure the regular conduct of criminal proceedings at the Bari court.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u29	Mr President, I know that this speech is useless, but I also do so, because there is a need for tenacity in life: sooner or later it will have some effect. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Casini]] Gentlemen of the Government, friends and colleagues of the majority, the Union of Italian Criminal Chambers has defined the decree-law in question as a set of interventionist absurdity and careless interventionism, saying that it determines thousands or tens of thousands of notifications and that it will prescribe many trials. It does not provide for any financial burden and has clear elements of unconstitutionality. We invite you once again to reflect. You are still in time to stop and not complete this design that, instead of solving the problem, will aggravate it. We therefore ask the House to vote in favour of the deletion of Rule 1. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u30	The subject has already been put: it is a diction, a literal formulation that can only lead to an incorrect interpretation. In the decree-law it is said that, on the date of September 30, pending trials will take advantage of the suspension of the terms. The problem is that the pending processes certainly refer to the date of entry into force of the decree-law, i.e. 22 June 2018, while all those who survive from 22 June 2018 to 30 September would not find the possibility to be suspended. This is evident from a literal point of view. Let us say that the rapporteur and the government have included in the report a step in which it is said that the processes that have taken place during this period must be interpreted as having occurred. The rapporteur has also included on the agenda a passage whereby the suspension must also be dealt with in relation to the processes that follow on that date. However, I remember that the agenda commits the Government; instead, those who interpret the law are the magistrates, the legal practitioners and the lawyers. Of course, they will also be able to make use of this agenda, but - I repeat - the literal interpretation is that the processes which take place between 22 June and 30 September, i.e. those which have taken place, would not be allowed to suspend the time limits. That is why we have proposed amendment 1.4, which we are calling for to be voted on. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u31	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u32	I am against all the amendments to Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u33	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u34	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Vitali and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u35	I would ask for the vote and I would like to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u37	VITALI (FI-BP). Mr President, this amendment seeks to correct the absurdities of the decree-law by bringing back the role of special commissioner and thus the possibility of foreseeing times, ways and routes to arrive at the normalization of the judicial situation of the district of Bari. It is truly incomprehensible how the majority opposes an amendment which takes note of a particular, difficult and emerging situation, albeit not extraordinary, and seeks to provide an objective and adequate solution, taking into account also the requests made by all the audit organisations. It really seems paradoxical not to think that in a city like Bari there are not at least twenty or thirty options, between barracks, university premises and whatever else, to adequately resolve this phenomenon. We therefore insist on the vote and ask that we vote in favour of Amendment 1.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u40	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, we very much agree with what Senator Vitali has just said. In fact, the title of this measure should also be followed up with this amendment, because it would finally come to grips with the problem of judicial construction and the premises would be found, as Senator Vitali has already said, in order to allow for the proper and orderly conduct of criminal proceedings. It is clear that the vote can only be in favour. Instead of remaining inert, as seems to have been done up to now, because as soon as we talk about judicial construction it seems that we talk about who knows what and you absolutely do not want to address the issue (as if the issue were to be addressed in the family, without any discussion), in this way we would allow, knowing the procedure to follow, to identify those buildings where the judicial activity could resume to take place orderly. I remember that everything is still right now because the famous tensile structures have already been dismantled. Therefore, our vote can only be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u41	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Vitali and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u44	VITALI (FI-BP). Mr President, let us withdraw this amendment. As you can see, we are an intransigent opposition, but of common sense and not obstructionist. The subject has been introduced, almost fortuitously, on the agenda, so we withdraw Amendment 1.3 because it is unnecessary to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u45	The Presidency takes note of this. On Amendment 1.4, the 5th Commission gave its opinion subject to a rewording on which I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views. Mr Pellon, rapporteur. I am against it. Mr Morrone, State Secretary for Justice. Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.4 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u48	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I have already expressed my doubts about the fact that the agenda is addressed and the Government is committed, while the law will have to interpret it as judges, legal practitioners and lawyers. So it doesn't seem to me that the medium used is functional to solve the interpretative problem.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u51	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, here too we must reiterate that this is a common sense amendment. We understand the reasons for urgency, we understand everything, but we cannot confuse a obstructive activity with what instead leads us to put some order in a system that is being introduced and that will certainly produce only disorder. Clarity, when it comes to interpreting rules of law, especially on a hot topic such as criminal law, would certainly be of great benefit. I therefore believe that it is necessary to make clear, so as not to leave any interpretative doubts to the magistrates or, in any case, to the technicians of the law, as President Grasso has authoritatively said. We therefore vote in favour of amendment 1.4 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u52	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4 (text 2), tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u55	VITALI (FI-BP). Mr President, Amendment 1.5, which we repeat for the umpteenth time, is aimed at avoiding the possibility that procedural documents may be declared null due to investigations carried out during the suspension period provided for in Article 1 (1) of the measure. In essence, it must be clarified whether or not preliminary investigations can be carried out during the period in question; in the absence of this clarification - alas - we fear that the processes will be paralysed, in the fear that acts exposed to the danger of being declared useless. We know that today's statements and speeches in this House are in vain, but we want to certify them and leave them to the record because tomorrow we can call them back to our justification for not having participated in this schizophrenic legislation.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u58	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, once again we share the reasoning of Senator Vitali; once again, a common sense reasoning that removes the interpretative doubts. There will certainly be magistrates who will interpret the norms contained in the provision in one way and others who will interpret them in another, thus implementing a clear difference of treatment towards the people (and never will the citizens doubt that these unequal treatment are consequent to consciously and knowingly made choices). We are simply trying to make a contribution so that the content of the decree-law in question is interpreted unequivocally by the parties to interpret and apply the rules. This is therefore also a common sense amendment. We therefore announce the PD's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u59	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Vitali and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.6, which is identical to Amendment 1.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u62	VITALI (FI-BP). Mr President, as we have said in general debate, Amendment 1.6 calls for the deletion of the reference to Article 159 of the Criminal Code. It has been noted by the audit organisations, but the Constitutional Court has also intervened several times to establish that the prescription is a substantial criminal institution and not criminal proceedings; it follows that the damage of a disservice of the judicial system to which they have not contributed cannot be attributed to the citizens. We therefore insist once again on the adoption of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u65	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, amendment 1.6 is identical to amendment 1.7, signed by members of the Democratic Party's Justice Commission. I am therefore referring to the assessments made by Mr Vitali and I am voting in favour of my Group on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u66	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.6, tabled by Senator Vitali and other senators, identical to Amendment 1.7, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u67	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u70	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, this amendment deals with a subject which I will also talk about later, namely notifications. Basically, this amendment tends to avoid those expenditures, which are also defined as minimal - I will explain later why they will not be so - even in the light of what my colleague, Mr Pillon, has said, which referred to Article 157 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It is true that the last paragraph of that article provides that notifications shall be made, in the event of the appointment of a defender of trust within the meaning of Article 96, by handing over to the defenders, but the defender may declare that he does not accept such notification. I wonder, therefore, which lawyer can accept a notification by hand, when the code allows him to extend his time in the interests of his assistant. Therefore such notifications will certainly not be accepted. This amendment also seeks to remedy this problem by saying that, if possible, all notifications will have to be made by electronic means and only by residual means, when it is actually impossible to make them in any other way, they will have to be made by hand or by post. Once again, this is a common sense amendment, which is clearly rejected on urgent grounds in the adoption of the measure. We shall of course pay the consequences of this later when we are here, after 30 September, to discuss a measure which is identical to the one we are discussing. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u71	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.8, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1.9.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u74	VITALI (FI-BP). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 1.9, because it was in fact absorbed by an amendment approved by the House of Members and therefore the vote on this amendment would be absolutely superfluous.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u77	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 1.10.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u78	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.11.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u81	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this amendment by the Democratic Party, which calls for the suspension not to work for procedures relating to prevention measures. The motivation is clear and it is quite clear: the prevention measures are aimed at preventing certain people from committing further crimes. These are persons who are considered not to be in place with the justice system and are therefore afraid that they will be able to commit further crimes or criminal acts. It is therefore considered that they should be subject to prevention measures and more police checks and also to certain obligations, which are incumbent on the person concerned, such as the obligation to sign. Such measures, as their name indicates, are aimed at preventing the fulfillment of crimes. It is therefore requested that the suspension should not operate for such proceedings, but that they should continue regardless of the suspension measure, precisely in order to prevent the commission of new offences. It is therefore a measure to combat crime, but it seems to me that this proposal for an amendment is also not being heard. We continue to do this: we also suspend the procedures relating to prevention measures and continue to ensure that people do so. which should be subject to such measures, continue to act and live freely. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u82	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u83	I would ask for the vote and I would like to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u85	VITALI (FI-BP). The Minister or the territorially competent prefect indicated by the Minister shall be given extraordinary powers in order to ensure, from 30 September, the smooth conduct of criminal proceedings and trials. We only say that for the benefit of the Reports, because we know that the ears of both the majority and the Government have now clogged, but not those of the citizens outside who control the work of the parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u88	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, I rise on this and on the subsequent amendment, which I believe is essentially similar, not to say identical in content. As I said earlier, this is about finally getting to grips with the problem of finding buildings and trying to speed up the time. We do not understand why, when it comes to finding the buildings to be used in judicial offices, the subject becomes taboo. This, of course, raises doubts about the procedures that will be followed. There is even a question here of turning to public evidence procedures, precisely in order to give real support to the Bari judicial apparatus, which needs to resume its activity, not suspension of which we will certainly be debating after 30 September in this House for the extension of this measure. This also means such a measure: to put serious and urgent hand to the problems of the Bari court. It seems, however, that we do not want to do this. The vote will therefore be in favour of this amendment and also the following.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u89	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.1, tabled by Senator Vitali and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Senator Bossi Umberto points out to the Presidency that he is not in possession of the card.]] This vote has now been taken, Senator Bossi. Pending the receipt of your card, we move on to amendment 1.0.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.3 tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.0.2 and 1.0.4 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u90	Mr President, let us return to the subject of notifications. There are tens of thousands of notifications to be made and we have heard and read on the reports of the House's parliamentary work that the Government would respond to this exception by saying that there are notifications with the JEP. Since we are talking about criminal and non-civil matters and I am a criminal lawyer, in my life I have never found any of my assistants who are equipped with certified mail, so the JEP is probably good for the prosecutor, it is good for the defense lawyer, but it is difficult to find it for the injured parties and, above all, for the accused. Shall we, then, predict a cover? We are giving you a contribution, we are giving you a help, we are giving you a suggestion, we are making available to you the daily practical experience we have gained in the field and you continue to say that you will be able to make notifications in the same forms and manners in which it is done in normal times. I know the situation of Bari's judicial offices, which is no different from that of other judicial offices in the country, where there is a pathological shortage in the staff of judicial officers and chancellors, who cannot do the work normally in time of peace; yet you charge them with this work and you think they can carry it out. Evidently, you agree with someone to have the trials prescribed, there is no other explanation. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u91	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u92	I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u93	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u94	Let us move on to Amendment 2.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u95	I would ask for the vote and I would like to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u97	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, I noticed that you had trouble seeing me, but there is also this part of the House. I understand there's a little allergy, but we're here too. I must repeat once again what Mr Vitali has said. There is a very serious problem with notifications. Senator Vitali concluded his speech with a serious statement, but, unfortunately, acceptable (I also mentioned it earlier). The point is one. As I said earlier, recalling Article 157 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is totally unnecessary. Those familiar with courtrooms (and many colleagues in the majority have a lot of them) are perfectly aware of the number of trials that are prescribed precisely because of the nullity of notifications and omitted notifications. Recalling the contents of article 157, last paragraph, of the Code of Criminal Procedure to argue that, however, notifications can be made to the defender via PEC means ignoring what happens every day in the judicial offices. In fact, the defender systematically refuses to receive these notifications, for two very simple reasons. First, he has no interest in receiving them in order to protect the customer's position and, secondly, because this would increase the activities to be carried out for his study. In fact, the lawyer would in turn be obliged to communicate to the lawyer, which he instead leaves to the State refusing to receive the notification, in the interest of the lawyer who made the appointment of the defender of office. Therefore, once again the amendment is of common sense, but, unfortunately, in this case too, it seems that we do not want to accept any of the comments made to improve the measure. We will vote in favour, although we know that the amendment will not be accepted. We wish, however, that our position remains in the act, so that we can say that we did not participate in this disaster.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u98	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Vitali and other senators, until the words "pairs to" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.2 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u101	VITALI (FI-BP). Mr President, I do not speak on the amendment, because I am tired of speaking in vain in this House. But I promise you, this isn't over. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u102	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.3, tabled by Senator Vitali and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u105	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, we are all aware of the serious problems of Bari's courthouse, which hosted the offices of the prosecutor and the criminal court. For these critical issues, a decree-law to suspend the terms of criminal proceedings and proceedings has now been adopted. We, the Free and Equal Members of the Mixed Group, learned this criticalness and immediately asked a parliamentary question to urge urgent action. This is true, but, to be honest, we wanted legislative measures aimed at identifying a suitable public forum for continuing to hold regular hearings and not, as has been the case, drastic interventions on procedural deadlines. The building that has so far hosted justice in Bari - I also know for having personally attended it in my previous judicial function - has never had the security and decor that a palace of justice should have: few classrooms compared to the size of the trials, very small gates and difficulties for those who worked there even to archive the files; the rooms where the prisoners were in custody divided by other environments by plasterboard walls; insufficient toilets; infiltrations of water from the roof and sewage from the subsoil. The picture was absolutely unbecoming for a place of the State, a palace of justice that should be a symbol, first of all, of security, of legality and - why not - of health. The judicial history of the palace of the Bari court does not represent, therefore, a novelty of these days, having begun more than fifteen years ago. The problems of the structure, in fact, had already emerged from the first advice prepared by the proxy in the context of the investigation for building abuse that, a few years ago, had involved the builders. The trial ended with conviction at first instance and limitation on appeal; the same fate had the following procedure, for fraud in public supplies. Therefore, the court of Bari can only be the sad epilogue of a tragedy announced. The situation of the structure, with dangerous premises, not able to guarantee safety and public safety, the degradation of the offices and the state of absolute absence of maintenance were therefore known for years, and not only through judicial events, but also through numerous complaints and reports. The structural checks carried out have rightly led the administrative authorities responsible to the decree of a clearance order. In front of everyone there are images: the images of audiences held in the tent cities. This is the image, that of a palace synonymous with decay of the service of justice that reaches the citizen, an image that falls on the entire judicial system. One point, however, is fundamental and applies not only to Bari, but to all the palaces of justice. The instability of the court building must in no way have a negative impact on the speed of proceedings and on the justice to be guaranteed to citizens. The whole of the capital goods and documents necessary for the exercise of judicial functions involve interests of constitutional importance and, therefore, cannot be suddenly interrupted. On the merits, the measure suspends until 30 September 2018 the terms of the criminal proceedings pending on the date of entry into force of Decree-Law No 73 of 22 June 2018 before the Bari court and the prosecutor of the Republic at the same court. In paragraph 1 of Article 1, however, the words "criminal proceedings pending" are improperly used. In order to avoid any interpretation it would have been necessary (and for this reason we have tabled an amendment, but it has not been approved) to make explicit that the content of the decree-law refers not only to the proceedings and trials pending on the date of the decree, but also to those which occurred until the date of 30 September 2018. This clarification is currently contained in the explanatory report, but is not explicit in the article of the decree-law. The House was also asked to insert this change but, even there, we do not understand why the measure has not been modified. In my opinion, therefore, it is not enough for an agenda to resolve the question of interpretation because, as I have already said, the agenda commits the Government, but the interpretation of the law is up to the judges and the practitioners of justice. And since there are also consequences on prescription, it is clear that these are legal issues that can actually be posed. As far as possible, from the point of view of the organization we certainly hope that Bari's case will not be repeated again and that the whole problem of judicial construction will be solved as soon as possible, because there is no slowness of justice but an absolute lack of justice. There is a complete lack of jurisdiction over the territory. This is unacceptable, because it creates in Bari an unequal treatment of citizens who have the misfortune of having a judicial slope in that very court. In addition, there are significant doubts as to the constitutional legitimacy of the measure under consideration. In the past such a drastic measure - we are talking about harming constitutionally guaranteed rights - as the suspension of procedural terms by decree-law has been adopted in extreme cases such as natural disasters. When the proceedings start again, the judicial machinery will be severely slowed down, as if it were not already slow enough in general, with serious consequences that run counter to the principles of fair trial, reasonable trial duration, right to defence. The suspension of criminal proceedings will therefore have inevitable consequences which conflict with constitutional principles (Articles 2, 3, 24 and 111 of the Constitution). Another concern arises from the fact that the deadline set for 30 September is also likely to be extended, given the events still to be deepened regarding the place to transfer the court. Would intervening on procedural deadlines, suspending time limits and proceedings be the solution to judicial paralysis? It is almost paradoxical, given that only to make the 60,000 notifications estimated by the Bari court as a result of the measure will it take a long time, very personal - even a task force has been mentioned - and much activity on the part of the offices. It is difficult to imagine all this without any greater burden on public finance because these activities have a cost. A technical opinion identified the cost of the operation in EUR 60,000, but we think it will be much higher. (at 10:52 a.m.) (Following Grasso). In addition, all persons audited in the Chamber's Commission, including the court's own legal practitioners - judges, lawyers, chancellors - unanimously expressed a firm opposition to these measures. Perhaps it would have been more appropriate to have the powers to intervene at a logistical level, to immediately identify a proper place to continue all judicial activities. In conclusion, this measure only prolongs the process and we believe that it will also be the subject of numerous appeals to the Constitutional Court. For these reasons I announce the vote against the Free Group and Equal to the conversion into law of the decree-law under consideration. [[Applause from the Misto-Leu Group and Senator Cucca.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u108	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Brothers of Italy Group will vote against this measure because, beyond the substance, we regret to have to note that the Government has remained deaf, and with it the majority, to all the proposals for improvement that have come not only at this second reading, but already at first reading in the House, where it would have been even easier to accept them, which have come from various parts of the opposition that, beyond the substance, have tried at least to intervene with proposals for improvement in the legislative technique. This is not only a measure which, as has been widely demonstrated during the wide-ranging debate and examination of the amendments tabled this morning, gives rise to serious doubts about substance, law and even constitutionality, but also leaves a great deal to be desired in terms of legislative technique. It is surprising that even on this level, with an incomprehensible closure attitude, the Government and the majority wanted to listen to those from around the world who were trying at least to limit the damage and improve what could be improved. As has already been pointed out by several parties, this is a measure that agrees - more unique than rare case - all the practitioners of justice: lawyers, magistrates and administrative staff. They all agree that this measure will do more harm than those which, in the abstract and on a purely theoretical level, are intended to resolve. There was not, most likely, the urgency provided for in the Constitution to intervene in this matter. Many have already recalled that the problems of the Bari court were certainly not born yesterday: they are not a consequence of an earthquake or a flood, an extraordinary and unpredictable event and not even a natural event. They are the result of administrative and managerial inability of those who had to worry about the administration of justice in Bari and the decent and dignified instruments in order to exercise the important judicial function. Well, for these reasons we believe it is absolutely wrong to provide for the suspension of procedural time limits, but, even more so, to intervene also in the matter of limitation and suspension. As everyone has said, the prescription is a substantial institution, not a procedural one and - as I said just now - has so far been suspended in our legal system only in extraordinary cases: I remember the case of the earthquakes of Emilia-Romagna or L'Aquila, very serious cases that have nothing to do with the case under consideration. The rapporteur wondered why the objections were so heated: at the end of the day, it is only a three-month suspension, one of which is already provided for in the current legislation as a suspension of working time. Well, that's the point. There was no need for such a short suspension to intervene in this way. We could very well intervene by giving extraordinary powers to the prefect, as the amendments asked unnecessarily, just rejected by the majority and the government. We remain convinced that the measure before us does not even have the necessary financial cover. We remain convinced that notifications will necessarily have to be carried out - beyond what the rapporteur says - and will entail high costs and major increases of both time and money borne by the administration, with the consequence - as many have explained better than I in the course of the general discussion - that many criminal proceedings will end prescribed, despite the suspension arranged with the measure under consideration. I hope that I am wrong, but I am convinced - like many who have spoken before me - that in three months' time, two months' time, on 30 September, the problems will be far from resolved and Parliament will have to go back to dealing with the matter, in order - hopefully then - to put the chunks in the text that unfortunately did not want to be put here. For these reasons, the Brothers of Italy Group will vote strongly against it. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u111	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, the PD Group does not agree with the content of the measure which this House is about to adopt today, obviously with the force of the numbers. However, we have a healthy habit of respecting the force of numbers and, therefore, democratic rules. It must be noted that the title of this measure is already the result of a suggestion. There is talk of urgent and indisputable measures to ensure the orderly and orderly conduct of criminal proceedings and trials during the period necessary to allow judicial building operations. What is the content of the measure? It is to suspend the proceedings: other than to ensure the smooth running! We suspend them; we stop them, provisionally, but we stop them, and on a provisional date we will be able to return to them in the future, when the measure will return for the extension or perhaps be included in the thousand extensions. We are all aware that nothing will happen in two months, partly because we saw this morning that all the amendments intended to give a response in the field of judicial construction and to find the buildings were rejected by a majority. There is therefore no will and, in order to ensure the smooth and orderly conduct of the processes, we suspend them. More orderly than that: nothing is done and there is no more talk of it. It is therefore permissible to ask how to ensure the smooth running, since the decree-law contains only the suspension. The measure, far from achieving the objective stated in the title, which - I repeat - is suggestive, will produce a damage that has already been well evidenced by those who preceded me. The President of the Bari Court, at the hearing, stated that the damage that will occur could be absorbed over a period of no less than ten years. I would also like to point out that I greatly appreciated the presentation of the agenda, which came out after we had repeatedly asked for the impact assessment of this measure. Today there has been an agenda: it is already something, it is a very small step forward, at least because in eighteen months we will have the opportunity to know here the damage that the measure will have caused. And we have noted above all that the Government issues decree-laws on such a delicate matter, suspending the proceedings, without having made the slightest evaluation of what they will produce. That's the sure thing. We are told that they were not in a position to give the impact assessment. We now have the certainty that the Government issues decree-laws without knowing probably what will happen following their application. 11:02 a.m. (Follow CUCCA). There was a request on the agenda that had been made repeatedly; it was better late than ever, but it is certainly not enough. In fact, it is not in this way that we are dealing with such sensitive issues as the situation in which the Bari Court stands, which will be forced to deny justice because nothing can be done in this period. The citizens will have to be told, with the consequences we have already mentioned repeatedly, that they cannot give justice because there are no seats and all the proceedings are suspended. We have tried to offer our contribution to improve the decree-law, but we have always obtained a refusal that we can call a preliminary ruling. This will allow us, however, long before the winter season begins, to say that we had told you, although this will unfortunately be a bitter satisfaction with the serious damage that has occurred in the meantime in the judicial system of Bari. These worrying considerations have been carried out - as has already been said - by all judicial practitioners heard during the hearings held in the Chamber, but they have also remained dead letter. The Government intended to persevere and continue along a path that was not substantially shared by any of the legal practitioners within the territory of Bari. It is clear that this poses a problem to us in an attempt to understand the reasons why the measure goes on in this way. It is evident that to think that suspension solves the problems of regular and orderly conduct is a chimera. We must then ask the reasons and perhaps the observations that have been made earlier by some of our colleagues, particularly my colleague, Senator Vitali, I believe that they can actually be shared. Moreover, no one has explained to us how it is possible to touch the institution of prescription. We have repeatedly raised this problem, but no one has intended to answer it, telling us how retroactive effect can be given when we know that the institution of prescription - as the last speaker has already said - is a substantial institution and not a procedural one. Also this elementary argument, which is studied in the early years of the faculty of jurisprudence, was simply ignored by those who wrote the provision and especially by those who, having - as we know perfectly well - a solid cultural background on their shoulders, persist in this gross error. We therefore face the very serious problem and the very serious situation in the face of the people who said that it would be better to continue with the heat, with a very difficult climate situation, to do trials in the same structures rather than do nothing, as is now being done by suspending the processes, to ensure their smooth and orderly conduct. This is clearly a contradiction, which I must say is probably ridicule. It has been said that the suspension will operate for an extremely limited period. We all know - and we have said so many times - that this measure will never explain any concrete and beneficial effects, but it will increase the difficulties and discomfort of the Bari court and, unfortunately, it will be the subject - as I have already said - of extensions which will be repeated for a long time. With all this it is clear that we will move towards the prescription of many processes. And then it is said that we want to fight crime! We are moving away from measures of this kind, which, far from making a serious and concrete contribution to the resolution of Bari's problems, and therefore also from avoiding that the processes prescribe themselves, rather favour them widely. Therefore, the information concerning the identification of a property, which is clearly unsuitable for the purpose (as stated by all those who operate in the Bari court) is perhaps also true. Probably he simply wanted to take some time and offer a mirror for the lark, in order to divert the attention from the real project below to identify that room that - for the reasons we have already talked about - is kept under track for the moment. The acquisition and transfer project will instead be carried out during this period and then of course we will assess the damage that will have been the products. We of the PD however - we announce - will keep very high attention to the work of the Government on these issues and we will not hesitate to denounce operations that are carried out for who knows what hidden reasons, that moreover they will certainly not succeed - it has been said from the operators and I repeat it still - to solve the problem denounced that attacks the justice to Bari. This is, therefore, a measure which is certainly very optimistic to call unconcluded. It is in all its parts and will cause enormous damage, which we have denounced since today and of which the majority, deaf to any improvement proposal, will be called sooner or later - I believe very quickly - to respond. A final remark concerns economic commitment. We know perfectly well that notification is an issue that exists and that the late justification brought by the rapporteur is worth nothing, because - as I have already said - notifications will be demanded. The lawyer will claim that they are done directly to the defendants involved, because it is a customary practice and those who carry out the profession daily and attend the courtrooms have knowledge of the behavior that must be held in the interest of our clients in the courtrooms; he knows perfectly that the behavior is to favor the client and, therefore, the accused. Notifications will be rejected and this will result in the economic damage that has been mentioned: 60,000 notifications. It is therefore clear that the Democratic Party's vote can only be against [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u114	Mr Marti (L-SP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my explanation of vote will only take a few minutes, because - in advance that your vote will be in favour of this measure - it has very little to add to what our rapporteur, Mr Pillon, and all those who have spoken earlier have said. Some consideration may have to be made and the most important one is not to remember the thirty-six years of Bari's court history. Instead, I think I would like to thank the Government for not wanting to use any political instrument and exploit an affair that links Puglia and Bari, its capital, to fifteen years of inefficiency of the administrations that have followed over time: two years of the current president of the Regional Council, Michele Emiliano, who has been mayor of Bari for ten years, as well as magistrate of that prosecutor and of that court, and five years of the current mayor, who is also an engineer and has visited that court for four and a half years for institutional reasons, but who only a month ago realized the inagibility of a building. The most absurd thing is that part of this opposition - I am referring to Forza Italia, while I understand it with regard to PD - fails to bring out this type of problem and to thank the Government, Parliament and the majority of the Senate for putting a patch - as our rapporteur said. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Group) -]] to an age-old problem of the community of Puglia and the capital of the Region. We have only now realized the enormous flaws. We have now realized that this should not be done. We simply wanted to remove from a tension structure, Senator Vitali, his fellow lawyers, his fellow magistrates, the defendants who are entitled not to stand from 32 to 40 degrees under the sun [[Applause from the L-SP Group and Senator Giarrusso]] during this period of the year during the course of the trials. We did this without ever bringing up the really very important problem of judicial building that did not stick to this Government, but to the previous five years of government of the PD, which is linked to the two administrations and to the third of the current mayor. Therefore, I would have expected at least on your part - and I still expect this - a change of pace in the final vote that you will express in order to support the Government and this majority in giving dignity to those who, in the name of the Italian people, must be respected and removed from a tentopoly. [[Applause from the L-SP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u117	MODENA (FI-BP). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am now announcing the vote against, and I would like to ask the representative of the Government, who is here in this House, what Mr Bonafede has done in Bari. The political point of the decree-law in question is as follows: if you are aware that you are not in a position to solve a problem, and therefore you just make a decree messy from a legal point of view - then on this point I will return - it is better to be somewhere else. There is no need for Minister Bonafede to make the first or second public appearance of the stage entrance into the Tendopolis of Bari. At that moment the problem is no longer just the past, but becomes of the present government. What the magistrates and lawyers asked you - I'll tell you a bit about what came from the criminal chambers after the debate in the House - was not a suspension: they wanted a building. The Minister has gone to make a commitment to the Government to solve the problem, because it is the Government of change and, therefore, it must solve the problems of the past. I would ask you to close the phase in which the things you can't do are considered responsibilities of the past. What did the legal community of Bari ask of the Minister who went - in my opinion unwisely - to Bari? He asked to do the operation that the then minister Rutelli did when Bari's theater came down: in three days he had the Council of Ministers make an order to solve the problem through the identification of a commissioner. It is useless for citizens, legal practitioners, people who know the building situation, perhaps much better than us, to propose a postponement of the time limits when they are asking for a building. That is why - and I reply to the colleague of the League who is behind me - Forza Italia cannot vote on the measure under discussion, because one thing was asked of the Government and instead of giving what was asked, the Government said something like: "We'll talk about it in a while." I will tell you more and do so with strong awareness and apologizing for the partially personal reference. I believe that something like this, that is, going to a place and then approving a measure that says nothing, is a bit what Renzi has done for years; it is the reason why I - for example - set up committees in no throughout my region; it is the same style. Needless to say, there is a responsibility of the old man. The truth is that in the end, when it comes to solving concrete problems, what Renzi did and what this Government does are the same thing. I say this because I have heard colleagues screaming at the PD and the Democratic Party screaming at the League for two days. In my opinion, more or less the same thing has been done: the appearance in Bari has been made, nothing has been resolved and then we come here to discuss a rule that does not solve the problem. And I say that on the basis of a story that I think allows me to do. Someone asked why we're wasting all this time on a building issue. Bari - and I am not from those areas - is the ninth Municipality of Italy, the third in the South after Naples and Palermo, a beautiful east gate to the East and to the Middle East, as well as a cradle of lawyers of extraordinary level: think that they sell the legal books in the newsstands. The Bari affair is a dangerous precedent not only for all the issues that Mr Vitali has already explained with elegance and also with great competence. The issue is extremely important and tragic as a precedent for the simple reason that today we are in a position to say that, when there is a building problem, we have a suspension and we do not solve that problem. This means that, if there is - as may happen - a case of inadmissibility, analysis is stopped and not because there has been an earthquake - as my colleagues, Mr Minuti and Mr Damiani rightly pointed out yesterday - but because we do not know what to do and we are looking for a solution for the next three months. A colleague also said that perhaps it is people who are not lawyers who have not understood the strategic importance of the decree-law under consideration. But that is not true, because lawyers and magistrates have always written to the House and the Senate to make it clear that, before the suspension of the trials, they were sending back precisely because they allowed the salvation of the terms. This is a technical point, and those in the trade know very well that it is better to make the postponement than to suspend everything. They didn't want the suspension, because they found the solution on their own. They wanted a place because - as Mrs Damiani and Mrs Minuti rightly pointed out yesterday - the problem has been known for fifteen years. Then there is the previous Rotelli, with the story of the theater, which is why - I repeat and insist - perhaps not centered as much as the citizens of Bari wanted. Having said that, I think Senator Vitali is right in saying that, when a majority is so deaf, one must ask why. He gave two possible explanations and gave colleagues the benefit of the doubt, saying that perhaps they are so because they are novices, but in the end he also said that they may have interests. This we will discover by doing, but I believe that the vote in favour of the decree-law under consideration by Forza Italia is absolutely not possible and, therefore, we declare our vote against. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u120	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the theater of absurdity has been staged in this House and we have reached the point of saying that there are no reasons for urgency to intervene in a situation in which justice was shamefully reduced under the curtains, it was a disaster! [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] It is no surprise to us to hear the arguments of Forza Italia and PD and to see the two Groups who are right. We have seen this for five years in the last legislature, and the Italians have seen this axis for 20 years. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups. Lively comments from the PD Group]] MALPEZZI (PD). You agree with the League! FARAONE (PD). With the League! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I think you can end a senator without commenting, right Senator Pharaoh? Will you give it to us? Thank you. GIARRUSSO (M5S). On what, ladies and gentlemen, did the two groups have a clear understanding in this House? MALPEZZI (PD). Speak for yourself! Look who you're ruling with! GIARRUSSO (M5S). On two issues that have had so much to heart in the last twenty years in our country. The first is that of the extraordinary commissioners: a real passion to violate all the rules of law! [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] That's what you asked. Shame! [[Protests from the PD Group]] FARAONE (PD). Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giarrusso, please maintain a dignified attitude and address yourself to the Presidency. Be courteous. MALPEZZI (PD). Talk about your program! [[Comments from Senators Laus and Marcucci.]] GIARRUSSO (M5S). We know there wasn't one... [[Senator Pharaoh's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u121	Senator Giarrusso, I won't let you continue. Wait a minute. If the House allows you to continue your speech... [[Senator Pharaoh's comments.]] Senator Giarrusso has already been filmed. Senator Pharaoh, should I take you back? I call on all of you to lower your voices to make Senator Giarrusso speak, to whom I ask you to maintain a worthy tone and vocabulary of this House and to address the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u122	Mr President, there has not been a single Commissioner's management in the history of the last twenty years that has not ended up in court and as we know, because the police administration serves to bypass all the rules of law. [[Senator Modena's comments.]] My colleagues put their hearts at peace: the Government and the majority want to respect the rules of law and do not want to derogate from them: they do not intend to do so. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] MALPEZZI (PD). Suspend citizens' rights! GIARRUSSO (M5S). We have opposed all the commissioners that you proposed in the last parliamentary term and we will not consistently use them and we will not abuse them as you have done: never! [[Comments from the PD Group]] Let's talk about the second passion that unites you, that is underlying this debate, that otherwise would be surreal and incomprehensible for an intervention that - as Senator Pillon, with much calm and correctness explained - is normal. No: there is an unsaid that is expressed in the speeches, which is the great passion for the prescription that you have of the old majority, of the old axis that has broken this country. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] Trouble touching the prescription! FARAONE (PD). Stop it! [[Comments from Senator Bellanova.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). Think about the rents! GIARRUSSO (M5S). The rise of shields and the axis we have seen in this House have only one reason: we have touched the taboo that must be untouchable, namely the prescription. Woe to touch her! [[Comments from Senator Bellanova.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u123	Senator Bellanova, forgive me, but there is no need for a continuous intercourse with Senator Giarrusso.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u124	BELLANOVA (PD). You don't have to allow the charges!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u125	...not even a conversation with me. Please let Senator Giarrusso finish. It does not seem to me that nothing has been said, and I am going to call on the senators who have an attitude who do not agree with this House. I must proceed to a formal call or Senators quaestors can kindly allow... [[Comments of Senators Pharaoh, Malpezzi and Bellanova]] I am listening to Senator Giarrusso and I have no reason to call him back, except for your interruptions. FARAONE (PD). No, no, no! BELLANOVA (PD). Giarrusso must talk about the contents! FARAONE (PD). It's shameful! Provoca! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pharaoh, I do not allow you to say that I am partial. If you maintain a proper attitude in this House, we can end this speech. Can I give the senator the floor again? Thank you. FARAONE (PD). A proper attitude must keep him! (Exchange of jokes between Senator Puglia and Senator Bellanova). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator! Senator Pharaoh, I call you to order, too. I don't want to go on a second call! Please, Senator Giarrusso, continue. GIARRUSSO (M5S). Well, after appreciating the democracy of the former majority... RAMPI (PD). That's enough! You're the majority! GIARRUSSO (M5S). We continue to express our firm, consistent position... RAMPI (PD). It's unbelievable, but you rule! MALPEZZI (PD). Unbelievable indeed! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, please. If I may call everyone back, if you continue to disturb the session. BELLANOVA (PD). You're the president! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bellanova, I am perfectly able to understand the words of Senator Giarrusso and to play my role impartially. I called her back a first time. I ask you kindly to put an end to the work with an attitude that fits your role. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] Please, Senator Giarrusso.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u126	Thank you, President. I believe that what has been done by our government is what our country has always expected: a normal intervention, according to the rules, that does not benefit anyone, as Senator Pillon well explained... MALPEZZI (PD). You're suspending. GIARRUSSO (M5S). ...that puts everyone in a position to have access to justice in a dignified manner, because it is not dignified to manage justice in tents, as you have done with your twenty-year shortcomings, because you have put justice in these conditions. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] MALPEZZI (PD). The curtains! [[Senator Pharaoh's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u127	Senator Marcucci, I'm addressing you. How can I ask your colleagues to end the senator? I cannot listen to continuous interruptions on the word "rules", forgive me. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] On the word "rules" there are interruptions. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups. Comments of Senator Pharaoh]] Senator Marcucci, I would kindly ask you, as the Parent Company, to invite your colleagues to conclude this debate. Is that possible? Please, Senator Giarrusso.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u128	Thank you, Mr President. In conclusion, I believe that this House will vote on a normal measure. This will be the figure of this majority and of this Government: there will be normal acts, dictated by logic and common sense and not acts that can give rise to what we have seen in the past, whose effects we are trying to contain and repair. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Many congratulations]] Mr Marcucci (PD). Shame!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u129	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups, whose senators stand up. The choirs are raised from the PD and FI-BP groups: Shame, shame, shame! and Honestness, honesty, honesty! Senator Pharaoh's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u132	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I should like to point out to the Presidency that it is possible to keep order, as is right. That is your role and we thank you for doing so in an appropriate and appropriate manner. However, I would point out to the President that in this House, a few sittings ago, a 5 Star Movimento senator, has not only attacked and insulted, but also threatened one of our colleagues. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I have asked for measures which have not yet been taken. In this House, Senator Airola has insulted and threatened one of our colleagues. So let's start with everyone's behavior and not just those of the Democratic Party on a shameful measure that you wanted to approve today, in spite of the law and legality! [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u133	Senator, Marcucci, as you know, your request has already been brought before the President of the Senate. Mine was a request for collaboration with the Parent Company, in a perfect condition of respect for roles. I have allowed myself to ask you for the courtesy of helping us to have a dignified and respectful attitude in this House, both of the Presidency and of our colleagues. MARGIOTTA (PD). We will act as you did in the last parliamentary term! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I didn't ask for your intervention. I'm talking to the Parent Company. Thank you for contributing. The sitting is suspended. It will resume at 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.36 p.m. and resumed at 15.02 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u134	The next item is the immediate question time (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Education, University and Research will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. [[The PD Group senators stand up and show the magazine "Christian Family" and shout: "Go back! Go back!"]] No, no! I find it uncivilized! Get those things out of here now. I beg the quaestors to intervene. I'm suspending live television. [[Comments from the PD Group]] It might be nice for someone, but I don't like it at all. FARAONE (PD). Minister, come here and take the photos! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please! I don't accept that way of dealing. The shows we reserve for other venues. COLLINA (PD). You can't take pictures in the Chamber! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Petris has the right to explain question 3-00127 on administrative indications for less cases of recognition of international protection, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u135	Mr President, I renew a question already made yesterday during the work of the 1st Commission to Mr Salvini, which concerns precisely the circular sent by the Minister on 4 July, then taken up by a formal note sent on 16 July 2018 by the President for the National Commission for the Right of Asylum, in which the Commissioners of the territorial commissions are asked to comply with the procedures for assessing applications for international protection, in particular with regard to questions whose outcome is humanitarian protection. Referring to her circular, Minister, the prefect calls for an improbable and necessary change to the trend of the recognition of humanitarian protection, expressly indicating a request for a reduction, for a reduction of the recognition of humanitarian protection. Minister, when I asked you yesterday about the circular, you referred to statements by the Supreme Court on the residual nature of humanitarian protection. Minister, I think you are absolutely aware of the fact that there is a strong orientation of the Supreme Court (cf. 4139 of 2011, 6879 of 2011, 24544 of 2011, 22111 of 2014) according to which it is clearly said that the form of humanitarian protection is residual, in the sense that it is placed at the closure of the system of international protection, and is strictly anchored - this also in the judgment of 2018 - to one of the forms of implementation of the constitutional law of asylum. This means that it is not residual in numerical terms, but is alternative, i.e. after consideration of the forms of asylum and the request for subsidiary protection. Therefore, from this point of view, I renew your request if you do not intend to withdraw the circular, even in the light of this true and consolidated pronouncement of the Cassation. [[Applause from Senator Errani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u136	The Minister for the Interior, Senator Salvini, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u137	Mr President, first of all, I hope that the Christian Family, such as Rolling Stone and L'Espresso, will also be a strange company. - he can increase his weekly circulation by 20 copies. I hope that's what my face is for. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups. Ironic applause from the PD Group.]] MALPEZZI (PD). Bravo! Long live the free press! Mr Salvini, Minister for the Interior and Deputy President of the Council of Ministers. Maybe the next one will be Dylan Dog, who knows? [[Comments from the PD Group.]] On the subject, I thank Senator De Petris, with whom I had the honour of speaking yesterday. The note sent last 16 July by the President of the National Commission for the Right of Asylum, which is absolutely part of its prerogatives, is part of a request, in the interest of the real refugees too, to contingency the times of examination of the applications. For twenty days, 250 new officials have been in office, and it is my intention and this Government's intention to take over by the year another 170 in order to reduce the time of examination of the existing questions, which are 130,000, which now, from the beginning to the end of the iter, come to sum two and a half years of time, unworthy especially of the real refugees who would have right to have recognized their status before this time immemorial. So this is a circular that calls for a shorter time frame and an increase in the number of questions that have been asked, and I think we all agree on that. As far as humanitarian protection is concerned, we are working on a security package to regulate, as in other European countries, more directly and specifically the cases in which this form of protection can be recognized, which, as you admitted, Senator De Petris - the debate on terminology can be subjective - is recognized by the Cassation, so not by Salvini, in his last sentence as a "residual". Now, the data tells us that it is recognised in 28% of cases, so almost twice as much as refugee status and subsidiary protection. If we reappear also the appeals and the acceptance of 25% of the appeals we arrive at a 40%, which is not a residual number evidently. Our goal is to have certain times and guaranteed rights for those who must be recognized these rights. I welcome the initiative of the President of the National Commission for the Right of Asylum, who does not go into the matter of individual choices but calls for even faster and even more efficient work, and I propose to bring to the attention of this House, as soon as possible, a security package that brings together more up-to-date and more efficient legislation on immigration in general. My goal and this Government is to recognize full rights in fast times to those who deserve to see them recognized, but to avoid shortcuts and smartness that Italy can no longer afford. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u138	Senator De Petris has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u139	Minister, I am pleased that you pointed out that the address was only to shorten the time frame and therefore to shorten the time frame which is objectively very long. However, I would like to point out that the last sentence of the Cassation, to which I referred, states that humanitarian protection is a form of protection certainly residual, because it is placed at the end of the overall system - so the system is overall - which regulates the international protection of foreigners in Italy. It is therefore a form anchored in Article 10 of the Constitution, which becomes a full member of the system of protection and constitutional asylum, as it is carefully interpreted and said by the Cassazione itself. It is therefore not a sneaky way to find other protections, it is one of the elements that is recognized by our Constitution. Moreover, the Court of Cassation has repeatedly stated, as in the judgment cited, that it is within the pluralistic system of international protection and is used when there are no extremes for the first two, the request for asylum and subsidiary protection.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u140	Senator Rauti has the right to explain the question 3-00123 on the contrast of irregular migration flows, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u141	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, just yesterday this House approved the transfer of twelve Italian naval units to the Libyan Coast Guard. We have seen the measure as a positive signal; just as we have seen as a signal its address on migration policies after the Viminal settlement. Signs that go in the direction we believe necessary, of border protection to deal with illegal immigration and to manage the phenomenon of migratory waves, as well as to ensure internal security. The key issue remains the control of maritime borders and the fight against trafficking in human beings; therefore, the fight against migratory flows and the protection of security are two fundamental issues, as also reaffirmed by the European Council on 28 and 29 June. However, Minister, it is a question of stepping up efforts to stop the activities of traffickers from Libya, Tunisia and other North African countries, as well as of making greater efforts to ensure the repatriation of irregular migrants. It is for this reason, Minister, that Brothers of Italy reiterates, once again, the need for a naval blockade off the Libyan coast, agreed with the authorities of Libya as the only solution to block illegal immigration, preventing the departure of boats to Italy. I want to point out, in order to prevent any objection and any misunderstandings, that the naval blockade is not a measure of war, but it is the ban on departures; it is an agreed ban and in collaboration with the authorities, in this Libyan case. The naval blockade that Brothers of Italy calls for is therefore a feasible and effective European military mission. We therefore ask you, Minister, if you do not feel that it is urgent to take the necessary steps to promote the activation of this specific mission called a naval blockade in Europe. We also ask you for a system intervention and not a sector intervention; therefore, if you do not consider it appropriate and urgent to promote within the next multiannual financial framework a specific European fund to implement agreements with countries of migratory origin, in accordance with the principle of readmission, thus promoting the return operations of irregular migrants. You, Minister, have announced, as you have also said here, a security decree to order the current situation of disorder on the subject, perhaps even a new text on immigration. We have also heard that you referred again to the circular of 4 July. A circular sent to the prefects, to which his ministry had to return. The circular is unexpected, so much so that it was again solicited. Minister, we ask you both for the naval blockade and for the return a greater commitment of the Government, because we would not want the many announcements, even shared, to remain so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u142	The Minister for the Interior, Senator Salvini, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u143	Mr President, Senator, I start from the numbers because politics is passion, but it is made of numbers. From 1 June, the date of the inauguration of this Government, to date 4,500 immigrants have landed in Italy. At the same time as last year, 34,200 landed. So, we're at minus 30,000. It does not seem to me to be announcements, but real and concrete facts and our commitment is to continue along this line. With regard to the naval blockade, given that such an option would invest assessments of the entire Executive, I think it is important to stress that my Ministry considers it a priority for the time being to implement the conclusions of the European Council on 28 June. We are working with Libya, as you recalled, for the provision of means, for the sending of men, for training, for economic support and support for the garrison of the North and South borders. The problem does not end in Libya; we must involve Egypt, Algeria, Tunisia and Morocco, which I have already begun to do. I think I'll complete it by summer. Therefore, beyond the debate on the use of the word, I am interested in the concrete result that we are achieving and that I am counting on being able to increase and improve by the end of the mandate. With regard to the second point you raised regarding cooperation on a European basis, it is what we are stressful about by our fellow European Ministers and prime ministers that the 500 million European Trust for Africa should actually, quickly and effectively be spent, just as 6 billion has been invested in Turkey. We are working with non-governmental organisations OIM and UNHCR, representing the International Organisation for Migration and the UN and other support and voluntary associations to continue on the path of assisted voluntary returns, which last year were more than 30,000. I think that, being fifty-six days, with honour, in the place that God and the Italians - whom I thank - have granted me, we have shown that wanting is power and that we can limit illegal immigration, also because, once the flow of irregular immigration is closed, we can finally return to talk about regular, limited and qualified immigration, which can be an added value for our society, unlike what has happened in recent years. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u144	Senator Rauti has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u145	Minister, I also love numbers and, in fact, I had read your report indicating a drop of 86 per cent since 1 June. I quantify it as a percentage. Speaking of numbers, it is true that there is a decrease, but it is also true that in the last five years - this of course does not depend on you - over 600,000 people have landed in our country, which in some way we have to manage in a systemic way and not with sector interventions. While we can be partially satisfied with the response on return activities and with the agreements that you intend to extend with the other countries from which immigration originates, we would also like to remember that some of these countries could be "invited." For example, Turkey has forced us to provide 6 billion in four years for the migrant issue. In that case, Europe did not harm and did so because the Balkan route disturbed Germany and the resources were immediately found. We are partially satisfied with this. I do not think I can say the same with regard to the naval blockade. I think I can say, on behalf of the Group that I represent at the moment, that we are dissatisfied, because we have heard a lot about the naval blockade at other times, even by authoritative representatives of the majority of the Government. We no longer hear of it and continue to reiterate that it is the only serious action to engrave upstream - everything else then is downstream -, to stop the boats of death, the traffickers and to fight the scafists, which you enunciate in the guidelines. How can we achieve this if we do not act with the instrument of a naval blockade off the coast of Libya? We must not be afraid of words: "Navy blockade" is not an act of war, but a European mission that blocks boats where they leave.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u146	I would ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u147	RAUTI (FdI). We therefore hope, Minister, that the majority of the Government will accept our proposals for legislation on humanitarian protection and subsidiary protection - we have presented them - and that it shares our position. I conclude by reaffirming the crucial importance for us of the naval blockade.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u148	Senator Parrini has the right to explain question 3-00126 on a sentence on the seizure of funds, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u149	Mr President, Minister, the question I am going to put on behalf of the Democratic Party has at its heart a murky political and judicial affair in our view and will lead me to ask three questions, which are very simple but I think are very important. The story to which I refer is well known and is the one that arises from the fact that a seizure decree, issued on 4 September 2017, and following a criminal sentence of 24 July 2017 requires the League to return 49 million illegally forfeited. Up to now this obligation has not been fulfilled, except to a ridiculous extent. There are 49 million that must be returned to the state and that have not been returned: the fact is of enormous importance. This is the main fact of the matter. Besides the main fact there are some that we call secondary, but not less serious: there are investigative hypotheses of money laundering; there are investigative hypotheses of investment in own of the funds of the public financing; there are investigative hypotheses of recourse to elusive maneuvers of the decree of seizure that I recalled before; there are investigative hypotheses that have to do with ambiguous calls in question addressed also to you, Minister, that come from within your party and that we have read with great dismay, especially because until today no reply to these calls in question is reached. Finally, there are documents proving that the resources which were the subject of the criminal investigation for fraud, to which I referred and which were already known at that time, were used even after his election as Federal Secretary of the League. So the three questions I ask you are very simple. Firstly, do you, Minister, believe in the rule of law, in the principle that everyone is equally subject to the law, even the holders of the political party, even the majority government parties? Secondly, since you have spoken very harshly against the judgments I have referred to, calling them political, do you know anything that we do not know about the work of the judiciary that issued these judgments? If you know, tell the Group of the Party of European Socialists, but above all in Parliament, because if there is anything strange we will be at your side to ask for clarity.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u150	Conclude, Senator Parrini.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u151	Mr Parrini (PD). Of course, ma'am. Third question: you are the Minister of Law who directs and coordinates the forces in this State that are responsible for supervising compliance with judgments. Do you think that your role as Minister of the Interior and of legality is compatible with the role of head, that is, number one of a party that is invested by such a serious judicial affair and by a sentence that provides that you return 49 million and that this money has not returned? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Really close. Mr Parrini (PD). I shall conclude, Mr President. Just give me a second. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's already taken more than a minute. Mr Parrini (PD). I would like to ask you what you have done and what you intend to do as a Minister of Law and as a person who directs the forces responsible for enforcing the judgments, so that these judgments are respected. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u152	The Minister for the Interior, Senator Salvini, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u153	My goodness, how many investigative hypotheses. We'll see how much they get to the bottom of it. Surely the sentences must be applied, until proven otherwise, ultimately. There is only one precedent of confiscation of a political party without a final sentence: it comes from Turkey. I don't know if it's your reference model, but it's not my reference model. We are very ready to respond when there will be the conclusion of a judicial process that, until proven otherwise, is in progress between hypothesis and counter-thesis. I'm curious and I hope they do it quickly, because they're using public money to deepen all these many investigative hypotheses. When there's a sentence, I'll be the first to respect it. I, as a journalist, usually never sue anyone. I have reserved myself in the past few weeks to raise formal complaint, because I can be attacked or criticized, but who approaches my name to the underworld, to the mafia, to the camorra and to the 'ndrangheta, must answer to a judge, because one account is the political criticism, one account is the infamy; one account is the lie, one account is the lie. I am obviously not referring to you, Senator, but to some champions defended by your desks. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I repeat - one account is criticism, one account is insult and defamation. Finally, I respond with the words of the former Attorney of Venice Carlo Nordio, so I take off my role as secretary of the League, a position that I expect to be able to carry out just as well as that of Minister. Says the prosecutor Nordio: The Finance Guard must find money or equivalent assets that may refer to the League, including those that may be transferred abroad, provided that they are relevant to the crime. Acquisitions carried out up to the time of the crime, not current or future, can only be attacked. It is inconceivable that if I say today "Carlo Nordio " they give a euro to the League, this is kidnapped for a crime with which it has no connection." Then he adds: "Judges affect the functioning of our democracy" and "The abc of law requires that future goods cannot be touched: if the opposite principle passes, it is legal barbarity." In my opinion, Salvini is right, the former prosecutor Carlo Nordio continues. The seizure of such a large amount involves the compromise of political activity. It means preventing a government party from surviving. The sentences must be respected, but I have never seen such a confiscated order. I share a line by line with the prosecutor Nordio's bewilderment. [[Applause from the L-SP Group. Ironic applause from the PD Group. Some Senators of the PD Group display signs with the words "Return 49 million" and cheque maids]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u154	It's indecent! I no longer give you the right to reply. You have a right to reply. It's indecent. (Minister Salvini picks up the PD Group desks with his mobile phone.) VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. But what does the Minister do? Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, that cannot be done!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u155	Mr Minister, you can't photograph in this House. I stopped them from photographing, too. [[Protests from the PD Group.]] Colleagues, I invite you to behave correctly. I just told the Minister that you can't photograph him, and yet you photographed you, too. I don't think this is a ring, all right? I don't like this way. I don't like it. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] You have the right to reply. Do so to the extent that you have the right to do so. There is no need for these demonstrations. Otherwise, I will be forced to prevent live television. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups and Mr Salvini. Ironic applause from the PD Group.]] You can't give this show; we can't give this show. [[Lively protests from the PD Group.]] Stop it. You have the right to reply and that is the home to manifest your thought, nothing else. I won't tolerate it. Otherwise, I'll have to close the session. I give the floor to Senator Misiani to respond for two minutes. Now say what you have to say.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u156	Mr President, as I understand it, we are not at all satisfied with the answers given by Mr Salvini. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The story has been summed up well by Mr Parrini and so I am not going back. We have asked three easy questions to Mr Salvini, first of all whether he intends to comply with the judgments of the judiciary and an act of seizure which is immediately enforceable. Nordio has nothing to do with it; read the judgment of the Court of Cassation of 12 April last. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It's not that the cassation is good for migrants and it's not good for the 49 million! We asked you whether you, as Secretary of the League, intend to return the 49 million public money that is the subject of that seizure and whether or not you intend to resolve a clear conflict of opportunity between your being Secretary of the Party concerned by that act of seizure and the Minister responsible for the political legality, respect for the law and the sentences and that conflict must be resolved. Mr President, the Minister loves to give himself the image of a strong man who does not give up, who goes on, as he tweets after tweet. The Minister threw the ball in the stands today. Minister, why do you still not answer? Why doesn't he keep telling the truth to the Italians? What happened to his bravado and his strength? What do you wait to return 49 million public money that is due to Italians and that is the subject of an act immediately enforceable? Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask a party that has won millions of votes on the abolition of public funding, legality and transparency, the Movimento 5 Stars, which in the past, when these issues concerned other parties, has waged political battles, proclamations and has taken very hard positions. Why are you shut up this time? What do you think of this? What does your Minister of Justice think, that he has been silent on this matter despite having been called on several times to respond to this House? When will you and your allies deign to tell the truth to the Italians, who deserve to have knowledge of the facts and answers regarding the acts of the judiciary that must be respected? [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u157	Senator Pillon has the right to explain the question 3-00062 on the transcription of children's births by same-sex parents for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u158	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for a few months now we have been witnessing a clear strategy carried out by two or three law firms and seeking to legitimise illegal and criminal practices in our country, such as wombs in rent and trafficking in human gametes. Unworkable is the legislative path, on the part of the lobby the administrative and judicial road on the one hand and the media road on the other, proposing the inscription and transcription of birth acts evidently contrary to the truth, in that they bear as true parents two males or two females. The media system has thrown itself on the grim story, taking up administrative and judicial measures and talking about children with two fathers or two mothers, as if this were possible, generating great confusion in public opinion. It is an elegant and compassionate way to deny the truth of the facts, since each of us has been conceived by a father and a mother and, among other things, it is a way to depress the children of their inalienable right to grow with mom and dad, circumventing the normative prohibition laid down by law n. 40 of 2004, sanctioning as serious crimes the surrogacy and the trafficking of gametes. Unless something's changed in the last ten minutes, two fathers equal uterus rent. As you know, practicing utero for rent means buying physically at a very expensive price of eggs from a woman, chosen by catalog based on preferences from rich buyers; this woman is bombarded with ovarian hyperstimulation, subjected to withdrawal of gametes that, once fertilized, are implanted in the uterus of another female, usually chosen among the poorest. This last woman is treated with anti-rejection chemotherapy and is forced to follow the contract of rental of uterus in every detail for nine months. The child, once born, is immediately torn and delivered to the buyers. Two mothers is equal to gametes traffic, i.e. choose to catalog sperm on the Internet based on the beauty, color of the hair, race and other psychophysical characteristics of the seller. [[Recalls of the President]] I'm almost done, Mr. President. In both cases we know that children who are born will be deprived of their fatherly or maternal figure by the whimsical selfishness of two adults, who have more money. This is true slavery.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u159	Conclude, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u160	Mr PILON (L-SP). I shall conclude, Mr President. This is an attack on the dignity of the woman. Minister, since we can say that those who steal a car abroad cannot legitimately register their property in Italy, while we are able to register in Italy children, as if they were children of two fathers, bought abroad, I would like to know what they intend to do to ensure that the mayors comply with the regulations in force, that prohibits uterus for rent and gametes traffic... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please finish. Mr PILON (L-SP). ...and prevent the ex post legitimacy of such practices. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u161	The Minister for the Interior, Senator Salvini, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u162	Mr President, I thank Senator Pillon. In recent months there have been several cases of requests for registration and transcription of birth documents by persons of the same sex, compared to which some officers of the civil state, in the wake of the current law, have correctly opposed, considering them against the law. Other municipal offices, on the other hand, have decided to proceed with the formation of the required documents, going beyond, in my opinion, the rules in force. On this subject, which, as intuitable, goes beyond the close evaluation in legal terms, diversified positions are being developed: I am referring in particular to the order to return to the Constitutional Court of the Court of Pisa of 11 May, which raises the question of the constitutional legitimacy of civil state legislation, in the part where it does not allow the formation in Italy of an act of civil state in which two persons of the same sex are recognised as parents. From the administrative point of view, the various disputes currently under way have suggested to the Ministry the opportunity to request from the General Vetting of the State - and we have done so - its own legal assessments, before defining guidelines, which I intend to send to all the prefectures and bodies concerned. I believe it is necessary to await these assessments, taking into account the orientation of the Council of State, in order to exclude that the prefect may annul the act of the civil state officer in the absence of an explicit provision of law. From my point of view, however, there are still a few points to date. The first: according to the current civil status system, the acts of birth are formed and are entered in the relevant registers, indicating which parents the parent and the biological father. Period. [[Senator De Petris' comments.]] This principle is also reaffirmed with reference to the notation in the act of birth of the recognition of sonship, which requires prior verification by the reporting agent of the condition of paternity or motherhood. Second firm point: Article 12 of Law No 40 of 2004 considers the practices of the uterus for rent and the sale of human gametes and children as a criminal case. They're crimes. As long as I camp and as long as I am a member of this Government, the uterus for rent and children for sale will not exist in Italy as a practice that harms the right of the child, mother and father. [[Applause from Senator Giarrusso]] We are therefore waiting for the ruling of the State Vetting. In the collective interest and in particular of children, the right to have a mother and a father is a right to which I and this Government will breathe, voice and defense in every possible and imaginable place. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u163	Senator Pillon has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u164	Mr President, Minister, I am fully satisfied with the answer. I would like to thank the Minister for stating clearly what are to be considered lawful conduct and illegal conduct by the mayors and thank him for announcing his administrative measure, which will clarify it definitively. I thank Minister Salvini also for having remembered that mother is only the one who gives birth and father is only the one who conceived. MALPEZZI (PD). So adopters are not mothers! Mr PILON (L-SP). We hope that the administrations and even some courts will comply with these indications that, in addition to being in conformity with the law, they are above all in conformity with the naturalness of things, with the common sense and with the greater interest of children. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] MALPEZZI (PD). So it's only mother who gives birth. Who's adopting?
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u165	Senator Dal Mas has the right to explain the question 3-00124 on the abusive occupation of buildings, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u166	Mr President, Senators and Senators, Minister, you are well aware of this issue - you have mentioned it several times - of the abusive occupation of property, a scourge of this country, even if this is likely to happen in all Western countries. The question, however, has accelerated as a result of two recent judgments, which you certainly know, of the civil court in Rome, issued eight months later, which have achieved a real change of paradigm on this matter, affirming principles on which I will quickly reflect. Calling them back. The issue is well known because in the previous legislature, the Head of Police, during a hearing at the Committee of Inquiry into the security conditions and the state of degradation of cities and suburbs, gave these data: Catania over 100 units, Genoa 3.000 apartments, Reggio Calabria 110 accommodations, Rome 101 buildings, Turin 24 stables, Venice 19 occupied properties and 14 land invasions. If I am not mistaken, in the Government contract for the change of the country, you have indicated a specific chapter, on page 44-45, where you have, even in a precise way, indicated in about 48,000 housing the size of this phenomenon. Going back to the recent decisions of the Rome court, one of November 2017, a more recent one of July 2018, the Italian State has been sentenced to compensate the owners for the illegal occupation of real estate and basically we are talking about quite interesting figures, indeed important, almost scary: in a case of 266,000 euros monthly, in the other case 28 million euros. In particular, the abovementioned decisions state a principle: the fugitiveness of the State, which meant the lack of prevention, in order to avoid employment, and the failure to clear the property. I believe that the most effective words have been spoken by the judge in the most recent judgment, when he says that the abusive occupation of an entire property compendium does not harm the interests of the owner alone, but also the general interest of the associates in an orderly and peaceful coexistence and assumes an unambiguous eversive value. I do not think it is necessary for me to dwell on this, you certainly know these things well. In the Government contract we refer to it, we wait for answers and to know what initiatives the Government intends to take.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u167	The Minister for the Interior, Senator Salvini, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u168	Mr President, the issue of the abusive occupation of public and private property is particularly complex. In fact, it must be borne in mind that occupations are a diversified phenomenon and can be the subject of protagonism by families with housing difficulties, political antagonism groups and widespread lawlessness. The interrogators recall the data that emerged during the work of the Parliamentary Commission. I can say that, returning to Rome, today there are 92 illegally occupied buildings, 66 of which for residential use, as well as 6,834 apartments owned by public housing. We are therefore in a position to guarantee at the same time the rights of the owners, public security and public order. What will move my activity as Minister is the fact that private property is an intangible right and we will also work on this with some regulatory changes that my offices are working on. The equally important commitment is to act in a preventive way, through constant and careful surveillance of the territory and unused buildings, in order to prevent illegality. The immediate intervention of the police forces in order to avoid the consolidation of de facto situations is essential for attempts at new employment. There is also a need for a strict policy of evictions, which is also useful in reducing the number of situations that date back over time, according to the targeted paths provided for by the current legal provisions that, as I said, cannot be excluded, can be improved, changed and improved. In this sense, I have already sent the offices of the Ministry to do the appropriate insights. This action needs to be accompanied by an incisive initiative by local authorities. It is for this reason that I intend to establish a strong and constant collaboration with the mayors of all Italy and with the economic categories concerned, in order to guarantee, always and in any case, legality, through concrete and effective operational solutions. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u169	Senator Dal Mas may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u170	Minister, I am pleased with your reply. If you will allow me, I would like to recall a bill presented by Forza Italia and already incardinated in the Senate, with which it is essentially intended to amend Article 11 of the so-called Minniti decree, which actually freezes the decisions of the judiciary. Minister, you have rightly said that we must put together the needs of those who are in difficulty with those of property, but it is also true that, at the moment, all too often, certain situations have a major impact on property and not on the State, which has the task of guaranteeing the security that we have made through a pact that is at the origin of modern states and that we believe must also be the basis of our social and social system, as well as of our security. We therefore trust that this policy will be implemented and we hope that the current majority that governs this country will consider amending Article 11 of the so-called Minniti decree, which entrusts the prefects with an absolutely discretionary power, which exceeds any final decision of the judiciary. [[Applause from Senator De Poli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u171	Senator Montevecchi has the power to explain the question 3-00125 on the redevelopment of the school building heritage, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u172	Mr Minister, as you know, in Italy there is an old-fashioned building stock, which requires continuous security measures for buildings. Despite the investments of the Government that preceded us, the data published so far do not allow to consider on the whole improved the general framework of reference. I give only one figure, without entering into the discourse of the anti-seismic adaptation: still 40% of the buildings do not appear to possess the relative certification of agility. Despite the establishment of a mission structure for the coordination and impetus in the implementation of the redevelopment of school buildings at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, there remains an excessive fragmentation of the funding lines, with several institutional partners, which does not allow for a uniform vision and management of school construction in Italy. The above structure had not been operational for a long time (for months) and no longer had a coordinator, when the current Government decided not to reconfirm it. At the moment, resources of EUR 7 billion have already been allocated, but they have not yet been authorised, given the complexity of the procedures that delay their allocation to local authorities. Finally, to date there is not yet the necessary publicity and usability of the data contained in the registry of the school building and I remember that the same has resumed to live, in the last legislature, thanks also to the enormous work of solicitation from my political force. I therefore ask the Minister what he intends to do in order to improve the quality of our educational building heritage, to ensure that it is re-developed and to make the data contained in the school building register effective and effective, in order to plan the necessary measures as best as possible and to manage the resources available in a wise and effective way. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Mr Salvini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u173	The Minister for Education, Universities and Research, Dr. Bussetti, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u174	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members for giving me the opportunity to speak on a subject that is very close to my heart and which I have dealt with since I joined the Ministry of Education, University and Research. I would like to start with some significant data. The first is that our school building heritage is particularly old-fashioned: 62 percent of schools are thought to have been built before 1976; about 58 percent of school buildings are not in compliance with fire regulations and about 53 percent from the point of view of feasibility. The average time of the procedures through which the resources allocated in the State budget to finance the restructuring and seismic adjustment of schools reach the local authorities owners of school buildings is about one and a half years; to this, it is necessary to add the necessary one to the agency in order to carry out the tenders and then carry out the interventions. I believe that these figures are very worrying, especially in view of the considerable amount of resources, including those of a European source, which have so far been allocated and not spent. This situation is no longer acceptable, since we are all convinced that the safety of our students and students and of all school staff is a top priority. I therefore believe that there is a need to rethink fully the governance of the system. In this sense it is explained by the already decided abolition of the mission structure for school construction set up by the previous Government in the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. In fact, having a single interlocutor, the MIUR, constitutes a decisive facilitation for local authorities in the implementation of the actions of safety of schools. It is also necessary to simplify the processes. With this in mind, I have promoted, in agreement with the Minister for Regional Affairs and Self-Government, the establishment of a technical table between the State, Regions and local authorities that is working hard to ensure that, by next August, a framework agreement to reduce red tape and cut the time needed for the allocation of resources to local authorities that own school buildings is completed in a unified conference. At the same time, at the same table we are working to propose legislative interventions (I hope already in the bill of conversion of the decree-law so called Ministries) of simplification and acceleration of procedures. Another important issue is transparency. It is necessary for citizens to be able to check whether the objectives we have set themselves will be achieved. Precisely for this reason it is necessary to have a school building registry updated in real time and truly accessible to all. These are few important objectives that, thanks to the commitment of all institutional actors, we can achieve quickly. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u175	Senator Montevecchi has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u176	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, with respect to which I am satisfied, and I wish him good work, and I hope that the path already taken to equip himself, even at the Ministry, with adequate structures and skills to manage efficiently all aspects of school building, will soon come to an end and finally in this country we can reach an acceptable level of retraining and safety of the school heritage, because this would mean, first of all, sending our children and our girls, our students and our students to safe places and therefore protecting them. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u177	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, the first standing Commission has not yet concluded its examination of the draft law No 648 of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 86 of 12 July 2018 on the reordering of the Ministries on the agenda of today's sitting. The debate on the measure is therefore postponed until 4 p.m. on Monday 30 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u179	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-27.ana.u180	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 30 July, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 15.57 p.m.
