ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.36 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 4 July. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u3	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u4	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u5	[[Brusio.]] Colleagues, the sitting has been opened for some time now, so please observe some silence. RIVOLTA (L-SP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last Wednesday 4 July he died in his home in Barni, in the province of Como, at the age of 82, Professor Ettore Adalberto Albertoni, illustrious son of Lombardy, born in Sesto San Giovanni on 7 March 1936. Ettore Adalberto Albertoni was lawyer and university professor, ordinary professor of history of political doctrines, director of the Legal Institute of the Faculty of Political Science and of the University of Milan and dean of the faculty of jurisprudence of the headquarters of Como of the University of the Studies of Insubria, which he himself helped to found. A scholar of Gaetano Moscow, Gian Domenico Romagnosi, Vilfredo Pareto and Carlo Cattaneo, he deepened his studies on the elite and was among the major Italian scholars of federalism and the federalist organization of the States. In the first part of his life he fought in the Socialist Party, already then in the autonomousist component. In the 1990s he approached the Lombard League-North League attracted by the federalist and autonomousist message of which he was already a worshiper and scholar. In 2000 in the Lombardy Region he was elected for two terms as regional councillor at the college of Como, from 2000 to 2006. He was a city councilman for cultures and identities and autonomy (he wanted the declination to the plural, because Lombardy is plural). From 2006 to June 2008 he was President of the Regional Council. As city councilman he did a great job of sowing, based on the conviction that culture is not only a consolation for the soul or an intelligent way by which to spend free time, but a real factor of development, moral and civil, but also social and economic. Alongside new major initiatives (film festivals, literary reviews, revival of theaters and sites, musical projects and also editorials: case with the writings of Cattaneo in the economic series of Mondadori to make it available to all), he directed the great investment to the Cultural Heritage, then freed from the Stability Pact. Fifty program agreements were made throughout Lombardy, for the recovery of places of culture destined to host realities and cultural activities, a result that earned him a page of the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), which recognized the start of a "Renaissance Lombardo." In 2006 it was considered the right figure to complete the process of adapting the Lombardy Statute to the new Title V of the Constitution, modified after the referendum of 2001. Professor Albertoni devoted himself to it with a great spirit of service and with all his competence as a jurist and, after a not easy confrontation with the Government, Lombardy could celebrate its status of autonomy, a definition that marked the great turning point in the path of autonomy that is about to take place and that gives the professor forever to the history of his Region. Soon after he resigned and returned to his studies to complete the academic path: this was his last great class of style in the Region. From 2002 to 2003 he was a member of the Board of Directors of RAI, the first member of the League to hold that position, in which he carried out a strenuous battle for a more specific representation of the territories in the public service he dreamed of federal, with a network (the third) to be dedicated to the different regions and not only to regional information. From 2011 to 2015 he was a secular member of the CSM. Among its distinctive features I would like to mention the stubbornness, the strength, the enthusiasm, the passions for study and teaching, an extraordinary human charge: gifts that have made him dear to all the people who have known and esteemed him. Gentleman by vocation, he did not weigh his intellectual thickness and, indeed, made available to all his knowledge, gave every person encountered attention and availability. His teachings were great and his institutional sense immense, he said: the public role must be absolutely at the service of the public good, of the community. Untiring, always willing to come to conferences but also to evenings organized in remote villages to promote the culture of autonomy and federalism. He was a true teacher for many Lombards and not only. He participated with the usual enthusiasm also in the last campaigns referendarie and on the occasion of the presentation to Como of Attilio Fontana, future candidate and governor of Lombardy, he had intervened exhorting those present with his cry of battle: "Freedom, freedom, freedom!" with his voice ringing and proud and that his herre. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] We remember him with immense esteem and respect, with affection and gratitude. Always generous, even fifteen days ago he wanted to meet the Comaschi MPs for a sort of passage of deliveries: his encouragement and the exhortation to continue on the road already drawn. To the inseparable wife Lele and sister Valeria go the senses of our heartfelt mourning. Goodbye, Professor! [[The Assembly stands. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u8	RAMPI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say a word of remembrance from the Group to which I belong. I had the pleasure of meeting the Councillor Albertoni in his activity as Councillor of the League for Culture of the Lombardy Region. He was an intellectual, a man of thought, a man who had a vision of Lombardy, Italy and cultural policies. On many issues there may have been differences, certainly there have been political differences, but it is absolutely true the human charge that has been remembered; above all, it is true the sincere commitment to an investment on cultural policies and on the cultural profile of one of the main Italian regions from the cultural, tourist and attractive point of view, theme that when he became council member was not so considered: Lombardy has always been told as a land of work, production, manual and mechanical activities. I think a figure like Albertoni's has helped us understand that these two elements are held together. I therefore think it is right that, even if it is from different political sides, with different feelings and with a connection that certainly cannot be the one expressed with the heart today by the representatives of the Lega Nord Group, also on our part we recognize in figures such as that of Albertoni those opponents who are pleased to meet and those institutional figures with whom it is pleasing to work together. Thank you. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, L-SP and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u11	Mr Quagliarello (FI-BP). Mr President, just a few words from our Group too to highlight what Mr Rivolta has said in this House. I met Professor Albertoni and had the pleasure of having him as a colleague at the time when we both did another job, that of historians. As has been recalled, Professor Albertoni was one of the most serious and also most profitable scholars in investigating the theme of elitism in Italy. This reminds us first of all how, through the study, you can then go beyond your own research objects, because, evidently, having known the thinking of the elitists, beginning with that of Gaetano Moscow, you can also understand those genuine reasons of popularism, of popular thought, which were a red thread that tied the whole history of our country. On this theme the pages that Professor Albertoni has left us are certainly among the best and most penetrating. His true passion, which probably also explains what was his political landing place, was however the thought of Cattaneo, which was seen as a sort of counterhistory of our Risorgimento, so to speak the defeated part of our Risorgimento. However, I believe that, precisely for this reason, Albertoni understood the possibility that there was another development of the history of Italy always within the unitary framework. Compared to the centralistic trend that our country's history has assumed - among other things also in an involuntary way - because the historical right did not have at its origins a centralistic thought, but had to adapt to what were the needs of unity - Cattaneo's thought developed the possibility that, in the framework of freedom, first of all of economic, our Italian history had a federalist trend. I like to imagine that even the developments of the friends of the North League, who in their path have gone to reconsider the reasons for the necessary unity, even in a different framework, have been influenced by this man who, through his passion for study, has arrived at politics. [[Applause from the FI-BP, L-SP, M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u14	PARAGO (M5S). Mr President, I too join in a greeting which is a greeting to a great historian, whom I have had the opportunity to know as a scholar of federalism and scholar of Cattaneo. It also makes me species, in a positive sense, think of it in his last days in Como, in the city of Professor Miglio: everything is held, everything is closed. I met Professor Ettore Adalberto Albertoni first as a scholar and then because he also held the position of managing director of RAI; This allowed me, even before entering this fantastic company, to know a part of it, a dynamic. He has always respected the role of that company, making his own path of study. He had in mind a RAI attentive to the territories and not only the territory: he always liked to decline the words territory and identity to the plural. He always studied and thought, even in a field of television culture, that everything had a function and a plural declination; he had this attitude to a federalist thought that was innate. In addition to historian, he had made a political journey in respect of a united country, whose strength lies in the diversity of cultural identities. So I remember it with pleasure. I also remember some particular aspects, such as the long chats where he came with a big hat: he was a man of great refinement and great thickness and I welcomed with regret the news of his disappearance and I think I can remember him in the name of the Movimento 5 Stars. I greet the friends of the League in this memory. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u15	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u16	The Conference of Leaders unanimously agreed to postpone at 6 p.m. on Monday 16 July the deadline by which groups which have not already provided the nominations of their representatives will be sent to the RAI Supervisory Committee, the Copasir, as well as to the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. These guarantee bodies will be convened on Wednesday 18 July, at the following times: RAI Monitoring Committee, 9 a.m.; Copasir, 10 a.m.; Parliamentary elections and immunity were reached at 3.30 p.m. The sitting of Wednesday 18 will therefore begin at 11 a.m. with the secret ballot by means of ballots for the election of two members of the RAI board of directors. At the end of the vote, the sitting will be suspended in order to allow the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to be convened. The Assembly's work will then resume at 5 p.m. with the votes for the election of the members of the Administrative Justice, the Court of Auditors and the tax justice and other items on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that on 7 June last, the Presidency received a letter with which Senator Lara Magoni announced her resignation from the Senate following the appointment as city council member of the Lombardy Region. Since the resignation was based on incompatibility, pursuant to Article 122 of the Constitution, the Assembly can only take note of it. The Provisional Board for the Verification of Powers is hereby authorised to convene for the identification of the successor senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u18	The next item is the debate on motion 1-00003 tabled by Senator Bonino and other senators on the establishment of an extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. I call Senator Bonino to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for being so numerous in a debate on a subject which, in general, is not very good for the majority. I must say, however, that the Senate has always shown, in all its formations and in all its majorities, a great sensitivity to the theme of the promotion of human and political rights in Italy and in the world. This is also demonstrated by the sensitivity of the House, which can be seen by looking at the many initiatives that have been filed, apart from this motion, by colleagues and colleagues to propose a whole series of instruments. I refer to the proposal for a law to set up a Committee of Inquiry into the Rights of Women, presented with many signatures by Senator Conzatti and to the proposal of the Life Senator Liliana Segre for the establishment of a Parliamentary Commission against Racism; other instruments have been deposited in the Chamber of Deputies, for example that of my colleague, Mr Quartapelle, which provides for the establishment of an independent authority against all discrimination, as the United Nations has been calling for for a long time. This means that there is a widespread sensitivity, as evidenced by the large number of signatures at the bottom of the motion, not only of almost all the Leaders, but also of many colleagues and colleagues from all political backgrounds. This transversality is an important fact, as well as a second fact that I want to point out. I will not explain the motion point by point because it is self-explanatory and, then, because the text is identical to the one voted in the last parliamentary term. As signatories we wanted the text to be identical precisely to indicate the continuity that marked the Senate on the subject. The senate's sensitivity to these issues comes from afar, from the Committee of 1996 against the death penalty, which then led, in a great synergy between institutions and civil society, to the moratorium on the death penalty approved by the United Nations in 2007, which continues to have other accessions. I would like to remind you that in 2001 the abolitionist commitment continued with the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, which was set up with a first-signed motion by our President, Senator Alberti Casellati, who showed a great sensitivity to promote, together with the other Leaders, the urgent registration, or at least rather rapid, of the motion in the Calendar of proceedings of the Assembly. This work has been very useful and recognized. Perhaps not everyone remembers the extraordinary case of Amina Lawal, sentenced to death for adultery. On that occasion the Senate moved, along with many other organizations, even with a delegation that went to support Amina Lawal's good reasons for stoning for adultery, until she was acquitted by a judgment of the Nigerian Court and released on September 25, 2003. This is to point out that also apparently fragile instruments or otherwise not right, can accompany a process; I remember in fact that the promotion of human rights is a process, it is not something that happens from evening to morning who knows with what magic wand. And just because it is a trial, sometimes it goes on and sometimes - alas - it goes back, as the recent history of the country and the European Continent shows. This Senate was next to all the battle that led to the criminalization of female genital mutilation, for example. This Senate has accompanied the entire part that has led both to the establishment of the Criminal Court for the former Yugoslavia and to the establishment of the Permanent Criminal Court, also assuming a role of promotion within the United Nations General Assembly of great importance. This Senate worked with the interministerial committee established within the Farnesina. This Senate worked within the Human Rights Commission in Geneva and then also dealt with Italian issues such as prisons, for example, situations in prisons or the situation of Roma and Sinti, the rights of disabled people, failure to achieve development aid contributions. I don't want to make it long, but I wanted to remember this fact of transversality and continuity. This is ours and - if you approve of the motion - your commitment comes from afar and it is true that, at times, talking about human rights seems a bit irritating or contradictory or in controversy with respect to political lines at a time or another more related to Realpolitik, but - believe me - in the medium term it is the promotion of freedom and individual dignity that makes us take the greatest steps forward. The others may be, at times, shortcuts that are difficult for me to accept, but, in perspective, it is the promotion of the human being either, in terms of gender or skin color, that has led to successes and a more dignified life. I close by remembering that the case sometimes does things right or wrong. Tomorrow is the anniversary of the extermination of Srebrenica, the greatest wound of our times on our continent: 8,000 Bosnians massacred inside a compound either outside or in the vicinity of the United Nations, which was precisely why they had a recent condemnation by the Hague Tribunal (however, the Dutch Government was partially recognized as responsible). And just tomorrow this Senate, not on my initiative but on the initiative of the Bosnian community and President Casini, in the Nasirya room recalls the drama of Srebrenica that, I believe, many of us will not be able to forget very soon. I'll make it short and close, as I told you. I don't want to read you the motion with the whole list of national and international conventions that we have signed and that we have to implement, but I want to leave you with a few words that Liliana Segre sent us, that she wanted very much to participate and she can't do it for reasons you can imagine: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to hear that the Senate has quickly decided to discuss this motion. It is necessary, I believe, to get to work immediately, because the risk of the return to humanity of the dark times, as Hannah Arendt said, is always around the corner. This instrument reminds us that the longest decade of the twentieth century, the one that has transported our country from the storm of the unspeakable to the age of rights, is not yet concluded. Implementation of the Constitution is a political and moral duty. Seventy years have passed since the Charter came into force and on 10 December we will be celebrating the other monument to civilization, which is the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, but until our Constitution is fully implemented, that harmful decade will wander over our consciences to remember that the idea of humanity, typical of the Enlightenment, has sometimes found its place not only in the horror of totalitarianism, but could still sprout evil grass in the indifference of the third millennium. Good work and thank you all. Liliana Segre. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u20	Senator Bonino, thank you for bringing the message of Senator Segre back to the House. [[Senator Urso points out that he wants to intervene.]] Senator Urso, I am sorry but your request has not been received and I cannot interrupt the debate, which has already begun. At the end of the session, I'll give you the floor. I would warn you that the G1 agenda has been presented, which has already been printed and distributed, and I would ask the authors to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u21	Mr President, since, as the proverb says, the path to hell is paved with good intentions, we intend to enter into the substance of the debate on the proposal to set up, again in this parliamentary term, an extraordinary Commission for the protection and promotion of human rights. In fact, it seems almost useless to have to open a debate on a topic so much shared, on which I believe there is no one - in Italy and in the developed world - who can challenge the principle of defence and promotion of fundamental values for our civilization and culture. However, experience and history show us that often certain organisms become a kind of secular shrines that take possession of a sort of moral predominance and monopoly of absolute truth and are used as a clava in even internal debate, perhaps to unleash an additional voice in a mobilization against a parliamentary majority or a Government that, on the basis - we believe - of the same principles, but with a different nuance and interpretation, perhaps intend to protect - as has been done - with laws of the State, with respect to the arbitrary nature of the person or to the arrogance of technoscience, the right to life and to place the right limits on abuses in the matter of surrogacy or end of life (on which they are present, even within this Assembly, different ideas and sensibilities). We believe that it is useful to have a debate on this. I will not add any general elements to the G1 agenda, because my colleagues will take into account the position of the Brothers of Italy Group in the general debate. However, I would like to announce that, when we vote, my Group's position will be strongly influenced by whether or not we approve this agenda. In essence, having to set up such a Commission, the G1 agenda calls for an extension to 360 degrees of its scope and for no strabism at national level, nor for what is happening abroad on the issue of the protection and promotion of human rights. In fact, there are countries that in their laws or Constitutions provide for the crime of apostasy and with which Italy maintains, realistically and pragmatically, economic, commercial and political relations. These are countries that may condemn men and women who wish to profess a religion other than that imposed on them by birth to the death penalty. We are talking about at least 12 Islamic states that have this kind of libertarian laws and to be condemned in terms of respect for human rights. As well as, more generally, always on the subject of religious freedom, if there is today a culture, a religion that is subjected in almost all continents of the world to a real oppression is the Christian religion. Last year 3,060 Christians were killed in the world, 1,922 were imprisoned and 793 churches were targeted. These are the numbers contained in the 2018 report published by Portes Ouvertes - Open Doors, and the reference period goes from November 2016 to October 2017 with an increase of 150 percent compared to the previous year, so the phenomenon is largely growing and we believe that it must be decidedly adhered to. Let us add that another issue on which we call for this House to speak in order to include it as an issue on which the Commission will have a specific address is the issue of surrogacy which, for our idea, for our values, should become a universal crime because the fact that a child is conceived through a commodification of the body of women and perhaps of women who are economically weak in order to meet the (disputable) needs of the rich Westerners, we believe that it is a clear violation of human rights and the dignity of the person. Thus, more generally speaking of motherhood and the defence of life, we think that this Commission should be concerned from conception to natural death also with the protection of the dignity of the person and the human rights of people not born or just born or of people who are too weak and sick towards the end of life. That is why, with the inclusion and approval of this agenda, we believe that legitimate mistrust could also be eliminated, even in the light of what has happened in recent years. Finally, I would add that it is also through the work of the Commissions that preceded us in previous legislation, or in any case a certain cultural climate that has been introduced in Italy the crime of torture that today puts the Forces of the Order on the bench of the accused instead of defending, applauding and supporting them in their work of repression of crime and violence in the streets. From this point of view, I repeat, I hope that my colleagues in the other groups will also agree with our approach, that they will approve our agenda and therefore accept these issues as an enrichment of the motion and of the themes presented to the attention of the Senate Assembly by the proposers and therefore ensure that this Commission can represent in a broader way all the sensitivities present in this House and above all have a comprehensive view of the issue of human rights. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Provisional Board for the Verification of Powers has informed you that, in accordance with Article 19 of Legislative Decree No 533, the allocation of the seat vacant in the Lombardy Region following the resignation of Senator Lara Magoni, has found, in today's sitting, that the candidate who immediately follows the last of the elected in the progressive order of the list to which the aforementioned senator belonged is Gianpietro Maffoni. I therefore give the Provisional Council an act for the verification of the powers of this communication and I proclaim Senator Gianpietro Mafffoni. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]] I warn you that the 20-day deadline for any complaints will begin today with regard to the new proclamation.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u25	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, with regard to the Junta, I would like to say that I have not been summoned, I have not been called. I was right here. The sitting of the Assembly has not been interrupted, as always when meetings of the Council are taking place. I was waiting for the announcement. You've had the meeting of the Junta without the 5 Star Movimento member, and that can't be done, President. I was exactly ten feet away, sitting here. And since they said so, I was waiting for the announcement in this House and the interruption of the work of this House, as has always been the case for five years, as was done at the beginning. I hear the argument and I'm quiet. Not even a call or a phone call. My phone's in my pocket. Nothing. Just a text. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u26	Senator Giarrusso, we will do the proper checks and in the meantime I also thank you for giving us an account of having received a text. In addition, if you were in this House, you were a member of the Council, and the House was informed. However, in the course of the sitting we will have the appropriate checks on the matter which you have put to us. Before continuing further, Senator Urso, if he so wishes, may speak before the final explanations of vote on the subject which he has pointed out to me. In this case, it could intervene, so that it is also an acceptable time for the subject that it wanted to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u27	I declare the debate open. She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u28	Mr President, I do not think there is a time when we can lower our guard on human rights, even though we believe that we are living - not only at national level but also at international level - at a particularly fortunate time, compared to other historical periods, for the protection of human rights. In fact, this perception can move us to forget that, sometimes, the protection of human rights is important: in fact, the failure to respect these rights is inserted in folds unknown to us, or perhaps to us known, but that, since they do not concern us personally and directly, perhaps because taken from the great frenetic rhythms of our daily life, we tend to forget. When we speak, in fact, of human rights, we do not refer "only" to the great issues that have concerned human rights in our country and in the world, but we also talk, for example, about all the new forms of slavery, which are nestled in our everyday life, also in our country. In fact, we are also talking about the right of unaccompanied minors and minors without a parental figure and we are talking about the exploitation of child labour, which is not a phenomenon so far from us: some journalistic investigations remind us how in some regions of our country - I use this term referring not to the regions in the administrative sense, but to some areas of the country - this scourge is still present. We are talking about the protection of the rights of minors within prisons, but also about the protection of adults within prisons, if we believe that for an adult that of detention is a time of recovery, re-education and return of an active resource to the community, where possible. So you see, ladies and gentlemen, that at times when we think it is less necessary to talk about human rights, or when we ask ourselves why we still need to talk about human rights today, we need to think about these and many other things, which deserve attention. In addition to this, we remember that Parliament has among its prerogatives not only to legislate, but also to carry out a monitoring and control function on the policies carried out by governments and by Parliament itself. Therefore, the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights - perhaps it would be good to add - for the monitoring of respect for and respect for human rights - falls within these functions, these prerogatives of control and monitoring, which are very important prerogatives of our Parliament, if we want to understand how to proceed and how to proceed along this path.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u29	I invite you to conclude, Senator Montevecchi.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u30	Montevecchi (M5S). I conclude by recalling - and this is not an intrinsic motivation, but an ancillary motivation that perhaps also gives strength to the constitution of this extraordinary Commission in the eighteenth legislature - that 2018 is a very important year for at least two anniversaries: the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which was adopted by the United Nations Assembly seventy years ago (10 December 1948), and the seventy years of our Constitutional Charter, which not only in Article 2 but - in watermark - in all the articles declaring fundamental principles and also in subsequent ones, reminds us of how important it is not to lower the guard on human rights. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u31	Senator Iori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, after one of the darkest moments in our history, as has been pointed out by the previous speech, namely after the horrors of the Second World War, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948) was approved by the United Nations General Assembly: this year marks the anniversary of seventy years. The fundamental rights were affirmed, the dignity of every person without distinction of race, color, sex, language, religion, political opinion, national or social origin. My question is, how much remains of these universal principles in our time? Perhaps the answer is found in the preamble to that Declaration, where it was said: "Everyone and every organ of society strives to promote, through teaching and education, respect for these rights and freedoms." I repeat, through teaching and education. I think we should start from here, from the idea that education is never a private fact, but it is always a public and political fact. I believe that it is no longer time to remain silent in the face of the pedagogy of indifference and hatred that is spreading, the banality of evil, as Hannah Arendt would say, already quoted by Senator Segre. Too many citizens are addicted, even through the messages of the web, to denigrate the feelings of human solidarity, to affirm a culture of individualism and oppression, based on thinking of themselves. This, then, is again a dark season for human rights, because "America first" or "Italians first" means that others come after, that the latter have no rights and are only an impediment or a threat, so we can trample them on; the right is of the strongest. Then there is a great need to reaffirm human rights, if the existences of the desperate are useful to obtain political consensus in the name of a depreciated zero tolerance; if the lives of the migrants of Aquarius or the desperate screams of the children locked up in a cage by the Trump administration, separated from their imprisoned parents, do not move indignation and pity. This is not goodness: let us not lose the ability to be indignant when human rights are ignored or violated. We have come to prevent NGO ships from saving lives, children and pregnant women. Every day, racist, violent, homophobic languages and thoughts are revived. Every day, the sovereignist policy of closing the ports, of the forbidden rescue, of the ruspe and censuses for the Roma, of the "masters" in our home, of the "defend ourselves with the weapons," is questioning the basic principles of humanity. And what about the fake news about the crimes of psychiatric patients, precisely against the Basaglia law, on its anniversary? Do we want to re-produce the handles? And the disabled, who after eighty years of struggle for inclusion, denounce the danger of being ghettoized. Polis culture is politics, not collective selfishness, because it calls into question the public ethics that is ethical of responsibility and construction of civilizations. These are the roots of our own culture. I remind you, colleagues, that already in the Iliad, in book XI, it is told that Patroclo, even in the fury of the battle, saw Euripilo and took him to safety because he saw him and had compassion for him. That's what Homer said. Him, too? And in the Gospel we talk about that guy, that Samaritan, a simple man who meets a stranger robbed and beaten and, without so many because, took care of him. He didn't go any further. He didn't turn on the other side. He just saw it. I believe that demagogy and disinformation produce that addiction that really prevents us from seeing. We need a collective ethical and cultural effort. Learning humanity is possible. A giant sign in the Barbiana school proposed the opposite motto to indifference: "I care" (I care). In that school it was taught that the category of rights does not concern individuals, but the whole community because it comes together is politics. Human rights violations remain too numerous. Let us start spreading an education that is an instrument of social, civil and moral growth. Let's start from here. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u33	Senator Conzatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u34	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, my speech concerns human dignity. Dignity as a presupposition of the value that politics aims to create for society. All the colleagues present are united by an awareness: politics is something sacred. It is absolute, it is for us. At the origin of our civilization, for those who invented the idea of democracy, the place that housed the sacred was the Greek temple. A temple that is based on the columns, as well as politics is based on values. We can believe in different values, and different values create different visions; but we all share the desire to build from the foundation. In politics we talk about values, as in the temples we admire the columns, often taking for granted the foundation on which those columns lay. That foundation is respect for human dignity, and when we lack respect, we run the risk of building temples on the sand. Thanks therefore to Senator Emma Bonino and the many proposers of the motion, who have created the conditions to bring to the present the centrality of human dignity. To say no today to the establishment of an extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights means to deny our past and the foundations that have led each of us to make policy. To say yes today is to protect the diversity of opinion, because diversity is wealth; to say yes is to sanction the transition from rhetoric policy to reality policy. To say yes today means to return to the world, to Europe, with a role as conscious protagonists of the values that matter most. Speaking at this level - which may seem philosophical - it is also easy to agree; however, we should have the intellectual honesty to tell us that we are building temples on mine ground, if we do not reconnect the daily debate, sometimes harsh, to the fundamentals. If we do not start again from human dignity, the issue of immigration, which is now at the heart of a closed debate between goodness and brutality, risks blowing up Europe, as well as blowing up the good practices of multilateralism. The problem of immigration is not immigrants, it is not human beings. The problem, if anything, is the authority of Italy at the international summits and European tables; it is its ability to mediate - as a founding country - between the needs of the Member States; it is the will to approve fair rules and respected by all. As long as the issue of immigration is used as an instrument of consensus and not as an issue of coexistence and rules, we will be late in making politics, the only policy that solves problems. The same policy that does not discriminate and allows the right to life, giving services to families and opportunities to generations. The policy that allows women natural presence and natural right of speech: in politics, in economy and in society. The policy that does not deny the existence of people on the basis of the type of affectivity chosen. That policy that knows how the dignity of the person passes from the possibility of having a work project and knows it so well that it collaborates - without hindering - who generates the work. Today we are asked to clean up the political ground, to start from the foundations, to give life to a new season, starting precisely from that human dignity that is the central theme. This is the subject of the motion we are debating, to which I say yes and I call on the House to do the same. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u35	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u36	Mr President, I believe in the need to set up an extraordinary Commission for the protection and promotion of human rights. I believe it is appropriate to set up in the Senate a body to monitor the state of protection of the rights of the person and their promotion within and beyond national borders. This means, especially at this complex historical moment, paying due attention also to what happens at sea with trafficking in human beings. I believe in the need, at this time more than ever, to open an in-depth reflection on the serious violations of human rights that have been taking place for a long time now in the illegal management of immigration in Italy, in Europe and especially in the countries of Africa, with real centres of detention, slavery and torture. Meanwhile, while in Europe the institutional confrontation does not open up to real shared solutions and with too much difficulty we try to reason on new models of reception and management of a phenomenon that must be evaluated in all its complexity and finally faced with structural solutions, is happening an intolerable arm of iron, on the one hand and on the other, on the lives of thousands of people, because the confusion - as Mattarella said - is enemy of the solution. I hope that, among the Commission's first commitments, there will be a detailed analysis and evaluation of the state of respect for and protection of human rights, a patrimony of humanity, to date, starting from the 1948 Paris Declaration, which our Constitution, in Article 2, recognizes and guarantees, up to the mandatory European Conventions and international regulations, in the complexity of the changing human condition that poses us new and increasingly difficult challenges. I hope that the Commission will deepen the state of human rights in Libya, where migrants embark, after crossing the desert. On Libya we must reconstruct a story of truth, which starts from the testimonies of those who lived the Libyan lager, also endorsed, directly or indirectly, by the agreements made by previous governments. The Extraordinary Commission on Human Rights of the previous legislature has rightly paid attention to interventions aimed at correcting discriminatory language forms in official documents, such as the voice "Zingari" in the form of the Forces of Order or the word "clandestine" in some institutional sites. I believe that, to the same extent, the Commission must now be attentive to the toxic and violent narratives, which are very often disseminated through social media, because language builds reality, the model and can become a generator of discrimination, which unfortunately is becoming increasingly widespread in our country. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Nugnes. NUGNES (M5S). I conclude: words can trigger fear and very often it is from fear that rejection is born and in the end racism. These are dangerous narratives that can only be opposed by the force of culture and widespread knowledge. It is good that this Commission helps to deconstruct the distorted image that the enemy wants to see in the different from us. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u37	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am starting from a consideration which may seem trivial, but it is not, for the subject we are debating. Human rights stem from certain rights acquired through citizenship. So, those aren't equals. Human rights, on the other hand, are fundamental rights. That is what the Commission is going to have to discuss, examine and monitor today. That is why we could define the agenda presented by Senator Marsilio, which I have listened carefully, out of the question. The agenda is about human rights, that is, fundamental rights, which belong to a different genius of rights. The fees are not zero sum and are not zero cost. The only rights at zero cost and zero sum are fundamental rights, for the reason that was mentioned in the second speech before mine, which contains the origin of Western civilization - and I would like to say, the origin of civilization - precisely in the words of those who cited the Iliad. There is no doubt that rights also change their way and change their mark. I imagine that the Commission, which has explained Senator Bonino, will have to deal, for example, with two major issues which represent an extraordinary novelty; in fact, if it is true that democracy has taken shape also in countries and states that did not know it, it is equally true that democracy is in emergency in States that can rightly be considered the founders of democratic freedoms and parliamentary democracy. That is why the Commission that we are going to set up will have to work to counter and hinder all those various forms of regurgitation and intemperance towards the different that manifest themselves with excessive everyday life. But, at the same time, that Commission will also have to ensure that the forms of multiculturalism that we have experienced in recent years (I am talking about those which are detrimental to the fundamental rights of the person) do not reappear again. I quote four cases: in Italy the infibulation is forbidden; in Italy forced marriage is forbidden; in Italy the courts of sharia are forbidden; in Italy one lives according to the equal rights between men and women. We are talking about the dimensions of fundamental rights that could appear unknown to their origin, but that today, like bioethics, like what is the door of technology, must be decidedly evaluated. If we wrote that among the tasks of the Commission it is absolutely essential to recognize the right not to emigrate, perhaps we would be lucky enough to have Leonardo's Gioconda among us but we would not know the clove, we would not know cinnamon, we would not know the great English or French travellers of the Grand Tour, who came, settled and lived in Italy. We will create, that is, an autarchic society that would be the first to perish, as were the autarchic and nationalist societies the first to die in the course of history. The first empires that fall are those that imprint in their codes the right not to emigrate, that is not to travel, that is, the right not to know. These points, as they were written and presented by Senator Bonino, satisfy me. They satisfy me because they write the general framework in which the Commission must move. Everything that needs to be added will depend, as in all the other Commissions (special or ordinary is of no importance), on the work, on the timing, on the ways and the arguments that the Bureau of the Commission will establish. Nothing is excluded, provided it belongs to the chain of fundamental rights, that is, to the rights of humanity; otherwise it would have no meaning to mention the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, it would have no meaning to mention the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union drawn up, signed and launched in the European Parliament, it would have no meaning to create Commissions like this one; it would be better, then, to do without it. Mr President, starting with the conclusion, I continue to think that there is a need for this, in the forms laid down and shared by the Presidents of the parliamentary groups who signed the first-signed motion by Senator Emma Bonino. That is why I am going to vote in favour of the constitution of this Commission and that is why I hope and hope that, after a long period of time (because the golden period of fundamental rights dates back to the late 1940s and the early 1950s), it will be possible to resurrect a phase that has the characteristics of those Italian pioneers of whom to be proud, senators and Members then included. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u39	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u40	Mr President, the Brothers of Italy Group, for its vision of life and the world and for the historically social vocation of its policy, could not fail to share the practice and concept of protecting and promoting fundamental human rights. Brothers of Italy argues that an extraordinary Commission such as that which is the subject of the motion in question is necessary, indeed we propose an interpretation which I would define as extensive in matters of interest; instead we do not believe that a Commission is needed for how it has been used and has carried out so far some of its activities. The first exception is therefore not on the substance, although, as we shall explain, the Commission has forgotten and penalised some crucial issues of interest and some fundamental rights, as we shall see, and these rights are therefore denied. However, the first objection we make is in the method, for a deficit recorded in the previous experiences of a Commission that was established in the 14th legislature and remained active until the 17th legislature. So let's take a step back and then try to take a step forward. I am speaking of a step backwards because, in particular, the Commission which has been working in the 17th legislature, as can be seen from the report on the activities I have read (about 90 pages), gives us a picture that generates a suspicion - forgive me - of the Commission's political use, if not even in some passages a political exploitation of human rights, as if there were some kind of copyright on human rights, naturally invisible but solid, by the forces of the left. The report says that among the activities carried out, among others, the issue of the death penalty in the world, the protection of the fundamental rights of the child, cyberbullying, the fight against trafficking in human beings, the fight against discrimination, homophobia and xenophobia. I would just like to make a few details, because it is useful: four pages are devoted to the missions of the Commission, five to Roma, synthesized and walking, eight pages to prison matters. On this last point, I would like to make an appreciable reference to the problem of mothers inmates and denounce the deplorable absence of the issue of the conditions in which the prison police operate every day in our prisons. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP, L-SP Groups]] Again, five pages to cases of exemplifying species of human rights violations, nine pages to international engagement and a part on the introduction of the torture crime. Nothing on the assaults suffered by the law enforcement forces and the aforementioned prison police forces. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and L-SP groups.]] But let's move on. Therefore, if the regulatory framework of reference that the motion indicates - which, as has been recalled, is constituted by the Conventions that there are, from 1948 until 1984 - it draws a necessary legislative perimeter, which we share because it is an objective given, there are however critical issues such as the overlapping of powers with Italian and supranational structures, but above all there are missing - and here comes the so to speak delicate part of my intervention - some fundamental issues. These shortcomings are, in our view, the result of the above-mentioned political exploitation of the issue of human rights and an almost deformed and deformating view with which to look at, address, promote and protect them. Precisely in terms of rights - I have to give examples - there is no reference to the rights of the unborn child, the primary law. There is no mention of surrogacy - and we must stress this - as Mr Marsilio has already done. In fact, we must be careful because, beyond what we think, it is a practice that exploits the body of women and that also generates the most hateful of discrimination, that of the rich against the poor, that is, those who can afford to rent the uterus of a poor woman against those who cannot. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and L-SP groups.]] It is therefore a practice to be prohibited, in our view, as a criminal commodification, as a crime. There is still a complete lack of the right to religious freedom and worship because the activities carried out completely lack the recognition of the persecutions of Christians in the world, against priests, against the faithful and against the churches. There is no perception of the climate of intolerance and hatred that exists in the world against the Christian faith. Figures have been given, I will not repeat them, but I would like to remind you of the persecutions of minorities. Boko Haram exterminates the Christian minority in Nigeria. I also remember the killings in Syria and Iraq totally forgotten, including children and, again, the exodus of those Christian minorities forced to escape. In short, a crime against humanity that there is no trace of in the Commission's activities. We think it is necessary to introduce this aspect as well and to give centrality to this issue because, unlike others, we do not accept that in some countries Islam prosecutes the religions of others, admits the crime of apostasy and the condemnation to death for those who leave the Muslim faith. We are talking and we want to put at the centre of this debate the right to religious freedom, a fundamental, universal, inalienable right, linked to the right to religious identity. I would like to remind myself and the House of just one case for the many silent and forgotten: I am referring to the case of Asia Bibi, the 45-year-old Pakistani mother who has been detained for nine years in a prison on the charge of blasphemy against Muhammad. There is also a large quarter absent, which is what surprised me most when I read the report on the activities carried out: the issue of violence against women. With the exception, in fact, for the chapter on female genital mutilation and the chapter on trafficking in human beings for occupational sexual exploitation, there is no mention, even in the regulatory framework - and it cannot be a forgetfulness, but a will - of the Istanbul Convention against violence against women and domestic violence, Convention that our country, Italy, was among the first to ratify in June 2013. [[Senator Cirinna's comments.]] And, if in the report of the activities carried out - I mean, because it helps us to contextualize - the word "immigration" appears 28 times, plus 8 the word "migrants," the word "woman" and the reference to its rights appear only 13 times. Similarly, there is no explicit reference to the historic Beijing Conference in 1995, which finally sanctioned and, once and for all, that women's rights are not women's rights, but are fundamental human rights and, therefore, central to the Commission we are debating. And not a word - I'm sorry, but I didn't find it - about brides girls and forced marriages. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and L-SP Groups]] Not a word about rape used as tactics and a weapon of war. Not a word, yet, about those women stoned for adultery, those veiled and invisible women who are stoned on the street for adultery. Not a word about the so-called self-immolated Afghan women, those women who make flashlights to escape violence and abuse. And I could continue: not a word about sex tourism, not a word about child pornography, the exploitation of girls, the reduction in slavery. I'm going to finish, because I'm afraid I won't get back in time. You see, ladies and gentlemen, we do not want to argue, because we do not discuss human rights; we want to contribute to extending the spectrum of action and activities of the Commission. Why is that? Not only for that vision of life and of the world to which I referred at the opening of this my and our intervention; but because for Brothers of Italy there are no A series rights and B series rights. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and L-SP Groups]] There is a right to rights and there must be a guarantee of equal access to rights established and established at international level, without dumping, without exclusion and without discrimination. No exclusion is admissible. And then Brothers of Italy calls for the Commission to extend and deal explicitly with the rights of the unborn child and surrogate motherhood as a crime and to commit itself against the persecutions of Christians in the world. Brothers of Italy therefore proposes an intense and extensive interpretation of the theme of human rights and rejects any political exploitation of the dignity of the person, because human rights are not negotiable by anyone. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and L-SP groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u41	Senator Messina is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, setting up a Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights responds to the need for a nation to re-establish a high-profile institutional reference point, which values and in a certain sense rediscovers our principles, in particular those of our best history, by relaunching what Italy has been able to offer, even at international level, not only to legal culture, but to conscious democracy. That conscious democracy that is not based on the impulses of the moment or on the scientifically induced fears and that instead reflects on itself giving itself a long-term perspective, also regulatory. The Senate of the Italian Republic has its own and authoritative tradition in the defence of human rights, if already in the previous legislature the Commission established and presided over by Senator Luigi Manconi has carried out a fruitful work, allowing today to reconnect the lines of a reasoning of continuity and at the same time of novelty, dictated by the new emergencies and the sudden change of international scenarios. Today, more than ever, it is necessary and urgent to re-establish the conditions for grasping the profound cultural fact represented, beyond petitions of principle and declamations, by the gap still existing between the Constitution and reality, between what constitutes the foundation of the State on the one hand and the rights not recognized or even denied on the other. And this is not a political exploitation. As Pope Francis says, the freedom to help others in a humanitarian spirit must always be protected. But it is not only from the Gospel that this principle derives; it derives from a constitutional law, which expresses the fundamental principle of fraternity and which still obliges our Republic today to guarantee the inviolable rights of man, requiring everyone to fulfil the indispensable duties of solidarity. The harmony between moral and legal duties should be evident. The force of the law is added to that of ethics, solidarity with the force of law. The establishment of the Commission, all of us, should reflect on the substantive negations. On the issues of illegitimate law (which may seem to be a contradiction in terms) and illegitimate power. The guarantee that rights are always respected must be reaffirmed and strengthened, and this guarantee does not only go through legislation, although renewed, but must be combined with an operational phase that is the result of technical and regulatory inspiration and constructive practices, as well as examples. This commitment will certainly represent the figure of the institution of the Commission, which in this way would also reaffirm the educational value of its functions, thus revitalizing the weight of human rights, giving strength not to the utterances, but to the modalities of implementation. History, even our history, teaches that the powers of public order can interfere, even arbitrarily, with personal freedom; economic powers often conflict with freedom in the world of work and with the protection of the environment; the powers of jurisdiction may conflict or not be consistent with the highest law of the State or with international laws. The value of the Commission for the protection and promotion of human rights will then be realized precisely in an operation that is not tarnished by an ideological preliminary ruling, but rather in the field of honest and proactive reflection. There will always be - let us not hide it - a certain dose of distance between the norms and the concrete fact. Europe and therefore Italy would betray their nature and culture if they did not focus on the repetition of violations that must be highlighted; they would flatten themselves, giving up being the ideal and complex place where the rights of democracy are effectively protected and promoted. In such a difficult time, in which we are besieged by problems and emergencies of a world order, even of an economic nature, where consumption cannot be the only reference of progress, we must recover the sense and feeling of national and international, overcoming a small welfare, and rather guaranteeing a life of humanity through the same rights. The choice for fundamental rights also implies the need to put oneself in the perspective of the weakest, i.e. those who are dissatisfied with those rights. To resume to consider history from the point of view of the oppressed, the last, thus gaining a new immense perspective of the human world. In finding our reasons there will be a serious and responsible commitment. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u43	Senator Saponara is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Senate of the Republic, when it comes to human rights, the call to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights issued in 1948 is inevitable; a document of thirty articles which requires a quick reading, but which after seventy years, despite its clarity and simplicity of language, has not yet found an application as fast, so much so that in time additional instruments have become necessary to ensure the protection of human rights. To date, despite the extensive human rights legislature, we are still in a position to stimulate and raise awareness of their protection. In this way, the motion brought to the attention of Parliament which obliges us to reflect on the ugliness of the weakest; ugliness that is not said, that is not said and that is likely to remain unsaid if politics does not move unanimously in one direction to give a solution to the abuses that limit the human rights of many, or even the right to life. Renewing the sensitivity that the Senate of the Republic has shown on this subject in the previous legislatures, the establishment of an extraordinary Commission for the protection and promotion of human rights is therefore well to come. It is, however, spontaneous to urge the members of this assembly to protect all human rights and not just some, because there is no secondary human right to another; rather, be careful that it is not the rights of some who override those of others. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] When it comes to protecting the rights of the child, I cannot help but think, for example, of the right not granted to more than 6 million children to come to the world in Italy since 22 May 1978 because of a law that clearly violates Article 3 of the Declaration of Human Rights, the right to life. [[Applause from the L-SP, FI-BP and FdI Groups]] Well, I hope that the establishment of this Commission will lead to the revision of an old law and in many parts to be revised and that it is certainly not in favour of life. When it comes to the ban on the mutilation of female genitals, I cannot help but think of all those women who, although not offended by physical mutilation, are mutilated in their souls. I am specifically talking about women exploited in prostitution or exploited for their wombs, forced by their poverty to sell their bodies or children. Therefore, I hope that the establishment of this Commission, also proposing missions abroad, will work to preserve the dignity and human rights of women, fighting a practice, that of the uterus for rent, absolutely outlawed according to the law n. 40 of 2004, article 12, paragraph 6, which reads: Anyone who, in any form, realizes, organizes or advertises the marketing of gametes or embryos or the surrogacy of motherhood is punished with imprisonment from three months to two years and with the fine from 600,000 to one million euros. [[Applause from the L-SP, FI-BP and FdI Groups]] Let this Commission therefore endeavour to ensure that the prostitution of free choice is regulated by regulations and that the exploitation of free choice is properly pursued and brought to justice with certainty of condemnation. When we talk about combating trafficking in human beings, I cannot help but think about how, behind a form of humanitarian protection, there is often a real trade in people to be placed on the market for drugs, crime, prostitution, underpaid black labour. Well, I hope that the Commission will investigate and trace back to the origins of real illicit trafficking of human beings in order to eradicate at the root this evil and not put unnecessary palliatives, which all they do is urge other businesses. What dignity do those people have who, under seeming benevolence, seem to be rescued when they are actually enslaved? And again, when we talk about human rights, I cannot help but think of all those Italians who live in poverty (over 5 million), of whom many elderly people, who live their poverty with much shame and deprived of the dignity to which they would be entitled. I don't know if any of you have ever seen an elder with tears in his eyes come and ask for help from the community social services saying that he hasn't eaten for two days and that he has deprived himself of everything to pay rent and bills [[Applause from the L-SP, FI-BP and FdI Groups]] I guarantee you they are truly pitiful scenes. These are just a few examples to say that, speaking of human rights, one cannot help but think about the situations that our life experience has put before us and in which we cannot be indifferent and which we cannot forget. I should therefore like to conclude by saying that an extraordinary Commission for the protection and promotion of human rights is well here, provided that it takes account of everyone's different sensibilities towards one problem rather than another, without neglecting anyone, and that it is not reduced to a flag to be waved just to make our consciences appear clean. [[Applause from the L-SP, FI-BP and FdI Groups]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u45	Mr President, we are about to vote and therefore to set up the Commission for the protection and promotion of human rights. I will vote in favour, but I believe that there is no doubt on the part of anyone about the vote in favour. I think the doubts concern, rather, those that will be the contents, the choice of objectives and the modalities for their achievement, but all this I believe will largely be entrusted to the people who will compose it and guide it and will concern the concrete choices that will be made. What emerges in this debate, which I have really listened to with great interest from the outset, is an element of the past. I made a very small historical survey of myself, which showed that the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights has been set up since the 13th legislature and that different issues have been addressed each time. For example, in the 16th legislature, the Commission committed itself to protecting the rights of Roma people and migrants. In addition to the survey on human rights levels and mechanisms, the Commission adopted some important resolutions in the 17th legislature covering basically three areas: disabled people, the tariff nomenclator, migrants, CARAs, CIEs, Roma and Sinti. What emerged today is not a no to those rights. What has emerged today with great clarity and I would also say, indeed, with a political and geographical representation of this House, is the absolute demand, on the part of this branch of Parliament, of which I also belong and in which I recognize myself with many of the formations, for a rereading in depth of what is the right to life. Let me give you an example. We have all been moved in the last few days, in front of television, for the story of the 12 children trapped in the cave in Thailand. We have considered the setting in motion of more than 100 divers and speleologists of the highest quality to save the lives of each of them. We also call for this to be done through respect for the right of the sea. But we know that the right to life is trampled on in many other ways. For example, not only at birth, but also through the problem of hunger in the world, discrimination in access to therapies and discrimination in those life forms that truly define human dignity. We all know that there are four fundamental parameters that have always been recognized when it comes to human rights: dignity, freedom, equality and fraternity. Perhaps it is the fraternity that we read more easily with the name of solidarity and that more urges the resources of the heart, but less those of intelligence, mind and organization. But this also happened historically. Many of us will remember that, after the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, States were summoned for further codification of human rights. It was not possible to resolve this issue with a single document, but it was necessary to draw up two documents: the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. Gentlemen, the latter must be waited for more than thirty years. I believe that up to now we have committed the extraordinary Commission to the full on civil and political rights (land on which much remains to be done), but great, infinite and almost unexplored is the field that concerns economic, social and cultural rights. Among the cultural rights, of course, I also include freedom of religion. I too am scandalized by the story of Asia Naurin Bibi, because it seems incredible that the crime of blasphemy can still find room in many places, otherwise with all the manipulations it involves. In the same way, we all know of the last dramatic events that have occurred not only in Syria, but in all the countries of the Middle East, where Christians have been driven out of lands that occupied for centuries and in which they had contributed to the spread of culture and civilization. We really support every person's right to freedom of religion and his/her own space, the right to non-migration alongside the right to migration, within the limits and times set and agreed upon by the agreements. We stand before those who have been called not epochal changes, but epochal changes. Human rights must also be revisited in this logic and structure. There is one thing that seems important to me: we are all willing to believe and claim that human rights are universal and concern all men of all times and places. But how is it possible to support such a thing if we prescind from the definition that they are human rights in the meantime as all of us human beings share the same nature of man? And then it is the concept of nature, which immediately refers to what is natural law, must truly become the foundation of all other rights. We can't help it. The Commission will have to revisit, among the battles it has already fought, those that are still to be explored and there is no doubt that one of the battles that we will conduct (and we will do it to the end) will be for the right of children to have a family and not the right of a woman or a man to have a child because the right of the child prevails, in some way, to have the context that best defines its best living conditions. So there will be a change in this Commission. The Commission will be there, it will have to be a committee for guaranteeing and protecting human rights, it will have to read the historical change and the changes that have taken place and it will have to assume the responsibilities that it has not assumed so far. So let the Commission come along. We will vote in favour of the motion but then we will vote in this Commission for a change that takes into account what has been silenced so far. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u46	She's registered to speak with Senator Pacific. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I have signed this motion, but I think I have some thoughts to make. While I welcome the commitment to set up the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection of Human Rights, I believe that in recent years many steps have been taken on this issue. Italy has always promoted and implemented the guidelines drawn up by international bodies; we have often dictated the agenda ourselves. Therefore, from an internal point of view, we can certainly say that the guarantee of human rights in our country is widely respected. Moreover, for us Europeans, the motion we are debating is already defined and has the contours of the Council of Europe and, specifically, of the European Court of Human Rights, without forgetting the International Criminal Court of The Hague. If the issue we are debating today is included in the framework of European and UN sharing, to create a overlap here in the Senate and then also at national level with the establishment of a National Commission for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights required by UN Resolution No 48/134 of 1993 certainly does not affect the work of these bodies, but does not help them either. In some ways, I believe it weighs down the budget of the Senate and the State. The speech would be different if the Commission's possible birth could indicate a way and give some suggestions for remodulating the immigration regulations as well as on gender-based violence and also on prison matters. We could thus respond to the recommendations of the Universal Periodic Review that the United Nations Human Rights Council has noted from reports sent by the Interministerial Committee on Human Rights but there will always be the doubt that we must necessarily pose ourselves. Can we, for example, get past the famous 41- bis, the hard prison for the mobsters? Some say yes, but a lot of people think otherwise. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u48	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motion and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say that the government, as it should be, is going back to the vote of this House. However, I would like to say first of all that the national state system is already very advanced in terms of human rights, but that is not why, as we have seen in the debate, we must lower our guard. Therefore, it is important that there is a debate on human rights. The Government shares the values and content of the motion before the Assembly and notes with pleasure that there is a transversality on this issue. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u50	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u53	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, we hope that the proposed motion by Senator Emma Bonino, signed by many colleagues and representatives of the Government, will be adopted by the vote of all the parliamentary groups. For advanced democracies, the issue of human rights must be in the front row. Beyond individual laws in different states, they form the fundamental moral bases for regulating the geopolitical order. Unfortunately, the rapid progress of respect for human rights in the Western nations has not had parallel progress throughout the world. In many parts, the four human rights that the UN claims to be the most important - the rights to life, freedom from slavery, freedom from torture, and non-retroactivity of prosecution - are not respected. Italy has always shown great commitment to these issues, such as the moratorium on the death penalty approved by the UN Assembly, but it has shown some delay in setting up independent bodies compared to other European countries. I know that a draft law has been deposited in the House of Deputies in recent days which aims to fill this gap and I hope that the same will be done in the Senate. The commitment is especially important now, for the delicate phase we are going through: on the one hand there is the crisis of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, after the announcement of the withdrawal of the United States from the UN Council; on the other hand there are migratory flows, which are not just a matter of quotas to be distributed between the various countries or of reforming the Dublin Agreement, but of human beings who have their dignity. Especially on the African continent, many countries know dictatorships where the rights of individuals are trampled on. All this must not be forgotten when we judge migrants who are trying to find salvation in Europe: let us not forget that the right to asylum is also a humanitarian right. It is important that, in contrast to the tones that have recently been felt in relation to migration problems, there is a Commission that will, among other things, have the task of raising awareness about the problems and the situation of people fleeing from countries whose state of backwardness is also the product of colonialism and economic exploitation. European and Italian reasons for the management of the phenomenon cannot put absolute and universal principles in the background. These are issues that must never come into conflict and deserve the same attention and importance. The Law on the Protection of Unaccompanied Foreign Minors was passed in the last parliamentary term, but we have not been able to introduce the crime of torture into our legal system. However, this confirms the importance of such a body and the role of leadership and awareness-raising, including in relation to the legislative initiative. For this reason, I reiterate the Group's support for the first-signed motion by Emma Bonino. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u56	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, in this afternoon's debate in this House, perhaps you have pretended that you do not understand the meaning of the Commission's establishment. It is good that we clarify some of the issues. The protection of human rights - we have said this many times, but I want to reiterate this - is one of the fundamental elements not only of some conventions, but is a common heritage of the international community. I would like to recite our Constitution, Mr President, because Article 2 has strongly transposed the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In fact - and here we are talking about the establishment of a parliamentary committee, not a party committee that everyone can do as he wishes - Article 2 reads: The Republic recognizes and guarantees the inviolable rights of man and woman, both as a single person and in the social formations where his personality takes place, and requires the fulfilment of the indispensable duties of political, economic and social solidarity. The aim of our Constituents was very clear: to ensure substantial protection. Now, as in previous legislation, the Commission takes the lead in the articulation of its work on the main issues, from clear and unique references. I would like to reiterate them here: the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the 1948 Convention on Genocide, the 1950 European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the 1951 Convention on Refugees, the 1966 International Human Rights Pacts and the Convention against Torture. I would also remind you that the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, on which the Court of Strasbourg supervises, pursuant to Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union has the same legal value as the founding Treaties, so one of the founding elements of Europe that we like is the protection of human rights, which are the basic element of Western thought and culture, of Christianity and of humanity. I would like to remember that very strongly. It is not that everyone can rewrite human rights and make them their own declination. Certainly we are faced with new challenges, with a more advanced reflection that must be taken into account, but in some moments of today's debate it seemed to me that everyone wanted to rewrite the declination of fundamental human rights in his own image and likeness. It's not like that. Here we are talking about a Commission which will take the form of a parliamentary vote, which will be set up in Parliament (in the Senate in this case), and which will refer precisely to the cornerstones of international conventions and declarations on human rights. That is what we are talking about, and we cannot fail to take this into account. We cannot turn the debate on the establishment of this Commission into something else for which there are other political fora. 18.26 (De PETRIS follow-up). I want to add another point. Is there anyone in this House who can honestly say that there is no need today for a Commission to investigate the violation of human rights, or that the violation of human rights has ceased in the world? Think about what happens not only far in the world, but often very close to us. It is therefore important to give life and strength to this Commission. In fact, having seen the signatures of all the Leaders, I had, and still have, the hope that the Commission will be born of full convergence in this House. Instead, from the very different accents that have manifested themselves in relation to the motion, there is some attempt to decline human rights in their own image and likeness or according to ideological manifestos. That is why I think it is necessary to express such reflections, which are absolutely not consistent with the subject of the Commission's work, which, of course, will have its articulation, its way of building reflections, its capacity for intervention and investigation; but those are the references, that is, the references of our Constitutional Charter - which I mentioned before - which, among other things, are the best essence of Europe. Then something else happened, obviously some expectations were also betrayed, but these are certainly the references. I therefore ask all colleagues not to allow the vote on the motion to turn into a disquisition on ideological manifestos to be opposed to one another. Fundamental human rights are heritage that should be common and refer precisely to international conventions and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Certainly new rights have also come from the French Revolution and, unfortunately - alas - also new violations of rights. Today I believe that no one, in all honesty, can say that we have reached the golden age and that finally that Universal Declaration of Human Rights has found its realization, because every day we signal violations of human rights. In this House, another senator has rightly emphasized the narrative of hatred, which in our contemporary life seems to be surpassing us in recent times. I believe that this too should - indeed - be the subject of a careful reflection and perhaps also of the work of the Commission itself, which perhaps should also represent the possibility of intervention to counter and overcome this narrative, which risks opposing the rights of one another, to wage wars between the rights of series A and the rights of series B. For all these reasons, Mr President, as senators of the LEU component - like the whole of the Mixed Group - we have signed the motion, which we will of course vote with great pleasure and favour. On the other hand, we shall vote against the G1 agenda, and indeed all of us will be asking not to turn the Commission into an ideological war of "A" and "B" rights or a rewriting of rights in its own image and ideological resemblance. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u59	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, we, the Brothers of Italy, are particularly pleased with the course of the debate. A debate that had begun in a discounted way, as if the Commission's reposition - on the founding objectives of which we are of course perfectly in agreement, as any Member of Parliament and political force in this country - was a obvious fact, precisely. I have noticed that Senator De Petris is surprised that there are variations in her own image and likeness. Well, it seems to me that this has happened so far. It has happened, my dear senators - and I am referring above all to the senators of the left who have spoken - that so far the Commission - who knows why? - be shaped in your image and likeness, as if there were in these terms your majesty or your sovereignty. You are surprised that today there is a large majority in this House who believe that your reading, which has been going on for so many years, is not the only and exclusive one in existence. Dear Senator Bonino, you said that after five years you have proposed the same terminology and the same objectives as the Commission. No, after five years, other and more important are the objectives to be addressed by the Commission. Seventy years ago, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights was approved in a context in which much of humanity was subjected to regimes that, in words and sometimes in votes, declared themselves in favour - and it was also written in the Constitution - of the same Declaration; then, in practice, every day religious, civil, political and human rights were trampled on. It is therefore not obvious that what is contained in a Declaration or signed in a Convention and which is part of a Constitutional Charter is then fully practiced. Until now and above all perhaps in the last parliamentary term, since there was a majority of a certain kind, the Commission has moved in a certain way and has done very well Senator Isabella Rauti to demonstrate to you, based on the report of that Commission, that a five-year activity has taken place with missions, debates, problems and solutions in your image and likeness. Today all this no longer belongs to you. Today there are also other parliamentarians from other groups - in addition to the Brothers of Italy who did not exist in the last parliamentary term - who have highlighted important, decisive and decisive aspects for us that the Commission has not dealt with in the last parliamentary term, because you dominated it with a distorted and unambiguous reading of reality, a reading in your resemblance that is not that of Italy today. That's what you need to realize. The intervention of Senator De Petris appears out of place: his astonishment at the fact that we are talking today about persecution of Christians or the rights of the unborn child, or that today we are talking about the right not to emigrate. Senator Nencini, we are not talking about the duty not to emigrate. You deliberately distorted our agenda, where we talk not about the duty not to emigrate, but about the right not to emigrate, because those peoples have the right not to emigrate if the conditions of non-emigration are created. The Commission can and must deal with this. Don't be surprised that we are going to deal with human rights, because you have dealt with it with a distorted vision and you have also shown it in this House. Senator Rauti's speech was particularly enlightening and the proposals made on our agenda by Senator Marsilio are - I hope - shared by the majority of this House. We talk about the right not to emigrate, not the duty not to emigrate: not an obligation, but a freedom that we ask for and is something quite different. We talk about the right of the unborn child to face what is happening, in the face of low cost travel to Warsaw or Ukraine - on which is also being investigated by the Italian judiciary - of those who go to buy a child with the uterus for rent. Who can afford it naturally, perhaps in Ukraine or another country, and on this is even being investigated by the Italian judiciary. So let's talk about the right of the woman not to be forced to sell her uterus to support herself. This is a right of today and there was no yesterday, because yesterday science did not allow it. Today, with the evolution and the new frontier of science, new rights have been born, of which you too must realise, and this House today has taken note, as well as, of course, it has taken note of the right to religious freedom. Until yesterday, until a few years ago, who spoke of persecution of Christians? Today, almost daily, the Supreme Pontiff speaks about this persecution of Christians. And Rome and Italy, the capital of Christianity, can make a Commission on Human Rights that does not talk about persecution of Christians in the world? [[Applause from the FdI and L-SP Groups]] Rome, the capital of Christianity, has the right to do so, also because it was not by chance chosen by the United Nations as the seat of human rights organisations such as FAO. The United Nations Food Organization is based in Rome. And it is based in Rome because a right was recognized in Rome on something that was then fundamental (and in part still is today): nutrition; nutrition as the fundamental right of man not to die of hunger and thirst. Today, the evolution of rights goes further and Rome has a duty to analyze the new frontier of rights, beginning with the persecution of Christians. It surprises me, and in this debate it has emerged, your backwardness on these issues; I say so with serenity and I would like to say so quietly: the backwardness of the left still linked to old patterns on the new frontiers of human rights. You are behind, no longer ahead, and you must realize this if you want to recover awareness and, together, a strategy for the country on these issues. [[Applause from the FdI and L-SP Groups]] Senator Bonino, Senator De Petris, Senator Nencini, on the other hand we noticed an aspect in the debate that we raised (and we are glad that the debate on human rights raised the Italian right) in the speeches of other senators. For example, Senator Saponara spoke about the rights of the unborn child, the right to motherhood and the right to life in Italy. Because the Commission on Human Rights can also deal with prisons (we hope not only in relation to prisoners but also to prison officers, as Senator Rauti said), but I believe that in Italy this Commission should also deal with the right to maternity, which is denied today, and the collapse of motherhood. Italy is the second largest country in the world with the highest rate of elderly people and the collapse of motherhood is certainly an important social phenomenon. As you yourself have noticed and highlighted the right not to be poor in our country. Is it not that to freedom from poverty a human right? You didn't talk about it, and you think it's weird that we're talking about it? Do you, who are on the other side, realize that it is really strange that we are talking about the right not to be poor in Italy and that you have forgotten the poor in Italy? [[Applause from the FdI and L-SP Groups]] There is something you need to be aware of: cultural change, evolution and cultural growth in this country. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Senator Binetti first, sharing our agenda G1, spoke about cultural rights, freedom of religion, the rights of the child to have a family, the right to non-emigration. I believe that this point is important in this debate for nothing. Realize, in fact, that nothing is now taken for granted, not even the fact that this Commission on Human Rights - whoever is chairing it - will have to deal with these issues. We will therefore be present in this Commission - I hope most of all - with these issues. That is why I am asking the groups who have voted in our own direction to vote on the G1 agenda, which will be put to the vote after the motion. Pending that agenda, which is important for us, as a common sensitivity, we shall abstain in the vote on the Commission, even though we fully share it for the new frontiers that it must achieve in order to emancipate this country and to bring it to be a beacon of hope in this field as well. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u60	I didn't interrupt you, Senator Urso, even though your surgery lasted an extra minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u62	You have the right to do so. I'm not gonna let you get the minute, as you're part of the opposition.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u63	FADELI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating and voting on the establishment of the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, which is the subject of a motion from which I have just learned a signature is withdrawn, given the abstention now declared by Senator Urso (and I do not understand why this happens after so many statements made). In the meantime, allow me to say that I would like to thank Senator Bonino, because she has once again demonstrated her political sensitivity, even by recovering all the work that this House had done and that therefore belonged to all the political forces and not just to one side, Senator Urso, because the issue of human rights, their protection and their promotion concerns international conventions and laws, as you know very well; we should all be concerned about this if we do not really want to make ideology. I must say that I had wished (but I have seen that there is now some defiance) that the broad sharing of those who signed motion No 3 - we are among those - preluded to the fact that on this issue, in new times, with new contradictions and a culture that we must also be able to deal with in new terms, we were all in a position to operate - of course - with civilization in comparison within the Commission itself. It is clear that there are opinions, sensibilities, new ways of reading what changes, but the political point is to stay within a complex implementation of all the Declarations, but also of our Constitution to which we refer. I believe that the political quality of the work of this Commission is a very important challenge for everyone, no one and no one excluded. Allow me to say - because this is what is being used or at least I believe that this is the way to do it - that I would like to thank the President of the previous Commission of the 17th Parliament and all its members, who belonged to different political forces, for the work done and which is being delivered to us, that we will use if and how we feel but which is nevertheless important. I also believe that there is an important element missing from the first-signed motion by Senator Bonino, that is, not only to vote in favour of the establishment of the extraordinary Commission, but also to start the process so that it becomes permanent, precisely in order to give a sign of a complex work that must be done and implemented. I believe that these are two very important points and I would like to add a subject in this connection. I too have appreciated some of the elements I have heard in the debate, for example by Senator Binetti, precisely because there are further and new Conventions that this Commission must implement in concrete terms, including in terms of new human rights: I am thinking of the 2030 Agenda, signed by the Government in September 2015, which extends exactly the defence, protection and promotion of human rights also on the ground of economic inequalities, as was said. I believe that we need to innovate and renew our vision and our culture in order to truly address the protection of human rights. That for human rights is a commitment that Italy has therefore made in all fora, international and European, but it is also strongly written in our Constitution in Article 2; a commitment that, like the others contained in our Charter, we must never cease to defend and make alive, that is, due in fact; equally, we must never give in to the idea that one right comes after another, that there is a hierarchy of rights between political, social, civil and economic, between the third or fourth generation. This is also the new point of the overall reading that comes to us from international fora. Rights are grounded in the very essence of the human person and cannot therefore be divided or placed in order of priority. In the same way we must never stop the battle for their realization because, you see, every time in our societies one is violated, every time we turn to the other side so as not to see or listen, we will all be complicit on this ground and our consciences - I say this, it has already been reiterated in this House and I stress this too - will not be at all pacified, if we simply denounce a series of rights only in a document or a motion. Instead, the daily effort to assert those rights and to make them live in reality will be necessary because everywhere, where a woman, a man, a child or a child, regardless of their differences, feels threatened their own right, there we must be. This is the sense of the political quality of a commitment like this. This applies in particular - and I want to repeat this in this House in a very conscious way and I hope that there will also be a common reading on this - to discrimination against women, because discrimination against women goes through every other discrimination, everywhere and in every case national, European and international. Faced with a modernity that lives on two sides, richness and poverty, innovation and backwardness, centers and suburbs, opulence and hunger, in the face of the conflicts that increase in the world and in our own societies, the protection and promotion of human rights is, in the face of all this, not something obvious, but a challenge that can give strength to a new humanism, understood as a capacity to put the person, women and men at the centre of our reflection and political initiative. So, I want to repeat it, we need a quality of responsibility and political action. The rights and duties we have not only carved them in Declarations, Charters and Conventions: the question we are obliged to ask is whether they really live among us and if we really give everyday substance and for all those beautiful words. We should, I say so quietly, reread together the Universal Declaration of Human Rights - I add women - and every time I stop to think about whether we can really say that those words are implemented and respected from our country. I say this because this is really a way to be international and cosmopolitan. It is the concept of equality that underpins the Universal Declaration that gives great strength to its implementation. Often, in fact, the violation of human rights originates from discrimination, those of which Article 3 of our Constitution so clearly identifies the causes: we do not need to describe them further, they are already there and it is from those discrimination that we must start, if we want to overcome them and really enforce human rights in every condition and in every national, European and international context. Imagining and practicing the equality of starting opportunities means guaranteeing all and all the same rights and duties, regardless of the objective and subjective differences that exist. The rights of those who have no home are violated; the rights of those who are exploited in work are violated; the rights of those who cannot access studies are violated; the rights of the millions of people who cannot be cured, of those who live in poverty, of minors whose lives are marked for faults not their own, of women who are discriminated against, of those who cannot determine their own lives and for this reason they are deprived of freedom. I just want to remind the House, in addition to all the things written in the motion, that there was also a debate in the Senate on the subject of early and forced marriages. I would like this House to recognise that we are talking about rape in that case. That is the fundamental point that we must always oppose. Talking about human rights means talking about us here and now, about Italy, about Europe, about the whole world; it means talking about modern society, about our present and about the future of our generations, and then talking about the quality of democracy. Human rights, therefore, have no boundaries, stand at the head of the person even before the citizen, are rooted in the person. I would like to conclude, Mr President, by recalling with you what Nelson Mandela said in 1993, receiving the Nobel Peace Prize because of his battles against apartheid: This must be a world of democracy and respect for human rights, a world free from the horrors of poverty, hunger, deprivation and ignorance, raised by the threat and scourge of civil wars and external aggressions and freed from the great tragedy of millions of people forced to become refugees. (...) Never let it be said by future generations that indifference, cynicism or selfishness have not brought us to the ideals of humanism that the Nobel Prize brings with it. Ladies and gentlemen, we represent one of the most important institutions of the Italian Republic, one of the most important countries in Europe and the world. We are also entrusted with an important task in this field. We can choose whether this will be the century of fear or hope, closure or solidarity, humanity or selfishness. We can choose to forward the time hands or return them dangerously back. We will measure what our daughters and grandchildren will be tomorrow on exactly how we will address, here and now, all the issues of defence and the promotion of human rights. That is why the Democratic Party votes in favour of this motion, because we will never be indifferent or selfish, and we will vote against the agenda, because it does not respect... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u64	Thank you for your speech, Senator Fedeli. You too have had more than a minute longer than the time at your disposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u67	PEPE (L-SP). Mr President, the League supports the establishment of the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, as well as the launch of the process for the establishment of the relevant permanent Commission. In our view, this is an important tool for the Senate, so that the right light can be lit on human rights and that we can give due attention to those who are weaker, those who are discriminated against and those who are helpless. But it is important to understand the path along which this Commission will carry out its mission, that is, whether along a course that is traced by perbenism, by commonplaces and, in some moments and in some circumstances, also by hypocrisies or along a furrow colored by realism, common sense, courage and values that are not negotiable, starting with that of life from the moment of conception until the moment of natural death. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I apologize, Senator Pepe. Senator Ronzulli, Senator Damiani, I would ask you not to insist on offering the presidency's back, thank you, although I know you trust me. PEPE (L-SP). We think that the first path is an unhappy path, because it could mean that the beginning of Article 1 of the Declaration of Human Rights, that is, all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights, if one were to follow the first path, could become a dead letter. Or the fundamental principles on which the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is based, namely dignity, freedom, equality and brotherhood, could only remain fine words. I would then like to try to give a different cut to those who are human rights and to look within our country, since in some ways this motion, which I remember had been signed by all the Groups and on the street, however, has become an orphan of a Group, has been stimulated also by the outcome of the Universal periodic review 2017, which has redacted Italy and has doubled the recommendations, bringing them from 92 to 187. Let us then look to our country, for example to the system of prisons, to a state where one lives in an inhuman way; and the thought goes not only to those who are in there because they must atone for a prison sentence, but also to those who are in there to work, like our prison police. [[Applause from the L-SP and FdI groups]] It is a situation that goes in a diametrically opposite direction to the mission of the prisons, that is the re-education of those who are held. I would also like to speak in other respects of the migratory phenomenon, which is also considered by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in Article 14, whereas in the first paragraph it states that in the face of persecution (I stress that persecution every individual has the right to seek and enjoy in other countries of asylum (...)......................................................................................................................................................... What then should be done? It is already late to predict both formally and substantially the right not to emigrate because it is right for everyone to grow up, work and become a family where he was born. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] It is a principle, now established, that the less departures there are - all the more so if entrusted to these damned scafisti - the less dead there are in the sea and not only in the sea. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] We must work on international cooperation to improve the conditions of the countries of origin of economic migrants so that they can remain where they were born. With regard to the right of asylum, apart from the fine words, work must be done to speed up the work of the territorially competent committees in order to immediately determine who has the right to remain and who has no right to remain there. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] I want to turn another thought, probably from a different perspective, to what has been done so far in relation to the fight against racism and xenophobia. There is someone, that is in the first place Minister Salvini, who is trying to say and do something important, that is to open the doors to those who really need to come to Italy, to those who run away from the war, starting with women and children. It is clear that we cannot welcome everyone, for physical reasons; it is clear the risk if we go back, which will not happen. In fact, when a country does not feel that it welcomes those who need it, but feels invaded, it runs the real risk of becoming racist and xenophobic. Making a right and focused welcome is also a time to be able to fight this risk that Italy frankly does not run. We also talk about the rights of the child; we talked about the rights of the unborn child, the value of life from conception to death, the child who has the right to have a mother and a father, a male and a female. [[Applause from the L-SP, FI-BP and FdI Groups]] And we are also talking about the protection of women; let us say no firmly to that commodity which is called a rented uterus. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] And I would like to speak for a moment, from the benches of the League among which I honor to sit, although my origin - as the accent, I imagine, has spread - is from South Italy, from South and from work. In announcing that this Government - I am convinced - despite the lines dedicated to the program, will do much more for the South than those who have dedicated poems and poems to it. [[Comments from the PD Group]] , I mean that among human rights, the Universal Declaration also provides for work and declines it in this way: every person has the right to work, to the free choice of his or her employment. And we are talking about the South, about young people who are forced to emigrate or are still victims today, in cases of extreme topicality, of client systems, which not only do not give work, but even force them to escape, completely frustrating the freedom of choice of work. [[Senator Pharaoh's comments.]] Recommendations on which consensus is maintained that will last for a long time, although for a long time they have made the fortune of a ruling class that has mistreated the South, the young and has used work not as value, but as an instrument of electoral consensus. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] I would also like to speak, if we are talking about human rights, given that the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights also refer to equality and, therefore, to non-discrimination, to the disabled, to disability, to those people who must be the first in any political choice at any level. [[Applause from the L-SP, FI-BP and FdI Groups]] In short, this is the vision that will lead us to work in this Commission, which we share with courage, realism and common sense. Allow me to close this speech, as an answer to those from those benches before said that those who say "first the Italians" risk being discriminatory. To them I answer: more human rights, less red T-shirts! [[Applause from the L-SP, FI-BP and FdI Groups.]] [[Comments from the PD Group]] The League will vote in favour because it wants to get to the needs with this Commission too and - why not? - also to the dreams of those who are more unlucky, the weakest, the helpless and discriminated against and will work to correct the shot compared to the past years and so that, above all, it does not remain an empty box. [[Applause from the L-SP, FI-BP and FdI Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u68	Colleagues, I preferred not to interrupt the senator's intervention, but it does not seem to me that the howls I heard during his speech were particularly indicated. [[Applause from the L-SP, FI-BP and FdI Groups. Senator Mirabelli's comments.]] Even less seem to me these comments, since I haven't even called you back. I would have done it for anyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u71	Mr Rizzotti (FI-BP). Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, Forza Italia will vote in favour of this motion which proposes the establishment of the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights in absolute and clear continuity with previous experiences. The experiences of past legislation have given us the feeling not so much of the opportunity to trace back to the culture of human rights in the Republican Constitution but rather, by narrowing the field, to trace back to culture and sensitivity towards human rights in international politics. Eleanor Roosevelt, who played an important role in the creation of the United Nations and fought a lifetime for civil rights, wondered where universal human rights began and, responding to herself, said: "In small places near home, so close and so small that they cannot be seen on any map of the world. But they are the world of every single person; the neighborhood where you live, the school you attend, the factory, farm or office where you work. These are the places where every man, woman or child seeks equal justice, equal opportunity, equal dignity without discrimination. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] He concluded by saying: If these rights have no meaning there, they have little meaning elsewhere. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, we still have to register in our families, in our cities, in our streets, in our places of work and in prison domestic violence, inhuman and degrading treatment, violations of human dignity, against which often, against our fellow citizens, we react with detachment and impassibility. To this end, I hope that, as soon as it is set up, the Commission will be able to carry out a survey of women's mutilation, banned in words according to the International Conventions, but in reality 57,000 women between the ages of fifteen and forty-nine have suffered in our country not only on the kitchen tables, but also with the complacency of doctors and health professionals. I would also like to highlight the great problem of the bride and groom girls and, on the media level, the case of the Pakistani girl has recently come up. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You see, colleagues, you take a selfie with your pretty red shirt and you have a clean conscience. Maybe you live in the most unbridled luxury, like many that we have seen parade, but put on Instagram a photo with the red shirt and you feel almost Mother Teresa of Calcutta. [[Applause from the FI-BP, L-SP and FdI groups]] It is not for me to quote Marx (you should know him better), who stated: this is how the third phase of history is taken, the first in the form of tragedy, the second in the form of a farce, the third becomes the triumph of narcissism mixed with hypocrisy. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP groups]] So, what color of t-shirt to use for the 150,000 Italians, mostly young people, emigrated to other countries only last year, forced to leave Italy, who invested in their education, but who can not invest in their future? Or what color of t-shirt suggested for all those Italian women, mothers of disabled or deprived children, who do not have the courage to address social workers for fear that their children will be entrusted to family houses on which depends a shady business that sees some social workers, juvenile judges and family houses share the money (from 78 to 120 euros per day), as was the result of the acts produced by the Commission for Childhood and Adolescence in the last parliamentary term? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It has been stated that 21 percent of juvenile honorary judges have direct interests with the ownership of a family home. I think the Commission should look into this. And speaking of family homes, aren't those human rights violated by families and children who passed by Il Forteto? Remember this word: Strong? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Just yesterday the monster Fiesoli was released for procedural defects, who for years abused these boys, forcing them to violent practices with a sexual background. [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups]] Homosexuality was the rule and also zoophilia, i.e. they forced the boys to mate with the farm animals. I mean, a horror movie. I hope that this monster will be brought to justice as soon as possible, but with him they should also pay the others, starting with the judges of the court of minors in Florence, who continued to entrust to him teenagers even after the first conviction for paedophilia, thirty years ago. [[Applause from the FI-BP, L-SP and FdI groups]] And social workers and journalists, who for years have been accomplices through silence and shame. It should also be remembered the behavior of the Junta of the Tuscany Region, which last year prevented the presentation of the book "Setta di Stato." The Forteto case at the International Book Fair in Turin. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not forget when, in the 16th legislature, the PD invited Fiesoli to present his book in the Senate and I do not forget even when, during the last parliamentary term, with Senator Bottici, we asked loudly for the establishment of that Committee of Inquiry, which had the yes from this Assembly, but mysteriously blocked itself in the Chamber of Deputies. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It was Forza Italia, in the Region of Tuscany, who strongly wanted, first, a Commission of inquiry, from which emerged the chilling facts and I would like to remind you that there were 14 suicides among the young guests of that community. But do we put black or white shirt for Italians who at fifty lose their jobs and do not know how to feed their children? And what color will we put on the shirt for our compatriots who must wait even ten years to know if the Italian justice considers them guilty or innocent? [[Call the president back.]] And I'm worried about statements about the cancellation of the prescription or statements, like those made by some high magistrate, according to which there are no innocent, but only guilty escaped from justice... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u72	Senator Rizzotti, I invite you to conclude because you have already exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u73	Mr Rizzotti (FI-BP). Choose your color for the Italians who daily denounce the violence of those who will then be their murderers. That is why I call for the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide to be set up. Are these not human rights too, ladies and gentlemen? We are setting up the Commission as soon as possible: if not now, when? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Rizzotti, I invite you to synthesize. Mr Rizzotti (FI-BP). A duty should be attached to every right: ours today is that of responsibility and, therefore, we shall vote in favour of the establishment of the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. Forza Italia will play his part. [[Applause from the FI-BP, L-SP and FdI groups. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u74	Thank you, Senator Rizzotti. I've given you an extra minute, too.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u77	Floridia (M5S). Mr President, the establishment of the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights in Article 2 of our Constitutional Charter is its most sacred and embryonic reason for being: the Republic recognises and guarantees the inviolable rights of man. I would stop on the verb: recognize. Recognize the man. Our Republic recognizes man and I would stop on this very important term. Let us say that Terence, in the second century before Christ, since Homer was quoted, said: I am a man and everything that concerns men is not foreign to me, especially when it concerns the pain of men. So it is not just our institutional duty, I think it is our duty as men, to support such an important Commission. Among other things, the 5 Star Movement considers the protection and promotion of human rights, not only in relation to emergencies or emergencies, fundamental and fundamental for our society, but precisely in relation to the need to educate future generations. That is why government action will be directed in this direction, to allow our children to be educated and directed towards the protection and promotion of human rights. The 5 Star Movement, in fact, believes in educational action and respect for the sensitivity to human rights and the promotion of peace. It will be, in our opinion, a new Humanism to save us and it will be putting the person back at the center of the countries and not the economy that we will interrupt the course of human discomfort. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Italy will once again be a teacher in this and Italy will teach others, because Italy first, on its rubble, has rebuilt itself. He had lost rights and regained them, so we can tell others how to do it, how to do it. The 5 Star Movement is in favour of the hypothesis of a process that transforms the Commission from extraordinary to ordinary because, as we said before, ordinary, daily and indispensable is the commitment that this House will spend in this regard. In this House, where there is no one who wants to save men and no one, where there is no one who wants to protect and promote rights, and who does not and no one thinks that starting a debate on this false problem will help democracy or/and men! [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] This House is the place where, together, with heated debates - and I see that you are teachers - we have to discuss "how" to help men, but there is never a question of "if," we cannot afford it, we cannot afford to say it, because what is said in this House is a sounding board, because what is said in this House has the possibility and the strength to change if not things, the course of thought and we have to be careful, because words have a weight and words are a place where we have to meet. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Great are the responsibilities we have and those who have been sitting among these scrabbles for a long time know well that some problems are not of today and that the path is difficult and that the burden that we carry, that you carry and that now we carry also us, is challenging. The 5 Star Movement is here to add positive energy and humanity to positive energy and humanity and solidarity and vigorousness for a reinforced action to protect human rights. Let us be careful: we never choose which are the last ones to protect. There cannot be a dispute over the last: the last are all and must all be visible, even those today invisible to media action, even those invisible to my thought but brought to mind by the thought of another colleague. All the last ones are the last ones: it is not a dispute between us, about who is the last ones. After setting up the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, it would be important to be able to do one thing: get out of these buildings and think that we have duties. Leaving these palaces, there are also the last and they are invisible; let us forget that there are. Only when the last ones outside this palace meet our eyes, in fact our eyes will meet theirs, perhaps we could look up and look beyond the sea, at the last a little further away. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] We believe that protecting one people does not mean not wanting to protect another and that "first" does not mean "in the place of "in the place of "in the place of "in the place of "in the place of "in the place of "in the place of "in the place of "in the place of "" we would not allow it. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] I would like to conclude with a reflection, if you will allow me: where there are rights to be protected, there are obligations to be fulfilled. And then it occurred to me the passage of "Conversation in Sicily" by Elio Vittorini, in which at a certain point the Grand Lombard - who does not even have his own name, is a man, the Grand Lombard - happy with his whole life, at a certain point speaks with his conscience, who tells him that we were born to perform other duties, not the usual, others, of the new duties, and higher, towards men, because to fulfill the usual there is no satisfaction. (...) I believe that man is mature (...) not only to not steal, not kill and to be a good citizen. Here, I believe that man is ready for other duties and therefore I invite all of us to remember this: our duties are others and are high and the greatness of our work will not be exhausted only in those who we will save from death, but in those who we will help in life. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups. Lively comments from the PD Group]] MIRABELLI (PD). You don't have to look at us! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Take it easy, partner. There is no need and do not point aggressively at the speaker's finger. Please, Senator Floridia. Floridia (M5S). I say it to myself first and I say it to everyone: heroes you can be sometimes, but men you have to be every day. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] And I'll finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u78	You have one more minute, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u79	Floridia (M5S). The motion for the establishment of the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights is therefore our vote in favour. As far as the G1 agenda is concerned, there are a number of problems that are perplexing us, so we have decided to abstain. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups. Congratulations. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u80	Senator Floridia, thank you for also considering the explanation of vote on the agenda, as perhaps everyone should have done, but let's talk about it in a moment. After the vote on the motion under Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the G1 agenda will be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 3, tabled by Senator Bonino and other senators. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot: [[Senators present 279 Senators voting 278 Majority 132 Favorables 262 Contrars 0 Absent 16]] The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda. I have seen that most of them, in their explanation of vote, have already spoken in relation to the G1 agenda, but if some groups did not do so and feel that they are doing so now, I give a few minutes for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u83	ROMEO (L-SP). Mr President, I am simply speaking to announce our abstention vote. In our view, it must be the Commission that decides what the areas of action are, and certainly not an agenda, bearing in mind that listing a number of human rights risks contemplating some of them and excluding others. That is our motivation. [[Applause from the L-SP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u86	BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). Mr President, I would have very much hoped that this debate would not mix political polemics, albeit legitimate, with such a fundamental issue. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It wasn't always like that. We risk confusing political choices with essential civil rights. It is clear that everyone has his own vision of the world and his own way of evaluating this or that absence. But I would really like to appeal to a slightly more modest mandate to this fragile Commission. If this Commission were to deal with everything I have heard, namely social rights, housing, poverty, maternity and so on, we would not need a government: the Commission would do everything. So I think it is useful that we confine ourselves to the things that unite us, namely the laws, conventions and treaties in force and that unite us all. The next ones will be seen and we can study them or promote them, but for the moment, our ground of observation and initiative are the rules that unite us, the Treaties and the Conventions that we have signed. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u87	It was very clear. However, I believe that having received zero votes against the motion is not a bad result.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u89	You have the right to do so. You too, Senator, will have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u90	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, one is enough for me not to embarrass my colleagues. You already know my position and, in particular, the position of the Democratic Party: we will vote against the G1 agenda, repeating the words of President Bonino. A divisive theme, like all those on the agenda of Brothers of Italy, cannot be linked to a resolution that must unite us on the important issues of human rights. Human rights are not political, they are enshrined in the international treaties and in the European treaties. If anyone wants to take the pebbles off their shoes with regard to the previous parliamentary term, namely the 17th legislature, it will not be the new Commission on Human Rights that will avenge any of the issues which, in my opinion, have been dealt with very well in the previous Commission. Moreover, I believe I join my thoughts with that of all the Senators of the Democratic Party and many others who have known it, recalling the excellent work done by President Manconi. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u93	Mr Rizzotti (FI-BP). Mr President, for a moment I thought that the general debate had begun again! I would like to say that Forza Italia will abstain on this agenda, although I agree with many of the points contained in it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u96	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, I am speaking only to note that it is considered a divisive matter, and therefore a part of it, the request that the Commission's arguments should be included to combat the exploitation of the body of the woman and the barbarity of the womb for rent and the contrast to the persecution of Christians. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] In particular, we refer to madness, that is to say to the twelve Islamic states in the world that still have the crime of apostasy, which, for those who do not know, means that a citizen of those twelve countries, including... [[Senator Begin's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u97	Senator Fazzolari has the same minutes I gave the others. It's not possible that when someone says something someone else doesn't like, they intervene! Please, Senator Fazzolari, you have the same minutes as the others. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u98	I really need a few seconds, President, just to say that twelve Islamic countries, including some that we continue to call friends, such as Saudi Arabia and Qatar, provide the death penalty for a citizen from Islam who converts to Christianity. I believe that this is the subject of the Commission for the protection and promotion of human rights and we note that, for this House, these are divisive issues. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u99	I call on Senator Bertacco and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on the G1 agenda. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot: [[Senators present 276 Senators voting 275 Majority 39 Favorables 16 Contrars 61 Absent 198]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u102	[[Brusio]] MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, there is too much buzz if you do not speak. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mirabelli, if you are not in a position to speak even with a bit of confusion, you are waiting for colleagues who do not want to listen to you to leave the Chamber. MIRABELLI (PD). A little confusion is fine, that's a little too much. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He could take advantage of being listened to by more people. You're welcome. MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak about what happened on Saturday evening at the Cesare Beccaria Children's Penalty Institute, where there was yet another episode of violence, protest and revolt. They've been set on fire... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u103	Please go out without disturbing the speaker.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u104	MIRABELLI (PD). Thank you, President, I'm moving on. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Of course, we always go on! MIRABELLI (PD). Don't interrupt me, and that's okay. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I promise I'll get you some time. You're welcome. MIRABELLI (PD). They burned mattresses and sheets; there was a fire beginning. Five inmates and three officers were taken to the E.R. This is yet another episode of violence, yet another one that has occurred in an institute of punishment that for fifteen years has not had the director and for eight lives in a precarious condition, because the structure is continuously affected by renovation works. It is the only children's institute in Milan where only 25 youngsters are hosted at this point, because only 25 youngsters can stay in those spaces. This means that many of them, progressively, see their journey interrupted inside the Beccaria prison and are seen transferred, without fault, far from Milan and their families. I have put a question on this subject and I would like to tell the Minister, because I believe that we need rapid intervention. We must choose the fastest possible procedure to ensure as soon as possible a direction of the Beccaria prison, which can give certainty and tranquility to the many operators who are trying to cope with this difficulty and this crisis in a very difficult context. I would therefore ask the Minister to speak and the President to act with regard to the Minister of my request. PRESIDENT. - The debate is In fact, I note that there is no representative of the Government present in the Chamber who, even if it is an intervention at the end of the sitting, could perhaps have been present. MIRABELLI (PD). I would ask you, Mr President, to speak to ask the Minister to intervene as soon as possible with regard to the Beccaria prison and to appoint a director. I would also ask the President to ask the Minister for Justice if there is no need to take measures to prevent the disruption of educational paths and projects that unfortunately are necessary at the Beccaria prison today, given the lack of capacity of the facility, since the new prisoners send the old people away from the city. This is an important issue and I believe that this Parliament must deal with it, including those human rights that have been mentioned so far. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u105	I will take charge, Senator Mirabelli, to report to the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u108	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, we will not be silent about a very serious and disturbing affair involving the Dominus Party of this Government, the Matteo Salvini League. A very serious and disturbing affair that was sanctioned by Italian justice with a sentence for fraud against the State and, therefore, taxpayers: 49 million euros, President, of the public funding went to the League, money of citizens who disappeared, according to Italian justice, and ended up in personal expenses for the leaders of the League. We will not be silent today or in the next few days. There is a question from the Group of the Party of European Socialists calling for Mr Salvini to come to this House to clarify the matter. Today we make this request for the fifth time and we will continue to do so, Mr President, at every sitting. We want to know, this Parliament must know and the Italian citizens must know. There is also a new ongoing recycling investigation. We call for Mr Salvini to come to the Chamber or for him to think that he has something to hide from this House and the Italian citizens. We ask that he be here as soon as possible, because EUR 49 million, Mr President, what are they worth? How many grants for the right to study, with 49 million euros, how many kindergartens, with 49 million euros? We wonder why the other groups do not join our question and, above all, why we do not join our voice of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Does this deafening and hypocritical silence not mean that the convenience of power is stronger than the honesty and transparency that is due to this House and to all Italian citizens? We will move on, Mr President, because the citizens are asking for truth. Where did this money go? We will continue to ask for it and demand it in this House and everywhere. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u109	The Government will also be informed of this intervention. Not necessarily, of course, the Minister of the Interior, but the Government as a whole.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u112	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, I am sorry that the Government is not here. I would like to address you, Mr President, and of course, in this particular case, also to my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Star Group, since I call on the Government and, in particular, the Vice-President of the Di Maio Council, who is also Minister for Labour, on two questions against caste.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u113	Senator Urso, I interrupt you to thank the Undersecretary Candiani for having promptly sat at the government desk to listen to your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u114	Given that the Minister of Labour is working very hard on this, declaring in recent days that he wants to reform against golden pensions and a reform on the pension system of parliamentarians, in this first question I ask him why he does not give anything to prevent the request made by the President of the INPS Boeri to the previous Government, which he reiterated the other day with the official statement. Just a signature by Minister Di Maio to solve the problem and cancel one of the privileges of castes, i.e. the pension privilege of trade unionists. We don't need any law, we just need the signature and one minute of the Minister of Labour. If he wants to set an example, he can do it; if, instead, he wants to pretend to fight against the so-called caste, pretend and don't sign what President Boeri is officially asking for. The second question is always against the caste and we presented it to the Government, and therefore to the Vice Premier, to ask, already a month ago, why this Government, which is against the caste, does not propose the roof on the remuneration of the managers and the leaders of the participating companies, roof already proposed by the vicuperato Padoan. Roof, I remind everyone, that it was 240,000 euros. Well, the government knows that the measure of Minister Padoan has come to an end and, since it has not been proposed again, in the meantime the leaders of the participating companies have increased their salaries two, three, four times, up to one million euros. I wonder why the Government and Vice Prime Minister Di Maio, who fights caste, do not make a measure, so simple that Padoan has done so, to propose the cap of 240,000 euros, which is exactly what the President of the Republic perceives, also in the face of the arrogance of the leaders of the participants who, in the meantime, in this gap, have doubled, tripled and quadrupled the pay. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u117	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, as is well known, since the enactment of Law No 190 of 2014 the entire province sector has found itself composing forecast budgets in an extremely difficult and unequal condition, as a result of the cuts imposed. The Provinces are in a critical financial situation and several times the Government has been asked to intervene on the cuts made. Over the last three years, from 2015 to 2017, the Provinces have been forced to activate extraordinary maneuvers following the introduction of the various regulations such as budget law and several decrees issued by the local authorities, in order to achieve a balanced budget forecast. It is therefore necessary to guarantee the Provinces the resources necessary for the performance of the fundamental functions in order to avoid situations of financial failure and thus to allow the approval of the annual budget. Among the interventions implemented by the institutions are the approval of annual budgets, often almost completed, a condition that effectively prevents any programming; the application of free leftovers, destined and bound; the distribution of contributions allocated by the State in the course of the year with the various decree-laws local authorities or thousandprorogates, always insufficient to cover the actual needs; the renegotiation of loans with the Cassa depositi e loani. These interventions demonstrate that the Provinces, with the ordinary resources alone, are not in any way able to support the amount of the contribution to the public finance demanded from the various regulations and in particular from the already mentioned law n. 190 of 2014; this has been confirmed also from the financial analysis conducted from the society Solutions for the economic system (SOSE), that in 2017 has quantified an imbalance on the entire section of beyond 600 million. It is now established that the cuts provided by Law No 190 of 2014 create a structural imbalance to many institutions, denying the financial coverage necessary for the exercise of the basic functions. These are not cuts, Mr President, but forced withdrawals that put road safety and the safety of our young people in schools at risk. During the approval of the budgets from 2015 to 2017, many Provinces were able to finance only compulsory expenses, without guaranteeing an adequate level of services on the fundamental functions and without being able to plan the necessary extraordinary maintenance operations and even less the ordinary ones in the schools and on the roads of competence. The 2018 Budget Act should have given a definitive response to the financial difficulties of the Provinces denounced over the last three years, so that the provisions relating to the extraordinary measures foreseen for the closure of the forecast budgets disappear from the text of the Budget Act and there is a return to the obligation to approve the multiannual budget. Despite this, against the additional resources needed for the Provinces sector of 470 million, the budget law allocated only 317 million. For all the above I put to your attention the situation of the Provinces, considering no longer to be postponed a solution able to permanently remove those conditions that in fact result in heavy limitations to the institutional activities of the institutions, with inevitable and obvious negative repercussions on the territory and the administered community.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u118	I remember that if you can't pronounce a written intervention in full, you can always deliver it and it will be reported in full.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u121	TEXTOR (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the intention of my speech is only to say thank you and to raise awareness. As you know and as the news reported last week, Moena, also called the Dolomites fairy, was hit by a water bomb that, within a few hours, generated an unpredictable phenomenon, because it could not be expected that this water bomb would fall on the community of Moena. The images proposed have shown how much the fury of nature can bring a community and a country to its knees. I must say that I also went straight to my valley. What I have seen, in addition to the damage caused, and on which I would like to point out my intervention are the people who have worked to ensure that this urgency and emergency is resolved as soon as possible. I would therefore like to say a great deal of thanks to civil protection, to all 700 volunteers who have worked to ensure that the municipality can return to normality and to the public security forces. These people have worked without asking anything, except to review their country and their community to shine and in just three days this result has been achieved. Now Moena is back to being the fairy of the Dolomites and I want to say a big thank you to these people, whom we have seen operating not only on this occasion, but also in the case of the earthquakes of L'Aquila, Emilia-Romagna, Marche and Ischia. I believe that at this time, when we are working on supplementary, corrective and amending provisions for the reform of the third sector code, it is necessary to take into account the great heritage of volunteering, which must be supported by the institutions and must be facilitated so that it can play this important role for our community. So, thank you again. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u122	Thank you, Senator Testor. We join in this thanksgiving and joy for the rediscovered beauty of Moena's Fairy.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u125	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I shall be very brief. This is a news of which we have confirmed in these hours about the discovery in Castua (the present Kastav, in Croatia, a small town not far from Rijeka) of the exhumed remains of some Italian citizens slaughtered by the titine police, the notorious Ozna, in May 1945, at war ended, and then thrown into the mass graves in the attempt, however successful in a large part, to carry out the ethnic cleansing of those territories. The discovery of these bodies took place thanks to the commitment of our Ministry of Defence, which I wish to thank, of our consulate in Rijeka, directed by the consul Paolo Palminteri, in direct collaboration with the Croatian Government which, we recognize, has been supportive and timely in responding to the demands of our Government. I also want to highlight the fact that perhaps the greatest merit goes to the Society of Fiumani Studies and to the Federesuli, who for decades, continuously, without ever failing, defends the memory of our border people and of the Italians who lived in what was once the former Yugoslavia. Colleagues, the main reason for my brief speech is the desire to highlight the fact that among the exhumed remains there is also that of Senator Riccardo Gigante, killed together with some friends at war ended, without trial, unfortunately like many others. I therefore believe that it is our duty to officially welcome the remains of those who preceded us in this House, and this can take place, both by participating in a joint ceremony with our Croatian colleagues, which would also prove that we can overcome the hatreds, difficulties and scars of the time, if we want to do so, both here in Italy, once Onorcaduti can indicate the place where the remains will be kept. Finally, Mr President, I hope that you and the Government, which I do not see represented in this Chamber, will be able to take an active part in the acceptance of this request, which would be a gesture of humanity, truth and reconciliation together. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u126	Undersecretary Candiani is actually present in the Chamber. [[Comments by Undersecretary Candiani.]] Yes, but we must also listen every now and then, otherwise it is useless to be in the Chamber and the place of the Government is at the benches of the Government, it is not standing there and I regret having to remind you, Mr Undersecretary, especially in the face of such an important and touching topic as that on which Mr Ciriani has just spoken. In any case, Senator Ciriani, it will be my duty to inform the Government and the President of the Senate so that, in response to your request, in one of the next sessions you can remember in the Chamber the senator whose remains have been found. Thank you very much, and I would also like to thank the other Members for their comments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u127	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-19.ana.u128	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Wednesday 11 July, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.51 a.m.
