ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u3	The next item is the statement by the President of the Council of Ministers on the case of the Diciotti vessel. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for giving me the opportunity to explain before this House the reconstruction of the facts about the affair on the Diciotti vessel and I would like to remind you immediately that I will listen carefully to the speeches that the parliamentary groups will make after my presentation. On 14 August 2018, at 11:13 am, an aircraft of EUNAVFOR Med operation Sophia informed the competent authority for the coordination of search and rescue (SAR) Libyan rescue operations and the Italian marine rescue coordination center (IMRCC) at the Italian Coast Guard of the presence of a boat with about 120 people sailing on a North route, about 40 miles from the Libyan coasts, within the Libyan SAR area. The authorities of Tripoli took on the coordination of the case, arranging the exit of their own motorboat, which subsequently returned to port due to a technical problem. The boat in question continued to sail northwards and in the morning of 15 August, exactly at 8.53, the Maltese authority, previously compulsed by the Libyan one with a special message, assumed responsibility for the case as a result of the location, carried out by its airships, in Maltese SAR waters, in a position about 50 miles south of Malta and about 100 miles from Lampedusa. During the same morning of 15 August, at 10:06 am, a plane, again of EUNAVFOR Med, operation Sophia, sighted the boat and in its vicinity two military units with Maltese identification numbers P52 and P61, as well as an auxiliary boat of one of the Maltese ships flanked the boat. The position last detected showed a decided change of course compared to the one previously held by the boat to the island of Lampedusa. At this juncture, Maltese military ships proceeded to supply migrants with food, water and life jackets, as reported by the SAR authorities in Malta. At 7.20 p.m. on 15 August, an Italian Coast Guard aircraft also sighted the boat with migrants in the Maltese area of responsibility heading towards Lampedusa, about 5 miles from the said boat. The aircraft sighted the Maltese patroller P52, which proceeded with the same route and speed as the migrant boat. It was also detected at a distance of 5 miles, but in a northerly direction compared to the boat, also the second Maltese patroller P61, which appeared to be stationary. Since the Maltese boats basically indicated the route to the migrants escorting them along the same route, the possibility was realized that, in the absence of a Maltese rescue, the boat could reach the area of competence SAR Italian at the very first hours of the day 16. From an analysis of the meteorological situation and the experience gained over the years about the possibilities to prolong the navigation with that type of boat (i.e. the state of vetusity of the medium, the level of floating on board free and the number of persons on board), found the inertia of the Maltese SAR authorities, our General Command of the Body of the Harbour offices estimated as probable the necessity of a rescue intervention in order to transfer to other unit all the occupants or, at least, part of them, in order to lighten the boat once it had entered the area of national responsibility. In order to prepare for this eventuality, from 20,24 on 15 August the Command implemented the following measures. First. In advance, he alerted the other Italian authorities of reference, communicating his intentions and also requesting, as per practice, to the Department of the Interior, if it had occurred the entry into the area of responsibility SAR Italian, the assignment of the port of disembarkation of the shipwrecked (in the jargon " place of safety "), according to the procedures consolidated and agreed since 2015 with the Ministry of the Interior, in adherence also to article 10-b of the legislative decree 25 July 1998, n. 286. Second. The Command also had the exit at sea of two patrol boats from Lampedusa (CP305 and CP324), financed by the Frontex agency, because they participated in the operation Themis (known mission on the supervision of the European borders), with the order to remain within the Italian SAR area, in order to ensure the necessary intervention only when the boat had reached the area of competence. Thirdly, given the high number of migrants - at that time the exact number was unknown - and the transport capacity of the two GC Class 300 motor vehicles (maximum 110 people each), had the approach to the Diciotti vessel area, currently engaged in a fishing control campaign about 20 nautical miles north-east of Lampedusa. At 00.40 the General Command of the Capitany adopted an order of operations directed to the naval units of the Coast Guard engaged, which first provided to assist the boat making it continue in the navigation towards Lampedusa or, in case of criticality, the timely adoption of actions aimed to avoid dangers for the shipwrecked, to safeguard and to safeguard the lives at sea. Already at 2.49 the Rescue Coordination Centre in Malta was informed that the boat had stopped, asking to take any action to assist the occupants, since the same was within the Maltese area of responsibility. At 3.20 a.m. on 16 August, arrived less than four miles from the limit of the area of competence SAR Italian, although in full contiguous Italian zone, the migrants contacted by telephone the General Command of the Harbour offices reporting that the situation on board had become worse due to the fact that the boat had stopped and began to embark water. Given that the communications received were suitable to configure a concrete and imminent danger of life for the migrants, reinforced by the forecast of the worsening of the marine weather conditions in the area - attention, there was sea force 4, with waves of about 2 meters, confirmed by the units of Coast Guard in the area - the General Command of the offices had the immediate intervention, at 3,21 hours, of the Italian Coast Guard. The rescue operation took place about 18 miles from Lampedusa, 70 miles from Malta and 97 miles from the port of Valletta. This was communicated to the Maltese authority, but it replied only once the rescue operations were undertaken, declaring moreover the will not to interfere. All this despite the fact that Malta - I stress - had been informed in writing that the boat was about to sink with its occupants. The same message called for the simultaneous landing port of migrants in Malta. The Maltese units, already previously identified in navigation near the boat, had in the meantime moved away once arrived near the area of responsibility SAR Italian. At the time of the rescue, the nearest and most usefully usable units were, therefore, the only patrol boats of the Italian Coast Guard. In order to verify the presence of other persons on board, the crew of the CP-324 was able to reconvene the boat, recording a high level of water in the engine room. Waiting for the danger and the critical conditions of stability of the vehicle, the military immediately left the boat, after having ascertained that there were no other persons on board. Due to the high number of rescued people, which at the end of the operation will be 190, due to the worsening weather conditions and the impossibility to use the Lampedusa hotspot, the shipwrecks were divided between the two patrol boats and subsequently transferred to the ship Diciotti, in the meantime approaching the area, on which were boarded a health team and cultural mediators able to provide assistance. In the following hours, on the basis of the medical triage carried out on board by the medical personnel on board, the medical evacuation was carried out in favour of 13 migrants on Lampedusa: seven sick and six escorts. At the first lights of the day 16, the General Command of the Capitanerie had a overflight of an aircraft of the Coast Guard, already engaged in marine surveillance activities, for a reconnaissance of the area, detecting the absence of the boat, but finding clear traces of a sinking, such as hydrocarbon rides, several life jackets scattered in water and structural elements of a boat attributable to the boat in question. These last elements lead us to conclude that, without the concrete and direct intervention of our Coast Guard, many of these people would surely be dead. Meanwhile, the Diciotti ship with the remaining 177 migrants on board, in the blackberries of the location of the place of safety, remained in the vicinity of Lampedusa until August 19. Waiting for the definition with the Maltese authorities of the disembarkation operations, that according to the Italian authorities remained in charge of the responsibility of that Country, the ship Diciotti carried out in the late evening of 20 August technical port of call in the port of Catania, on indication of the summits of the Dicastery of infrastructures and the transports, waiting for the eventual indication of the place of safety from also the Ministry of the inside. On 22 August, as soon as they were aware of their presence on board, with the unity in port in Catania, the Department of the Interior authorized a first landing of the 27 unaccompanied minors in the dedicated reception centres of the province of Catania, also as a result of the interlocations with the prosecutor of the Republic of the minors of Catania. From the days following the arrival in the port of Catania, unsuccessfully experienced the attempts of understanding with the Maltese authorities, who confirmed their position of not wanting to interfere and not to assume any responsibility [[Comments of Senator Pharaoh),]] the Italian Government started interlocutions with the European institutions, in order to share a plan of division of the migrants, analogous to what already happened in occasion of the disembarkation happened in the port of Pozzallo, last month of July. On 24 August a meeting was convened in Brussels, at which, of course, delegates from the Italian Government also participated, precisely in order to verify the feasibility of a plan for the distribution of migrants, which had obviously also been proposed and suggested by Italy. The attempt to resolve the issue at European level on 25 August, i.e. the day after the meeting in Brussels, was still allowed to land migrants in the port of Catania. The operation was completed without any criticality in the night between 25 and 26, with their transfer to the Messina hotspot. All migrants, at the time of landing, expressed their intention to apply for international protection. At this point, after the detailed report has been completed, I shall make some observations and consider them together. The operations described above have always intended to give priority to the protection of human lives and the dignity of people... FARAONE (PD). But what? [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] , President of the Council of Ministers. ...conjugating this understanding with the equally necessary respect of the obligations deriving from the current international and conventional legislation on the rescue at sea and on the right of asylum of migrants. The Maltese authorities, although having formally assumed from the beginning responsibility for the coordination of the intervention, with the passing of the hours have demonstrated - and concretely attested - the understanding not to proceed to the rescue operations, limiting themselves to indicating to the migrants, even escorting them, the route in the direction of the SAR area of Italian competence. It continued to ask Malta, without obtaining any reply, to indicate the port of landing. In fact, despite the situation of serious danger for the people - evidenced by the state of precariousness of the boat, then abyssed in the following hours - had made necessary the intervention of the Italian naval units, it was evident that the Maltese competence in the definition of the operations remained. This is in accordance with international law. It must however be specified that, in the days in which the ship Diciotti has been moored in the port etneo, every necessary assistance to the migrants has been constantly assured. It was not, however, a good page for Europe, which missed the opportunity to give concreteness and immediate implementation to those principles of solidarity and responsibility that are also constantly and widely evoked, right and wrong, as fundamental values of the whole Eurounitarian system. The Italian Government has reiterated, since the start of the Diciotti case, its conviction that it must necessarily be addressed in line with the principles of solidarity and sharing between the countries of the European Union in the management of migratory flows. At first, as I have already said, we tried to call the Maltese authorities to responsibility, and we have worked hard to ensure that the people who were rescued at sea were distributed. This was not utopian at all, however, since it had occurred in emergencies even in previous weeks. I remember the Lifeline ship, with 234 people on board, landed in Valletta last June. I remember the Open Arms ship, with 60 people on board, landed in Barcelona last July. I remember also from us the boat with on board 450 people, disembarked in Pozzallo last July. Another time, the Open Arms, with 87 people on board, landed in Algeciras in August. Finally, the Aquarius, with 141 pears aboard, landed in Valletta in August. Already before, therefore, the Diciotti case took place, and even after that, the Italian Government has promoted a strong and determined initiative aimed at urging the European institutions to implement the conclusions adopted unanimously at the end of June. The Italian Government is reaffirming to the other Member States of the European Union and to the European institutions the firm conviction that the establishment of a stable and sustainable mechanism for the overall management of the landing, redistribution and repatriation phases is improcrastinable. We are seeing signs of rapprochement in the sign of a common, we hope, growing awareness of the Member States that if we did not work on such a mechanism, not only would we fail to implement the decisions taken by the last European Council, but we would lose the commitment, solidarity and equitable distribution of responsibilities which are specifically provided for in the articles of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Our immigration policy does not respond to emerging logics or trans-European contingency. We have done more: we have proposed an articulated and complex strategy that aims to offer regulation and management of migration flows in a structural way, delivered to a document that we have proposed to the European institutions since the first meetings on the subject, which is divided into six premises and ten objectives. This proposal is therefore also documented in our official positions which we have subsequently supported in the various European fora. It is a policy that moves, from the earliest statements, from the recognition of the protection of the fundamental rights of all those who have the right to asylum and humanitarian protection and aims to adopt initiatives to protect these migrants from the countries of origin and also in the countries of transit. What has changed, compared to the past, is that Italy is no longer willing to accept migrants indiscriminately, helping, even unintentionally, to increase and incite the trafficking of human beings and supplementing the responsibility of the European Union, obtundating the bond of solidarity that rests on each Member State. Thank you for your precious attention. [[Live applause from the M5S, FI-BP, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups, and Senator Giro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u5	I declare open the discussion on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers. Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u6	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, you know my opinion on the overall management of the migrant issue, so I will not repeat myself. I share your point, Mr President, with a clarification: I believe that this, like others, has not been a glorious page, neither for our country nor for the Member States of the European Union. This is the failure of the sovereignist Europe, of the Europe of States which, however, is always confused with the Community Europe (it is good that we are also clear in the vocabulary) and I believe that moving forward on the claim of national sovereignty, except when it suits us, is not a good policy. We need more Europe, therefore, no less Europe. This concept must be put in mind: the Europe of sovereign states or, as Pannella said, the Europe of the patricians, only leads us to clashes of which, from time to time, we are the losers. What is needed in the construction of the European homeland, which, of course, is added to the national membership of each of us as an added value: this is the objective we must aim for. So enough with the summits and with the assumption "on a voluntary basis" (it comes to laugh, frankly, if not to cry) of the conclusions of the summits from time to time. Applause goes to the Italian Coast Guard, but the fact remains - and I repeat again - that this has not been a good page, neither for the Member States of the European Union, nor for our country, nor from the political point of view, nor from the diplomatic point of view; and we do not talk about procedures, let alone at the next stages. I believe that we are not facing a stable truce in Libya, but perhaps a pause in the clashes, although in vain, and we will probably have the opportunity to discuss Libya and how to deal with it, since we are also wrong in the direction there - I think -. In the meantime, however, let us continue the European project and not be so touchy. If by chance a United Nations agency, that has already made a mission in 2016 in Italy, without anyone being scandalized, but indeed with great cooperation of the Government, announces an inspection in our country, it is not the case to threaten immediately to remove the funds. It is not so - in my view - that we gain credibility in the international sphere. It's not a competition for the strongest shooter. It is to those who are the most reasonable in solving problems. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Mollame and Nugnes]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u7	Senator Unterberger is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u8	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there were mainly citizens of Eritrea on that ship, a country from which one flees because of an indefinite military service, under arms or in the many forms of work of the so-called national service, which is a way that has been given the regime to maintain control over the whole of society, with opponents religious leaders and conscientious objectors who remain in prison pending a trial and the entry into force of a Constitution defining rights and duties of citizens. You run away from that old Italian colony and from many other parts of Africa because you are driven by despair and you want to free yourself from conditions of oppression, hunger and persecution. The women and men of the Diciotti carried all the signs of violence suffered during their journey to the Libyan coasts. The captain told some Members that he didn't know how to behave after reading a message on Facebook from the Minister of the Interior that came into contradiction with the orders he had received. In short, an absurd and paradoxical situation had arisen. The fact that Malta was wrong does not justify Italian management. We are not convinced by this way of understanding international and European diplomacy, not least because it is inefficient, and I am not the one to say it. Faced with what has happened in recent months, Europe has not had a single opening to Italian reasons, if anything a step back with the no longer mandatory relocation of asylum seekers among European countries. It is evidence that Italy, if it decides to go hand in hand with the Countries of the Visegrád Group, will never recognize its reasons. It is clear that Europe must play its part, especially if the Libyan instability were to degenerate and the departures had to start again with force, but for more than a year the emergency has ended, the landings have decreased by 80 percent, so that at the beginning of summer there were more arrivals in Spain than in our country. Now we must have the stability of Libya at heart, and on this, over the past few weeks, we have heard words of common sense and common sense from the whole Government. What I lack in its utterances is a word about integration. Just yesterday the Province of Bolzano decided on social benefits for migrants on the basis of their real desire for integration, namely the learning of one of the two languages spoken in South Tyrol, the attendance of integration courses and the respect of the school obligation. That is why, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we expect a change of pace on this issue. They need not striking gestures, but a patient and constant work of Europe's responsibility and work on Africa and Africa. We do not like this and we are convinced that you do not like it either, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, who has always distinguished himself out of respect for his role and for the institutions. We ask you, therefore, to correct the course of your Government and some of your Ministers. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u9	He's enlisted to speak Senator Grasso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Italy is a rule of law. And you, President Conte, as a man of law and as President of the Council, should know that and remind your colleagues of government. In the long days when the case of the Diciotti ship was consumed, his voice was not heard, except to reiterate always a single concept: I agree with what Mr Salvini is doing, except then let the perplexities be leaked through drafts and behind-the-scenes. And this does not relieve you of the responsibilities, rather it highlights your weakness: you, Mr President, are at the mercy of your dante cause - to use a term well known to you as a civilist - and of the fight against the last poll that runs between the League and the 5 Star Movement; you are relegated to the role of terracotta pot between iron pots. We would have liked to hear you say a lot more. We would have liked to see her defending the honour of Italy, of her laws, of her history and of her institutions. What you've done has not been of any use. On the other hand, the strength of the Minister of the Interior, starting from his relations with your allies in Europe, has not had any effect, indeed. We do not know that the countries of the Visegrád Group - starting with Prime Minister Orbán, with whom you hope not to change deeply, but to destroy the united Europe - have been supportive in accepting on their own soil even one of the migrants who arrived with the Diciotti. These behaviors have largely refuted the voluntary agreement for which you yourself exulted at the end of June after the European Council. You allowed the reasons for Legist propaganda to prevail over international agreements, the dignity and honor of our country. Perhaps Minister Salvini should have presented himself for you today, but it is up to you to do this ungrateful task. Once again, you have made strong with the weak, holding hostage - that is the right word - 177 men, women and children, victims in the Libyan camps of unspeakable torture and rape, humiliating them, as human beings, their history and ours. These are people who, given their nationality, have every right, according to Article 10 of our Constitution, to seek political asylum in our country, since they are on Italian territory, on a ship like that of the Coast Guard. The fact that they are now trying to leave elsewhere in Europe does not change the blame of this Government by a comma. President Conte, you have allowed your Ministry of the Interior to delegitimize Facebook live another power of the State, whose only mistake was to do its job, as prescribed by the Constitution and as provided for by those laws that Parliament has approved. But I ask you: didn't you feel the duty to raise your phone and explain to Minister Salvini that no popular vote puts a politician above the law? 10:13 a.m. (Following Grasso). Mr President, I would like to ask you, who is also a professor of law: what does it mean that your Government and its members can choose to stand above the law, to pursue their own political ideas and actions? Do you, Mr President, subscribe to these words? I want to tell my former colleagues who perform the function entrusted to them by the Constitution that I am and will be close to them and I know that they will never be stopped or intimidated by such attitudes. You have obtained the result of kicking NGO ships out of the sea, but - as we have discovered - shipwrecks and deaths continue. You didn't solve any problems. You're just trying to keep these events from getting to know each other. Your commitment should be to save human lives and face migratory dynamics with foresight, because history will not absolve you: it will not be enough to appeal to the selfishness of others. Moreover, in these hundred days there is not a single act, a single appreciable result from the Lega-Five Stars Government, if not a miserably lost arm of iron; and remains a handful of tweets and posts on Facebook. Tell Minister Salvini: we will continue to fight his policy based on fear, discrimination and propaganda at the expense of the weakest. We will contract it in this Chamber and we will contract it in the country, as demonstrated by the demonstrations in Catania and Milan. Let's face it, as a citizen's lawyer, he's not making a good impression. Perhaps it is to be hoped that she will soon take the exam to transfer her chair to Rome. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD. Comments from the M5S Group]] Without remaining the personal friendliness towards him, we look forward to him returning to the job that best succeeds her and we can, even before, archive the season of this Government of fear, Government of fear! [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u11	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fazzolari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u12	Mr President, I would like to thank President Conte for being here today to report on a case of great national and international importance. You have come here, Mr President, to put your face in it, and you must be given credit for that. It has shown in the past, in fact, that it is listening to what is happening in Parliament and I hope that what I will say today on behalf of Brothers of Italy is not merely a formality and may, perhaps, make some real contribution to this Government. You presented a timely report, but you did not mention the insane episode that saw the Minister of the Interior investigated for kidnapping, a passage that may have to be made. [[Applause from Senators De Bertoldi and Pazzaglini.]] So, first of all, I want to clarify the full and total solidarity of Brothers of Italy with the Minister of the Interior for the folly of being investigated for kidnapping when, instead, he has limited himself to doing his duty. [[Applause from the FdI, M5S, FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Regardless of what anyone in this House would like, it is still not permitted to enter illegally in Italy. It is the duty of the Minister of the Interior to prevent the occurrence of illegal immigration on Italian territory. The Minister of the Interior has done his duty and it makes no sense for him to be investigated today. Rather, it seems bizarre that in recent years no one has ever imagined investigating previous governments for aiding illegal immigration and for erorial harm. [[Applause from the FdI, M5S, FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] All right, in fact, good faith in the first year. In the first year, it can be imagined that all those who arrive in Italy are refugees and, therefore, we welcome them and keep them at the expense of the Italians. But after the first year, when the official data of the Viminale tell us that only 15% of those who land in Italy have the right to international protection under the Geneva Convention or under the subsidiary protection of the European Union, then no, for another five years you can not pretend nothing and continue to let people in and keep them on our territory. There there would be a matter for investigating for aiding illegal immigration and erarial damage. Let's see if anyone wants to do it with the same firmness. With the same firmness, however, we mean that the story of the ship Diciotti has been mismanaged. It has been mismanaged because we need more firmness and less unnecessary acts of force. The immigrants of the Diciotti ship should not have arrived on Italian territory. The problem is not where to land immigrants (in Italy, Malta or another port) or, if we then let them enter Italy, where to distribute them. That's not the way. Far from me to defend Malta, but we all know that Malta has less than 500,000 inhabitants and that it is the country of the European Union with the highest population density. Now, we cannot imagine that a population of 500,000 will receive the 500,000 illegal immigrants who have landed in Italy, because that would mark the end of Malta. That's not the way. Malta defends its survival, which we, too, should do and what Europe should do. We have heard many times that Africa in Italy is not there. It's true. I would like to inform you that not even in Europe is there, because Africa has a billion 200 million inhabitants, many of whom would legitimately have the ambition to come and live in Europe. We cannot imagine, then, that the solution is not to make people land only in Italy, but to distribute it in Europe and, therefore, to invade not only Italy, but the whole of Europe. Is that the government's strategy? Let's get this straight. The solution of those who claim to be sovereignists is another: to defend the external borders of the European Union, as the peoples of Eastern Europe do, as the whole of Europe does, as Spain does, and as, unfortunately, Italy has not done in recent years. How do we defend the external borders of the European Union? They defend themselves with a naval blockade off the Libyan coast, to prevent boats from leaving. We have heard Minister Trenta say that the naval blockade cannot be done, because it is a hostile act. We were used to hearing these words from the PD and hoped they would change. And then we'll say some things. There is one measure that Italy, with the support of the European Union, could implement immediately: to guard the sea in front of Libya, and the UN would support this initiative. And this is said not by a dangerous sovereignist, but by Bernardino León, UN Special Envoy for Libya. But again: European Union, naval blockade in Libya against deaths at sea. These are the conclusions of the informal summit in Malta on 3 February 2017; the title is that of "Unity" and not of the "Voice of the Patriot." "Priority is to stop terrorists, even with the naval blockade": this was supported by the former Libyan ambassador to Italy Gaddur on March 10, 2015. But we could continue indefinitely with the statements of all the generals and former Italian Chiefs of Staff, according to which the naval blockade must be made. If anyone wants to know how to put in place the naval blockade, I advise him to make a phone call to Romano Prodi, who is the last Italian Premier to have made a naval blockade, in 1997, to prevent the boats that left Albania to arrive in Italy, deploying our Navy to do what it was born for. We have a Navy to do the job of a Navy, including a naval blockade. If we think we don't have to do things like that, we disband our Navy, which involves some costs. On rescues at sea, we continue to say inaccuracies in this regard too. President Conte, you are a university professor and you will have the opportunity to better verify certain things. The right of the sea to rescue at sea, all international conventions, the Montego Bay Convention refer to the occasional rescue at sea of a ship in distress. All those rules refer to the case of a fishing vessel which, while doing anything else, comes across a ship in difficulty and therefore has a duty to help those who are drowning, as well as the nearest State has a duty to welcome the fishing vessel with shipwrecks on board. This is the rescue at sea. There is no rule of international law which provides for boats to depart from one State to another and for the welcoming State to have to take them and take them to its own ports. Mr Laus (PD). Do they throw them overboard? FAZZOLARI (FdI). It will not escape you that, if this were to include international law, they would have already interpreted it in such a way, for example, the Mexicans to go to the United States with boats or Cubans; or again, there would be NGOs that would do the shuttle service from the shores of Normandy to the United Kingdom. This is not the rescue at sea. MIRABELLI (PD). Geography, though! FAZZOLARI (FdI). The systematic departure of boats from one state in the direction of another state in international law is a hostile act. Therefore, of the two one: either Libya controls its own borders and its own coasts, and then the departure of the boats is a hostile act that justifies the Italian naval blockade; or it does not control its own coasts, and then the naval blockade is not a hostile act against Libya. This is international law. International law says that the only action that Italy can put in place today to defend the legality is the naval blockade and do not prevent the desperate to land in Italy, because in that case the voice is made hard, but the problems are not solved. As I have very little time left, I would like to say straight away that you mentioned the European Council on 28-29 June. We, however, made a bad impression on the ship Diciotti. I read in full point 6 of the final document of the European Council of 28-29 June unanimously approved: in the territory of the European Union those who are saved, under international law, should be transferred to supervised centres established in the Member States; here, rapid and safe treatment would allow, with the full support of the European Union, to distinguish irregular migrants, who will be returned, from persons in need of international protection, to whom the principle of solidarity would apply. Why has the Italian Government not yet set up supervised centres where, as decided by the European Council on 28-29 June, those entering Italy illegally must be brought? I should like to conclude by reminding you that, in the case of the Diciotti vessel, we have even been called up by the European Commission, not because we did not land the migrants, but because we did not set up the supervised centres. Merkel, the champion of European integration and the beautiful souls of the European Union, has recently set up such centres as anchor centres. If Merkel does the anchoring centres, in which regular immigrants are held for eighteen months, we can do the same with the Government of Change. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u13	Senator Pinotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u14	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thank you for being here today to report on the case of the Diciotti vessel. We thank you for making your voice heard today, that which - in our opinion - should have made you feel strong and clear during the nine days when we have witnessed the perpetuation of an abuse not only of migrants, in contempt for international and national rules, but also of the principles governing the functioning of our State in relations between the bodies of the State itself. I will come back to this, but allow me to make a brief excursus about previous events. You, on 29 June, after the summit of the European Heads of State, stated with emphasis that you fought to the end and that Italy revolutionized the table. In short, he told the country that finally Italy was able to assert itself and since that day she was no longer alone. We were a little puzzled because from the reading of the final document of the summit we found that the relocations, first compulsory, not respected by everyone (Orbán and the Visegrád Group in the first place have always rejected them), but mandatory, and therefore with the possibility of sanctions, became volunteers. But that's it. We would have liked to have believed it, because there is no doubt that Europe in recent years has often turned to the other side on a problem, such as the crisis of migratory flows after tensions and instability in North Africa and the war in Syria, which cannot be considered Italian. We know that those who run are trying to get to Europe with boats, not in Italy, and we agree on that, Mr President. But we thought that that transformation from compulsory to voluntary was not a good new for our country, despite its emphasis. But let's retrace the events of the ships with load of pain and suffering and the closing of the ports. At the beginning of June there is the first arm of iron between the Minister of the Interior and the ship Aquarius that has saved the migrants: the ship is of a non-governmental organization (NGG) and the Minister maintains that they cannot land in an Italian port. The crisis is resolved with the willingness of Spain and other European countries to welcome them: already the first migrants were taken hostage without an emergency. Then it is the turn of the ship Samuel Beckett of the Irish Navy, which is part of the European mission EUNAVFOR Med, of which Italy has the command with Admiral Credendino. On the basis of the rules of the mission, rescued migrants must be landed in the first safe port, but the Ministry of the Interior blocks the landing. I imagine the amazement of the Irish and also of the other countries: an order of an Italian admiral (head of a European mission, but he is an Italian admiral) stopped by the blockade of a Minister of the same country. After a few tricks, migrants are landed. In that case, the Minister of the Interior stated that in Innsbruck, at the meeting of Ministers of the Interior, they would change the rules of EUNAVFOR Med. Defense is not your responsibility; it will be discussed in Vienna at the end of August between defence and foreign ministers at the relevant headquarters, but the Sophia mission is confirmed by the previous rules. Italy does not parade - in my opinion rightly - because that mission at the center of the Mediterranean is fundamental for our strategic interests, including the containment of flows. However, the previous roboating statements, which have worked medialy, would have led to a different approach and, if on the one hand I think it is good that Italy has remained, this, however, makes Italy lose credibility in Europe. Do you not believe, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that Italy's reputation and position vis-à-vis its allies are also being called into question? So we come to the case of the ship Diciotti; actually to the second, because a case Diciotti had already happened on 10 July; in that case the migrants were 66 and were on a private ship flying the Italian flag. The Minister of the Interior said that that ship, with its cargo of migrants, could not dock in an Italian port; only a military ship could do so, so migrants were transferred to the Diciotti and landed in Italy. In July, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Italian military units were still allowed to dock in Italian ports, not in August. From the night between 15 and 16 August and the night between 25 and 26 August in Italy the right is suspended. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The ship Diciotti remains close to Lampedusa from 16 August morning until 19 August and arrives in Catania on 22, but migrants can land only overnight between 25 and 26 August: seven days at sea and four days in port on an Italian military unit, with children, sick people and women. Moreover, that military unit is already Italian soil, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and in fact a State Military Corps (the Coast Guard) has been treated as a foreign ship. There was no reason, neither emergency nor public security, to create this situation. The migrants had already been rescued by a coastal guard ship, not an NGO that you banned, and the Coast Guard is a state military body with research and rescue tasks at sea and I repeat that this ship is already Italian territory. A conflict between State bodies is therefore being created: the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport Toninelli says nothing, but neither do you say anything at all this time, you who are the President of the Council and who, pursuant to Article 95 of the Constitution, directs the general policy of the Government and is responsible for it. We hear his voice on 22 August, but Europe wants to beat a blow and repeats it again this morning in his speech. The summit on 28-29 June then did not solve everything! It is not that now Italy is no longer alone! [[Applause from the PD Group.]] But these were not just the words we would have expected of her. In the total absence of the role of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, we would have expected words in defense of a State Corps and the explanation of why for all those days that ship could not dock in port. You were supposed to explain this to us this morning. The Italian Coast Guard intervenes 17 miles from Lampedusa - you yourself told us this morning, Mr President-in-Office of the Council - and 90 miles from Valletta, so in an area where it had to intervene. But what would have happened if those 177 people had died? After the rescue the ship filled with water - she also remembered - and then sank. Therefore, not intervening would have represented not only an infamy, but also a crime. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Nine days without docking. And then it has been said that the ship Diciotti could have docked if Europe had done its part, that is the 177 people would have had to be divided between 27 countries. It was therefore made clear that migrants and also the Coast Guard were held hostage for a negotiation with Europe. Nothing has happened, however, because the 177 migrants will not be distributed by Europe: 137 are welcomed by the Italian Bishops' Conference (CEI), which has always intervened in help of Italy, 20 from Ireland and 20 from Albania. I don't know if people are already in those nations, or even in Italy. In fact, many are in Italy, as we also see from the movements they are making within our State. And now they don't care anymore: they were only interested when they were on that ship. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Therefore, the problem was not the reception in Italy, because I am here today, but to have hostages for diplomatic negotiations with Europe. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, a great country and a nation worthy of this name does not behave like that. You said it was not a good page for Europe. I also believe that Europe was wrong to turn to the other side, but it was not a good page for Italy either. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have sworn on a formula very similar to that on which the military swear. The military swears as follows: I swear to be faithful to the Italian Republic, to observe its Constitution and laws and to fulfil with discipline and honor all the duties of my State for the defense of the Homeland and the protection of the free institutions. You, however, have put those men and women who have thus sworn in a grave discomfort, not safeguarding their functions. The laws and the Constitution come before the will of any minister, whoever it is. I hope he realizes how serious and destructive his absence has been; a bad figure for Italy, in spite of international law, Italian laws, obligations and the most basic principles of humanity. [[Applause from the PD Group. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u15	Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Senators and Senators, very illustrious President of the Council, members of the Government, we would like to thank President Conte for his timely and valuable report to this House today. Perhaps not everyone has listened carefully to what you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, said: when Malta was coordinating an operation and, in the moment of need and need, it was Italy who took action to save human lives. Therefore, it would be better if the United Nations Organization sent inspectors to investigate racism not in Italy, but in Malta. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Let's just say the way it is. Someone has spoken of a bad figure, but what we see going around, from the response of the citizens, is that the people are happy with how the Government behaved in the affair of the ship Diciotti. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] MALPEZZI (PD). You're interested in consent! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). We no longer believe in these mystifications of reality, because on the subject of immigration the Government has moved from the very beginning in a just and decisive way, using firmness and decision-making. On this subject, the Government has also demonstrated unity of intent. We all talked about the Interior Minister Salvini, but we had the excellent collaboration of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Toninelli... CIRINNA' (PD). On vacation! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). There was also the direction of the Presidency of the Council, testifying that the whole majority... [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u17	Colleagues, it seems to me that no one has disturbed Senator Pinotti's surgery. I ask you to do the same with Senator Romeo.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u18	[[Live applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). It seems to me that the majority shared the fact that the important thing is to save lives, which is the first fundamental aspect; then it is to set up a strategy and a policy to try to really change Europe and that is what has been done, because there are results anyway. Someone may not see them and pretend that they are not there, but this policy has produced an effective result: today immigrants can no longer hope to take a boat and arrive in Italy as if it were nothing. In fact, compared to the past, today it is more difficult to arrive in Italy and the landings have decreased. On balance, comparing the data of the last two months with those of the same period of 2017, if in June and July of 2017 35,000 people have landed in our country, in June and July of 2018 they have landed only 5.080, therefore 30,000 less. I repeat, therefore, that the results are seen, are clear and cannot be denied. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Among other things, the United Nations itself has declared that the number of deaths is halved, bearing witness to the fact that the real humanitarian gesture is to stop the landings: encouraging the exodus means increasing the number of deaths in the Mediterranean and condemning most of those who arrive a future of hunger, slavery and delinquency. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] A strong signal was then given to the Union: with this story the true contradictions of many European countries have emerged, which, if in words make the champions of reception, in fact do not accept redistribution. It is true, in fact, that we can discuss the compulsory or voluntary redistribution, but, even when it was mandatory, according to the data of the Viminale of 3 April - when there was not yet the current Government, but there was the Gentiloni Government - only a third of the migrants arrived in Italy, which was to be redistributed in other countries, has actually gone away. Most migrants have remained here, so even when redistribution is on a compulsory basis, Europe is disinterested and there is no sanction to hold. We are talking about that same Europe which then systematically violates the agreements signed at the end of June. Adding Italy as a bad example of hospitality, except then turning to the other side in Ventimiglia or Valletta, is absolutely absurd. If the message is that everyone should make their own, then it is right that Italy should move accordingly, and so on, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Go on like this with the government. I would add that the question of the ship Diciotti has also highlighted the many buffaloes - so we call them - of politically correct immigrants present on the ship, painted as hungry, sick and kidnapped. According to the quote statements of the master of the vessel, it appears that: The situation was more than satisfactory, migrants eat and are well and do not feel that they are being kidnapped. Moreover, once landed, since they were so hungry, 75 out of 143 refuse food and lodging and disappear, confirming that that of the skeletons fleeing the war is a farce. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from the PD Group]] Mr Verducci (PD). Shame on you! [[Senator Laus' comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that my colleague's statements may not be shared by you, but I do not understand the attempt to overpower the speaker's voice. Please continue, Senator Romeo. [[Senator Pharaoh's comments.]] I call you to order, Senator Pharaoh. If you insist, I will expel you from the Chamber. [[Senator Pharaoh's comments.]] Sit down, Senator Pharaoh. I'll call you back to order for the second time. Go ahead, Senator Romeo.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u20	Thank you, President. In the same way it is pure fantasy the hypothesis that the Minister of the Interior has kidnapped migrants. The truth is that the more time passes, the more the politically correct wall crumbles, day after day. Do you remember the story of Aquarius? Also in that case it seemed that they were all in trouble, while then there is a video of a volunteer showing them dancing, accompanied by the performance of some members of the same crew. Not to mention some photos and some videos published... [[Senator Biti's comments.]] Mr President, we cannot: if democracy is this... [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u21	I must say that we have seen even greater disputes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u22	[[Comments of Senators Malpezzi and Marcucci]] However, I would ask Members to take a seat. Sit down, colleague Marcucci. The Rules of Procedure require you to sit down. Have a seat, please. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Not to mention some photos and some videos published, depicting men tortured in Libya, obviously to try to pity the citizens, which a subsequent verification showed to be images of 2011 and 2014 that absolutely do not concern events in Libya. Unfortunately, this is what's happening. As you can see, the politically correct panzanes have now been revealed and people no longer believe in these mystifications of reality. We repeat: the truth is that it is not enough to get them here and then turn to the other side, letting them wander around in the stations, in the public gardens, in the grip of organized crime, without giving them a true perspective of life. Better to block flows, as the government is doing, and to work to create a Europe that creates safe ports in Libya and identification centres in Africa, to make sure that the real refugees, the people who really run away from the war and need our support come here. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] In this regard we are happy and happy... [[Comments of Senator Beginini]] Senator Pharaoh, I understand that this is... Mr Laus (PD). It's not Pharaoh! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'm sorry, but it was him before. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Romeo, address the Presidency and the Assembly. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). I shall conclude, Mr President. We are therefore pleased that the Government is working on an Africa project, as announced by Minister Salvini, drawn up together with the private sector, to help young Africans in their homes. [[Comments of Senator Bellanova]] , at the cost of 8.5 euros per day, with a nice saving compared to 35 euros spent today for those who arrive in Italy. [[Senator De Petris' comments.]] So, to conclude, we are satisfied with politics, we have to move forward with courage, with determination and consistency, which are the things that people ask us in the end, also because the people themselves, the people, the citizens say that when you are in the right you have to go on: vox populi, vox Dei. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u23	I would like to thank all my colleagues for their efforts to ensure that all the speeches are carried out freely.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u24	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u25	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we thank you for the timely reconstruction of events, times and dates, but, as you will see, the general political aspect leaves the Forza Italia Group very perplexed. We share a policy of greater firmness on the immigration front, which is part of the policies that we implemented when we were in government and the proposals with which we presented ourselves at the elections. We felt, colleagues in the Democratic Party, that it was a mistake to spend EUR 5 billion a year on demagogic reception policies, when we have Italian population groups - I say it without demagogy - who have urgent needs that have not seen answers for a long time. We at Forza Italia in the last parliamentary term asked for and obtained a survey of non-governmental organisations, some remaining colleagues from the previous parliamentary term will remember it, which led to a reversal of the trend compared to the excessive flows of NGOs. First I listened to President Grasso on the judiciary: as President of the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys, which therefore deals with the authorization to proceed, I do not want to intervene on the matter of the Agrigento Public Prosecutor, for reasons of role. President Grasso, I read this morning in the newspapers that the prosecutor of the Republic of Genoa, although having much more urgent investigations to do, gives an interview a day to explain to the League how it must pay and pay off debts and other things. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I speak of Genoa not to mention Agrigento for reasons that could invest our Junta. D.A. Cozzi has some to do, President Grasso. You who referred to your former colleagues, make a phone call; I think that in Genoa there are things to investigate; every day a advice, an instruction: you pay like this, buy the bars, do this other... He looks like a financial advisor, not a prosecutor from the Italian Republic. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] So, like saying, "I speak to my mother-in-law" because they mean or vice versa. As for his reconstruction, President Conte, I also went to Rocca di Papa on September 3 because, knowing some religious who had worked, I went there, I saw, I visited (afterwards, while visiting, maybe they were all running away). It is a welcoming, comfortable place that was used for spiritual exercises, meetings of Catholic associations; it was not a lager. I also said that things were going well: 34 had gone there and 66 would go there; so, trusting the government, I told lies. I regret it and regret it, because it was not so: they all escaped, as has been said, demonstrating that there are no lagers here. Anyway, I want to use this time available to say some things that need to be done. Even today, you, Mr President, have not spent any particular words - as some colleagues have pointed out - on the Minister for the Interior. About Visegrád's group, you said that Orbán is a "bad guy." I would like to inform you that the members who support your Government are dividing themselves in these minutes in the European Parliament on the vote concerning Orbán and Hungary. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] : Some vote like us, considering that accusation unfair; others, instead, stand there ready with the stake and the gallows. It will be said: we think of Italy and not Hungary, but everything is held. I would also like to remind you that there will be an extraordinary summit of the European Union over the next few days on immigration. Take example from the vice-president of our party, President of the European Parliament, Tajani, who told Junker yesterday to go with concrete proposals for action against illegal immigration, and not to make these unnecessary summits, such as the one, President, at the end of June. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Faggi.]] She came back from Brussels - I think - saying that everything was fine, that Europe would share the welcome. I wouldn't want you, who said you were very good in English - so much so that you didn't have to take tests, because you talked to Trump - not to understand what the other European partners who turned your face in August told you! There was no deal. I'm joking and I'm sorry: translation problems or political problems? In my opinion, political problems because I am sure that you know English very much, certainly more than I do. I believe that we must give an agenda and advice to the Government; it is true, we must not intervene in Libya (the Minister of Defence has gone away); the boots on the ground, old delicate issue. We ourselves said that the war in Libya in 2011 was a mistake, but to say that nobody will intervene encourages militias, clashes. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Iwobi]] There must be a final safeguard clause to avoid a civil war and a broken-down flight. I remind you - other than ship Diciotti! - that there are at least 10,000 terrorists among those in Libya who are ready to leave for Italy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Iwobi]] Today is 12 September, it is not 11, it has been a few years, but the problems of fundamentalist terrorism still stir Europe up. I will tell you quickly, Mr President, what is to be done: firstly, to clarify the relations between the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and the Viminale on the management of the Coast Guard: you said that everything was fine; that was not the case. He spoke of the technical port of call authorized by Toninelli; the Minister of the Interior then said to stay on the ship. Therefore, the Coast Guard, which is dependent on the Ministry of Infrastructure, is a problem that we also raised in Parliament: it must be clarified who must give the directives in the face of such phenomena. European solidarity, as I have already said, was not there, despite its triumphant announcements at the end of June. There is an opportunity for the next summit of Heads of State and Government; make use of subtitles, simultaneous translations and whatever it wants. On Malta you said, advised by your legal doctrine and diplomatic advisers, that Malta did not want to interfere. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I understand language - I am not the President-in-Office of the Council and I can speak a little more colorful - but it is not that Malta has not interfered, as it has said several times (I have marked it): it has turned its back. You also said about the written communication that you asked to intervene, to give a safe port to Valletta or elsewhere: they did not respond. Therefore, I note that you, in the diplomatic language of a President-in-Office of the Council, have highlighted Malta's vileness. There is the SAR of Malta; that area of control gives Malta the same benefits of various economic nature. Well, you cannot have the benefits and then dump on others all the misfortunes of the world! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Pizzol]] Therefore, we censor and blame the attitude of the Maltese authority; stand up. We need to review the Dublin Regulation - in English, Italian, multilingual, but let us stand up for it - for the secondary reception of refugees. We're dead letter on this. We must review the Hamburg Convention - time does not allow me to extend - which dates back to the 1970s, the one for research and rescue at sea. The rescue at sea was regulated forty years ago, when there were no smugglers who simulated or created marine tragedies to be transported from other countries. Open a table to review the Convention of the Sea on which the action of the Coast Guard depends, the relief due and not due. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Then there is the problem of Frontex. Every time I read in the newspapers that the European Union announces new units for the European Border Police (as it did the day before yesterday when we talk about 10,000 men): they would be more men and women. Let us assert ourselves: if the border of Europe is the border of the sea, let Europe organize better interventions. As for the Sofia military mission, I say this to the Minister of Defence, it has served to transport illegals. You asked that the landings of that mission were not only in Italy. They said no because you don't count anything at international level and so they tell you we're all in the sea, but then the landings are made in Italy! Get on with it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] As for the Africa plan, China, at a summit between China and Africa, announced - these are the images - 60 billion investments in Africa that will become 120. What does Europe do? There has been talk of a "Marshall Plan"; let me say a "Berlusconi Plan" because it was the Berlusconi Government that said: we allocate money so that the refugees remain there and do not leave. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Minister Moavero, a few days ago, had to quote at the hearing the 2008 Italo-Libical Friendship Treaty: who was the President of the Council who made the policy of friendship, blocking departures and investment in Africa? Take an Italian exam and answer correctly, I won't give you any advice. Finally, as far as the situation in Libya is concerned, an intervention is right: there are terrorists, there is a disaster. Even today I was reading an interview with the ineffable UN representative. The previous one, Bernardino León, at one point left office at the UN and got hired by a sovereign fund of an Arab country because it was paid more. Now there is another UN representative who does not know what he will do when he grows up but who today in an interview wondered how the elections can be held in December in Libya. We would like it to be voted all over the world, but where do the seats make them? In the bunkers, with the shootings? How do you vote with a shot? Let the UN be realistic and instead of giving lectures to Italy on racism that is not there, let it take care of the many characters that let it act free in the world! [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Therefore, President: Dublin, Malta, Hamburg, Frontex, Sofia, plan for Africa (don't call it the Berlusconi Plan because I think it would put you in trouble, call it whatever you want). A lot of people are wondering what Marshall's plan was, not everyone knows. They don't even know where Matera is, let alone if they know what the Marshall plan is, we don't insist. [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups]] You would have passed the English exam, your government will not pass the quality exam. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u26	Senator Petrocelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u27	Mr President, thank you very much for coming to report on the Diciotti ship in the Senate today. I appreciated many points in your speech. In particular, I would like to point out that I have appreciated the certificate of esteem you have given to our Coast Guard, who has worked well, deserves to be considered and you have done so rightly in your speech. Everyone spoke about Diciotti, ladies and gentlemen. Everyone has spoken. Many have been reported by the national and international media, but I would like to begin my speech with a reflection that comes from a voice that unfortunately did not have much emphasis: the voice of the Eritrean community in Italy. The Eritrean community in Italy expressed itself with a press release - dated, if I am not mistaken, August 26 - in which it clearly said that it was very sorry for what was happening on board the Italian ship, but was above all sorry because it was witnessing the usual political exploitation of the people hosted on that ship. The representative of the Eritrean community, knowing well the reality of the migratory phenomenon by sea, since for years they have tried to interpret it for what it really represents, has emphasized that the denunciation of the traffic of human beings risked, once again, to be unheard; until the case of the ship Diciotti, regarding which the politicians, but also the Italian media, had preferred to give voice to those who want to keep open the ports in order to increase the numbers of the exodus of illegal immigration. The Eritrean community itself recalled that - often and willingly - they tried to fight hard - and committed themselves to continuing to do so - so that their citizens could enter Italy by legal means, where it is permitted by international law, and do everything to stop the deaths at sea. The reflection that I want to put to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is that I believe that Parliament and the Senate in particular have an objective above all: that which never happens again in a Diciotti case. It is an objective that I believe all the political groups share, just as every Italian citizen shares it. But in order to no longer have a case Diciotti it is necessary to develop the consequences that this statement entails. To no longer have an eighteenth case from my point of view means to stop human trafficking: to stop the trafficking of people that does not mean to stop people. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Never having a Diciotti case again means stopping illegal immigration, not migrants. But how can we get to this? Firstly, in order to address the current situation in Libya, a conference in Italy (most likely, as has been said, could be carried out in Sciacca, Sicily) could lay the foundations for a project for the creation of a new Libyan State. The new Libyan state is the only way to cut off the racket run by militias. Crushing the racket run by militias also means rebuilding unitary Libyan armed forces; it also means strengthening the work of the Libyan Coast Guard, and on this at least the Senate and the House of Deputies have made a contribution with the approval of the use of our boats in support of the Coast Guard. Above all it means to finally make the Libyan coast a safe port, in such a way that one can block from the beginning the departure in compliance with the international conventions. In these days, among other things, I have noticed that Italy has let go of a mechanism, which I define of the pain TV, experienced for the first time in Italy during the tragedy of Vermicino, when the little Alfredino Rampi died in the well. From that moment on, the Italian media let themselves go to a description of the pain, often and willingly in my view, "peely." In these days many Italian newspapers have let themselves go to this mechanism, reporting the stories of some of the human beings who were on the ship Diciotti. An authoritative national newspaper reported the testimony of one of these people, who claimed to have arrived on a boat following the payment of about 10,000 euros, obtained with the sale of the mother's house and with the contribution of the uncles living in Switzerland. Says this person to feel in debt to his uncles, who contributed with the payment to a well-known Eritrean dealer of 2,000 euros, at first beat, and then another 8,000. In the article in the Italian daily newspaper, this narration is used to draw on the mechanism of pain, which serves to transfigure reality. What the Italian Government is doing and what all governments of the European Union should do is find an automatic, consolidated and effective mechanism to prevent these criminals, the traffickers of human beings who are based in Libya, Eritrea and other countries of the African continent, from allowing themselves to exploit people's desperation. I agree with what the President-in-Office of the Council said: the objective is precisely that and it can only be achieved through international consultation and the concomitant action of certain events that are taking place in recent weeks. First of all, finally, the peace treaty, which has been hoped for for for decades, between Ethiopia and Eritrea. And there are other conditions that will allow our Government to operate effectively and to try to impose on the European Union, which must proceed in agreement with the interests of its constituent countries, to block migratory emergencies. I do not think it is useful to militarise European borders, as proposed by an authoritative representative of the German Government in recent weeks and then taken up by Juncker. Rather, I believe that we need to work together for automatic and mandatory relocation of people who are rightly demanding - because they have a right - asylum in Europe: automatic and mandatory means that they must accept it all the countries of the European Union, Slovakia, Hungary and Italy included. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] There is no other solution than to give the Libyan State the opportunity to stop migratory flows directly from the start. How can we resume the Libyan situation, with our contribution and with the organization of an international conference? I believe I agree with those who said that, firstly, we need to talk to all the actors involved, considering the risks involved; secondly, we need to try to transform armed militias into political organizations that legitimately represent the interests of the Libyan people. [[Applause from Senator Airola.]] Finally, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to remind you that Libya has not yet signed the Geneva Convention on the Status of Refugees. Without the signing of that Convention by the Libyan Government in the coming months, it becomes virtually impossible for the recognition of refugee status to be carried out directly in the country from which flows originate and then assigned to the country that must host them. Countries must accept these flows, when they are legitimately necessary and foreseen by international conventions, but we must ensure that the countries of departure have the tools to do so. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u28	I declare closed the debate on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u31	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, of course I asked to speak at the end of this debate. I must testify that the Presidency's attitude towards this Group is absolutely unacceptable, including its interpretation or its invention of articles of the Rules of Procedure that do not exist. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I will raise this issue before the Presidency Council. We cannot take lessons from those who have occupied the benches of the Government and the Presidency. We don't take these lessons! [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u32	Senator Marcucci, what are you talking about? Mr Marcucci (PD). On behalf of the PD Group. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Okay. Thank you for your report, Mr Marcucci.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u33	[[Protests from the PD Group.]] MIRABELLI (PD). But you're making him talk? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I asked what he's talking about and he hasn't said it yet. Thank you, though, Senator Marcucci. [[Senator Marcucci points out that he wants to intervene.]] You must address the Assembly, however, Senator Marcucci. Mr Marcucci (PD). I have already told the House. However, Mr President, you must not assume the right to invent the Rules of Procedure. It is not possible, for the dignity of this House! [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u34	Thank you. I do not know exactly what you are referring to inventing the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u35	Mr Marcucci (PD). Senator Morra is up! Send him to sit down like he did with us. Use the same meter.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u36	Now you want to take the floor? Or let me talk? It seems to me that the task of the Presidency is to prevent disturbances and to ensure that everyone can speak. Mr Marcucci (PD). I'm standing, ma'am. Sit them down! (Senator Marcucci points out some senators in the hemicycle.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Now I'd ask you to listen. You asked to speak, and I feel like I've given you the floor. Do you want an answer or don't you want it? There was no invention. I would remind you that Rule 85, on the spot of the speakers, reads as follows: The speakers speak to the Assembly from their seats and standing. This article has always been interpreted as meaning that, since you are standing, you are sitting on the rest of the occasions. A constant interpretation! Constant! Anyway, it's up to the President, and you've seen him, to be impartial. Mr Marcucci (PD). Then let them sit down. Mr Laus (PD). Get up! Get up! [[Some PD Senators stand up.]] President Marcucci, don't worry. I can assure you that if someone disturbs your intervention in the future, I will be equally strict in allowing you to intervene. It's the same for her as everyone else.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u37	The next item is the holding of questions. Question 3 00014 on the proposed new legislation on energy efficiency certificates will be first addressed. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u38	Mr President, the mechanism of so-called white certificates, like the other instruments for promoting energy efficiency, is designed to stimulate virtuous measures to save energy and to exploit production processes and infrastructure. This is an advantage for the whole country system, including the whole consumer audience. In fact, energy efficiency contributes at the same time to achieving the objectives of: reducing energy costs, reducing environmental impact and improving energy security as well as being a major driver of sustainable growth. The mechanism of the white certificates is governed by interministerial decrees MISE-MATTM, which fix periodically for the distributors of electricity and gas the national objectives of efficiency to be achieved, as well as the methods of recognition of the certificates themselves corresponding to the savings produced, which are marketed through an exchange platform managed by the Manager of the energy markets (GME). The last decree defining the objectives and modalities is of 11 January 2017. On this point it is noted that this mechanism had given clear signs of difficulties in the ability to achieve the objectives of efficiency set and had recorded very strong price increases, without advantages for energy efficiency policy and with a negative impact on electricity and gas prices. The increased costs incurred by distributors for the purchase of certificates were also recognised by the Energy Authority. In particular, the annual generation capacity of white certificates has suffered a progressive reduction compared to the forecasts elaborated at the time of the definition of the objectives, then merged in the interministerial decree 11 January 2017. On this may have had an impact the delay in the issue and the entry into force of the decree 11 January 2017. The results of judicial investigations on cases of undue issuance of white certificates related to the so-called standardized cards, which in 2017 led to the cancellation of the issuance of a large volume of certificates, have also taken effect on this issue. The increased control activity of the Energy Services Manager (GSE) on the interventions carried out through standardised cards has found widespread failures and has resulted in a high increase of rejection of applications submitted in recent months, with cancellations in autoguarda of approvals already issued, starting from the end of June 2017, with an effect of further reduction of the certificates issued. In this context, in the course of 2017 and in the first months of 2018 the price of trade in white certificates occurred on the regulated market rose by about 130 percent: from a weighted average price of 206.67 euros of the session of 6 June 2017 to 479 euros in the second session of February 2018. On the basis of the criteria set out in the Resolution of the Regulatory Authority for Energy, Networks and the Environment (ARERA) of 15 June 2017 (435/2017/R/EFR), which defines the refund value of the white certificates to be granted to the parties obliged to comply with the obligation, at the end of February the tariff contribution estimated for the year 2017 was approximately 312 euro per white certificate. This value, which exceeded by more than EUR 120 the tariff contribution granted for 2016, was set to rise further and in a totally unrelated manner by any increase in the cost of producing savings and by the values on which the investment choices had been made at the time. Excessive price volatility was, however, holding back investments that could generate new savings; therefore, price fluctuation, precisely because perceived as excessive, was also proving ineffective in bringing the system back into balance. This situation had been reported several times by the Ministry of Economic Development to the Authority for Energy, which had been asked to assess the development of the market and in any case, in blackberries, to implement the interministerial decrees that, in granting the Authority the task of defining the tariff refund in favour of distributors, provided that this was done within the framework of a maximum recognition value. The prospect of setting a ceiling, especially at a disturbed market stage, would have had the effect of curbing the pursuit of prices, without prejudice to the need for other measures. The Energy Authority provided an assessment of market developments that did not detect atypical phenomena, while it considered that it did not define a real ceiling for tariff recognition, which essentially followed market developments. In the face of new and unjustified increases, in agreement with the Ministry of the Environment, an intervention was considered necessary to restore the balance between demand and supply of securities and to cool the price spiral, also through a different frequency of exchange sessions. The announcement of the corrective decree at the beginning of 2018, accompanied by a comparison with the operators involved on the measures being developed, helped to calm market fluctuations, ensuring a positive effect on the reduction of charges on energy tariffs. The average exchange values gradually fell from 479 euros (February 2018) to 350 euros (March 2018), to 253 euros (June 2018). This trading value was then confirmed at the session on 17 July 2018, the first following the entry into force of the decree. The measure, after the favorable opinion of the ARERA (resolution of 11 April 2018) and the understanding of the unified Conference, was issued on 10 May 2018, was registered by the Court of Auditors on 22 June 2018 and entered into force on 11 July 2018. The other changes introduced, especially on the supply side, will be carefully monitored, as they need longer times to carry out the expected effects. The rebuilt text responds to the honourable Member's first observation that there are no grounds for urgency for the adoption of the new provisions. Of course, the government maintains active monitoring of the evolution of the mechanism and will always be able to intervene to make changes to the system. With regard to the definition of the maximum value of recognition, I would point out that the same was necessary, so much so that both the decree of 2017, and the previous decree provided explicitly, giving mandate to the Authority to implement it. It is also stressed that this value applies to the system as a whole and not exclusively to large polluters. With regard to the issues criticized by the new decree, I think it is more balanced to provide an overall view of the issues dealt with, which are in favour of relaunching the mechanism according to criteria of greater rationality. The main innovations introduced can be summarized in this way. First, a set of changes takes place on technical or methodological aspects that can promote the offer of new savings and simplify the investigations by the GSE. In particular, the measure provides for the modification of the concept of additionality and baselines, in order to make it consistent with the provisions of the Energy Efficiency Directive. It also provides for the exploitation, in some cases, of the fossil energy saved as a result of the installation of renewable energy plants and the extension of the cumulability to the detaxation of the company's income relating to the purchase of machinery and equipment, while providing for a limit aimed at avoiding the risk of over-improvement. Always in order to promote the offer, it is then updated and enriched the table containing the types of participation eligible, with about thirty new participations. The decree also approved eight cards for the presentation of standardised projects, including some dedicated to public lighting, behavioural measures and sustainable mobility with particular reference to the purchase of hybrid and electric vehicle fleets. In addition, the useful life values to be granted to new installations are different from those of replacement. Other changes relate to how obliged entities comply, in particular in terms of greater time flexibility. Finally, further amendments complement the economic regulation of the centralised market for certificates more effectively than at present and introduce minimum transparency measures on those participating in the market. In particular, provision is made for the introduction of a maximum unit recognition value for the tariff contribution granted to the obliged entities, amounting to EUR 250. This value has been quantified with reference to the average amount of investments supported under the interventions for which, in recent years, an incentive application has been received under the white certificate mechanism. The possibility of balancing, but at reasonable costs for consumers, any temporary and partial imbalances that might arise between demand and supply of certificates through a supplementary offer by the GSE, which can therefore issue in favour of the obliged parties the number of white certificates necessary in order to fulfil the minimum annual obligations already starting from the current year of obligation. Mandatory entities may redeem these amounts within a specified period of time, in respect of the presentation of the savings implied by the quantity of securities issued, by means of certificates generated by them. I repeat that the Ministry of Economic Development, in close cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment, will continue to monitor the mechanism of white certificates in order to assess the effects and effectiveness of the changes introduced. More generally, I can believe that the entire energy efficiency policy will need to be strengthened and, if necessary, modified, in the context of the new integrated energy and climate programming, which will be developed in the coming months and in which the Government will define targets and instruments for 2030 on the sustainability, competitiveness and security of the energy system.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u41	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I would like to point out to the Secretary-General that this question - here is a political aspect that may well be clarified - was presented on 29 May 2018, when I could call it an "interregno," since the previous Government was still in charge and we did not know if there would be a new one. I say this because you have come here to answer my question with an illustration of the interministerial decree prepared by the then Minister Calenda, who - I understand here - was completely done by the new Minister. We note this, but the subject of the question was our request to suspend the issuing of that interministerial decree, given also the situation of a Government which, in fact, was in office only for current affairs; it was obviously necessary to wait for the new Government and above all to ensure that a very delicate and technically also very complex issue could be discussed, for example, in the relevant Commissions. I also ask President Girotto if this interministerial decree has ever been submitted. I am puzzled, to say the least, because you came here, on behalf of the Government, to say that the interministerial decree was not only not stopped, but also had full course with the inauguration of the new Government, until publication also in the Official Journal. The critical points, which are the subject of my question, have not changed; in particular, what you have also wished to claim with emphasis as an absolutely indispensable instrument, and which in fact is the central element of this new measure, is related to the ceiling put to the value of white certificates. In our opinion, it is extremely questionable to have imposed the ceiling on EUR 250 with the objective, as you said, of establishing a balance between the demand and supply of energy efficiency certificates, as is questionable the possibility of compensating only in the next two years, thus also introducing a time limit. First of all, in our opinion (for this reason we continue to disagree absolutely with this interministerial decree) it is absolutely wrong to set a ceiling at the maximum exchange price, because the measure is born in fact to favour the great polluters and certainly does not encourage the virtuous subjects to make investments in energy efficiency. The issuance of negotiable white certificates was instead the instrument that had chosen to put in place precisely to reward the virtuous subjects and to encourage investments in energy efficiency. The same issue concerns the increase to two years of maximum time to meet the minimum efficiency targets. Beyond the technical issues, I repeat that I find it really serious that we have taken that interministerial decree, which the previous Government was drafting at the end of its mandate, and that the new Executive, which always claims to be the Government of change, adopted it without modifying it in any way and above all without having informed the relevant Commissions. For this reason, of course, not only am I not satisfied, but I also think I express strong censorship towards this attitude of the Ministry of Economic Development. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u42	Question 3-00170 follows on the role of Italy in the peace process between Eritrea and Ethiopia. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u43	Mr President, the geographical location of the Horn of Africa has always given this region considerable strategic importance, accompanied by traditional instability. The situation of "no war nor peace" between Ethiopia and Eritrea has been one of the critical factors for many years, resulting in an obstacle to political stability and regional development. The recent appointment of the new Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed, the youngest African leader, has been a turning point. Abiy has given a decisive reformist impetus, both within Ethiopia and at regional level, with a view, among other things, to a normalization of relations with Eritrea. In this regard, the decision to fully implement the Algiers Agreement of 2000 and the provisions of the Arbitration Committee for the Demarcation of the Border with Eritrea provided the first decisive impetus towards reconciliation. Following a mission to Addis Ababa by a high-level Eritrean government delegation led by President Afewerki's political adviser, Yemane Ghebreab, and Foreign Minister Osman Zah, Prime Minister Abiya visited Asmara on 8 July. During the visit, during which unparalleled popular demonstrations of jubilation took place, the two African leaders agreed to re-establish diplomatic relations and to inaugurate a phase of cooperation across the board. Abiy's visit to Asmara was reciprocated by that of Eritrean President Afewerki in Addis Ababa. The two leaders jointly reiterated their commitment to establishing a comprehensive and mutually beneficial partnership and attended the historic ceremony of reopening the Eritrean Embassy in Addis Ababa. Moreover, just yesterday, the two leaders took part in the ceremony with which the border between Ethiopia and Eritrea was reopened, closed by years of wars. The constituent elements of this unprecedented scenario are enclosed in a declaration of peace and friendship. This document, signed jointly by the two leaders, is based on five policy points: formalisation of the end of the conflict; promotion of close cooperation in the cultural, social, economic, political and security fields; resumption of diplomatic relations and restoration of trade, communications and links; respect for the Algiers Agreement on borders; regional cooperation in the field of peace and development. A Joint Committee, chaired by the two Foreign Ministers, was responsible for implementing the provisions of the said declaration of peace. The effective implementation of the provisions contained in the declaration would mark a historic turning point in the relations between Ethiopia and Eritrea, determining the exit of the latter from the regional isolation of recent years and the consequent growth of trade, a prerequisite also for the start of development dynamics that could lead, especially in Eritrea, to the decrease of migratory flows to Europe. The positive dynamics between Addis Ababa and Asmara are also generating important international and regional consequences. In fact, to seal the new phase of relations between Ethiopia and Eritrea, Prime Minister Abiy asked the Secretary-General of the United Nations Guterres, on his visit to Addis Ababa on 9 July for a meeting with the African Union's summits, to also promote the lifting of sanctions towards Eritrea. At the same time, the Ethiopian delegation, radically overturning Addis Ababa's historic closing position on the sanctions dossier, promoted a similar initiative in New York, in the United Nations Security Council, which will be called upon to formally discuss the issue in November. At regional level, positive developments in recent months have already begun to have significant effects on the whole Horn of Africa, starting from a renewed dialogue between Ethiopia, Eritrea and Somalia. This is an increased intercourse which led, in the first place, to the historic visit to Asmara, at the end of July, by Somali President Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed, the first Somali Head of State to go to Eritrea from the independence of the country. The resumption of diplomatic relations, sealed also by the signing of a declaration of friendship, has opened a new phase in relations between Asmara and Mogadishu. This positive dynamic has been enriched in recent days following the joint visit of Prime Minister Abiy and Somali President, both visiting Asmara for talks with the head of state Afewerki. This meeting led to the signing of a tripartite agreement providing for the start of political, economic, social and cultural cooperation, as well as security cooperation, including through the establishment of a high-level Joint Commission to coordinate efforts within the framework of the objectives of the agreement. There is no doubt that this process, with results that are not entirely obvious, will generate multiple benefits, first of all by starting economic development dynamics that could affect the whole region and decrease migration flows from the start. Secondly, regional cooperation in the field of security could allow better coordination in Somalia in the fight against terrorism by Al Shabaab and Daesh. For Italy, the Horn of Africa has always been a fundamental strategic priority. The historical history of the links with Ethiopia and Eritrea give the relations between Italy and the two countries a high profile dimension and special friendship that, on the numerous occasions of interlocation, has been widely recognized by the counterparts. It is worth remembering that President Mattarella's first visit to Africa took place in Ethiopia in March 2016 and that we have maintained the channels of dialogue with Eritrea, despite the isolation of the country. As the Deputy Minister Del Re has already pointed out to the Ethiopian Deputy Minister Hirut Zemene during the bilateral talks in Brussels last July, Italy encourages and supports this new process, from which the two peoples will certainly benefit. First of all, our country reserves the highest political attention to the process of reconciliation between Ethiopia and Eritrea and intends to endorse and support the ongoing developments with a series of concrete initiatives. To this end, the President of the Count Council has addressed to Prime Minister Abiy an invitation to come to Italy on an official visit also to better identify those areas in which our country will be able to support the normalization of relations between the two States. Secondly, a strengthening of the activities supported by Italian cooperation in the two countries is planned, identifying, together with the Ethiopian and Eritrean counterparts, those specific initiatives aimed at consolidating the ongoing process of relaxation. We live an unprecedented historical phase for the Horn of Africa, in which peace and socio-economic progress can prevail. This is a complex path, which Italy is ready to contribute with initiatives at European level. In Brussels, our country's initiatives have always been characterized to promote a better understanding of the importance of intervening in Africa, and even more in the Horn of Africa, to combat the causes of instability - institutional fragility, terrorism, illicit trafficking, poverty - and to promote the start of development dynamics. Italy, which plays a primary role among the Member States of the European Union in the Horn of Africa, will not fail to intensify its efforts in favour of the stability and development of the Region, in the wake of a deep-rooted commitment that we wish to extend and intensify. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u46	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the representative of the Government for having chosen this seat to answer my question, which dates back to June. I am pleased with how the Undersecretary described the development of the situation, but I am frankly perplexed by what the government in office has done in recent months - as we have just been told -. Beyond the meeting in Brussels of a Deputy Minister and the invitation to the Ethiopian Premier, which has now been announced to us, we have not been told what has been done and what is being done. That is why I offer a few suggestions here. Firstly, it is obviously a question of understanding the attitude of the Italian Government - since we sit within the United Nations Security Council - on the demands of the Ethiopian Government to eliminate sanctions against the Eritrean Government. The Government has not expressed itself here, but it will have to do so there. Secondly, we are talking about a fundamental territory for us, not only because of the importance it has from the historical and cultural point of view, but also in relation to the flow of immigrants from that land and the terrorist danger that comes above all from Somali representatives in Italy. There is therefore the issue of combating illegal immigration and terrorist fundamentalism, as well as the talk about our businesses. It seems to me that yesterday, for example, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs stressed the importance of certain investments financed in Ethiopia. I would like to put a few questions to you at this point, Mr Secretary. Why, with a decision of the CIPE, do you not extend the fund for countries in crisis, constituted in the last financial year at Invitalia, so that it can act in support of Italian companies also in that territory? I am referring, above all, to the most difficult territory, Eritrea and Somalia, since SACE (deposit and loan fund) already operates in Ethiopia. I repeat, a simple decision of the CIPE would be sufficient and would be a sign well accepted in that territory. Why not ask the European Union to implement an Economic Partnership Agreement with the Horn of Africa, as it is the only area in Africa where it does not yet exist? You can ask the European Union and in this way, i.e. with the request to carry out an Economic Partnership Agreement with this area of Africa, the Italian Government will appear active towards the Horn of Africa. What will you do to ensure that Italian companies can make the best use of the EU's external investment plan towards Africa, which is active in the coming weeks? How do you intend to operate through the new Cooperation Agency, which was mentioned earlier, which can intervene in that reality? I mean, it's not enough to describe the situation when it comes to Horn of Africa. It's been months, and things happen. A geopolitical and geo-economic war is also being fought there, fortunately with the weapon of peace. We all know how aggressive China is in Africa, especially in Ethiopia. In Djibouti the most important Chinese port has been realized, also offshore military, and the action of peace, I believe supported from the United States, serves also to counter the Chinese expansionism in that territory. Understanding these dynamics is fundamental for a Government that must have at heart Libya and the Horn of Africa, as areas of priority strategic interest of our country. A little more action is perhaps necessary.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u47	Following is the question 3-00081 on the planned felling of valuable trees in Matera. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the protection and enhancement of the Italian monumental tree heritage is one of the priorities we wish to pursue. It is a unique wealth, characterized by the strong link between identity and territories, which we want to make discover or rediscover to the citizens, promoting the best areas of interest. To date, with the recent approval of a further list (including 332 new entries relating to the areas of Lazio, Lombardy, Molise, Piedmont and Sardinia) the monumental trees recognized in Italy are 2.734. The specimens that are part of it are characterized by the high biological and ecological value (age, size, morphology, rarity of the species, habitat for some species of animals), for the environmental, historical and cultural importance that they cover in certain territorial contexts, for their close relationship with architectural emergencies, for the ability to mean the landscape, both in aesthetic and identity terms. The recent update of the national list of monumental trees was the result of an intense cataloguing activity, carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism Policy (MIPAAFT) in synergy with the Regions, the Autonomous Provinces and the Municipalities, to which the law assigns precise tasks and responsibilities in the proactive phase of the procedure and of safeguarding the specimens worthy of protection. In this regard, I note that Article 7 of Law No. 10 of 2013, in addition to clarifying the definition of a "monumental tree," has established the list of monumental trees and old woods of Italy, whose management is provided by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism. In order to ensure maximum protection for monumental specimens, the law prohibits the killing and modifications of their equipment; only in justified and improcrastinable circumstances, subject to municipal authorisation and mandatory opinion of the State Forestry Corps, may the killing be permitted. I recall that, in implementation of Legislative Decree No. 177 of 2016, the competence assigned by Law No. 10 of 2013 to the State Forestry Corps in the matter of protection and protection of monumental trees was transferred, from January 1, 2017, to the Ministry that I represent. It should also be borne in mind that, for the inclusion in the list in question, the municipalities provide, pursuant to the Ministerial Decree of 23 October 2014, the census of monumental trees of the territory of competence and the transmission of the consequent results to the Regions. It is for them to draw up a regional list of monumental trees after examination of their competence, to be included, after formal verification, in the national list in question. This place, regarding the specific case evidenced by the questioner, as far as the competence of the MIPAAFT, I note that the trees situated in the zone of requalification road in the Municipality of Matera are not enrolled in the national list of monumental trees, nor turns out that the Municipality has submitted to the Region Basilicata any proposal of monumentality for the same specimens, for the purpose of a future insertion. Moreover, from information assumed by the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities, it has emerged that in the conference of services convened on 7 September 2017 by the Municipality of Matera to carry out the authorization process of the project, the archaeology, beautiful arts and landscape of the Basilicata, in agreement with the Municipality of Matera, has expressed favourable opinion to the realization of the work, prescribing that the essences of pine explanted on Via Lanera are replaced with tree essences to be defined in the execution phase with the same superintendence. The aforementioned prescription has been transposed with authorization issued by the Municipality of Matera - urban maintenance sector public green office on April 24, 2018, with which it is arranged that the 86 tree essences to be cut down will be replaced with a total number of 430 trees, pursuant to article 12, paragraph 1, of the regulation of protection of the urban green, without prejudice to the numerical redetermination of these tree trees following the additional expertise and without prejudice to the relationship of one to five between the fellings and the repaintings, which must be respected anyway. The on-site replantation of the first 60 tree essences must take place no later than the autumn of 2018.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u51	DE BONIS (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank the Government for taking this matter to heart, demonstrating the sensitivity that this Government shows towards environmental protection. Not so much can be said about the Municipalities, one of many that of Matera that should show greater sensitivity to the culture of green, even on the eve of this important appointment as the capital of culture 2019. We had to record that the whole community had to unite in order to prevent such a little shared and so undemocratic measure for the city could affect the killing if not monumental plants, at least marine pine trees located in an area subject to landscape constraint. It is these days the news of a rethink by the Municipality of Matera, with a variant that has been presented following the activity carried out by the local environmental organizations and the city committees, for which there will be a reduction of the work, which will probably also lead to a reduction of the felling of the plants. The administration's commitment is to selectively and surgically treat the removal of only a little more compromised plants, trying to leave the city the only remaining green lung. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u52	The following is Question 3-00105 on UN and WHO initiatives detrimental to typical Mediterranean diet products. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the honourable Members for their inspection, since they allow me to explain the initiatives that the Ministry of Health is undertaking so that the resolution, which will be adopted on 27 September 2018 by the United Nations General Assembly, may contain measures that do not in any way affect the excellence of Italian agri-food exports. In this regard, although the issue involves the profiles of competence of several ministries, it is useful to give priority to the aspects specific to the Ministry of Health, which are undoubtedly central to the issue under consideration. In the first place, I would point out that Italy, also from a health point of view, aims, among its main objectives, to put in place decisive actions aimed at addressing the important issue of excess malnutrition, taking into account the obvious influence on them of economic policies as well as social inequalities. As this objective can only be achieved through the implementation or strengthening of strategies and programmes that promote healthy lifestyles and the prevention of chronic diseases, with special emphasis on health determinants, as well as through the implementation of multi-sectoral strategies at national and local level, Italy considers it a priority to counter risk factors and promote determinants with positive effects, through all possible investments in prevention and multi-sectoral interventions, involving multiple public administrations and civil society itself. In order to ensure these priorities, Italy therefore has every interest in playing an important role in the international framework. To confirm this, I would like to point out that, at the High Level Meeting dedicated to the prevention and combating of non-communicable diseases, to be held in New York on 27 September, Italy will play the role of co-facilitator together with Uruguay and, in order to ensure maximum support to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this strategic role, the Ministry of Health has set up a special UN task force for affairs. Since last April, the Ministry of Health has expressed itself on the text under negotiation, supporting cross-sectoral policies aimed at promoting healthy lifestyles, regular physical activity and healthy, balanced and sustainable diets. In this context, a position was expressed contrary to the demonisation of specific food categories as well as to the hypothesis of labelling, warnings and images aimed at indicating a hazard related to specific foods. I would stress that with regard to tax policies in the food sector, the Italian position is aimed at completely removing the reference in the text of the negotiation, or, if this is not possible, at mitigating its significance through the use of a word indicating the voluntary nature of the measure, as well as the possible application in accordance with national policies. It is also comforting that this position is shared by many other important countries such as the United States and Japan. I must point out, however, that the negotiation for the definition of the text is still under way and, even at present, this Ministry continues to provide the elements of competence to support the choice of the most appropriate statements to promote healthy lifestyles. It should be noted that the Ministry of Health has always promoted, in every international assembly, the Mediterranean diet characterized by a nutritional model that has remained constant over time, consisting mainly of olive oil, cereals, fresh or dried fruit and vegetables, a moderate amount of fish, dairy products and meat, for its positive effects on health, and encourages producers to maintain the excellent quality of traditional Italian products. In line with the most established scientific guidelines, in fact, the totality of the diet has always been considered fundamental and not the individual food, since it is not possible to classify the elements in good and bad because they must be commensurate with the needs of the individual and not judged in the context of a simple standardised evaluation. In this regard it can be said that the reduction of particular nutrients, e.g. sugars and fats, through the identification of simple numerical targets, cannot be shared not only because it is difficult to realize but also because of dubious effectiveness. What we must fight are, in fact, bad habits and not the individual food. The Ministry of Health wants to accompany the population towards a diet related to the type of life that it leads, considering also a number of factors such as age, sex, physical activity carried out at the same time, educating to the right quantities and variability of the portions. There is no doubt that there is a growing tendency to use indicators that do not always have a scientific basis, demonizing even individual ingredients, such as fats and sugars, without considering that there are cooking techniques that can affect the composition of the elements and modify their nutritional quality. It is precisely this trend that makes us fear that certain foods which are part of the Mediterranean diet and which are now appreciated worldwide may be penalised. The Ministry of Health's orientation, therefore, is to avoid assessment systems based on mere nutritional profiles or graphic representations that unfairly place the emphasis on the composition of the individual product regardless of the mode and frequency of consumption. In line with these objectives, I would like to point out that at the end of 2017, within the framework of the agri-food table, a working table was set up at the MISE, involving several administrations, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Agricultural Policies, the MISE itself and trade associations, with a view to defining a national position on the synthetic expressions of nutritional information capable of considering the peculiarities of national products and balancing information on nutritional elements with a broader reference to the general context of Mediterranean diet and lifestyle. The table also suggested a proposal for an additional model of nutrition labelling as a contribution to the Community discussion to ensure the correct and uniform application of EU Regulation 1169 of 2011. It is particularly important to point out that this model, compared to the other systems already in place, Nutri-Score traffic light, differs because it does not identify the classification of the elements on the basis of their formulation in terms of negative and positive energy and nutrients and does not induce the consumer to choose those foods that, on the basis of a particular classification, appear to have the best impact on health. It is also useful to add, with regard to tax policies, that both the Ministry of Health and the MISE have raised serious concerns about the application of any increased taxes, since this approach, without any educational component towards healthy eating habits, can result in a possible shift of consumption towards cheaper products and of poor nutritional quality, in particular in the childhood and evolutionary age. In conclusion, I would like to assure the honourable Members that the Ministry of Health, in sharing the concerns expressed in this inspection act, has intervened promptly, together with the other administrations involved, so that the ongoing negotiations can give primary importance to interventions based on lifestyles, avoiding considerations that are not supported by strong scientific evidence: all this in order to enhance the awareness of individual consumers in their food choices and to avoid unjustified penalties for products which, with merit, constitute the excellence of Italian agri-food production. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u56	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, while I said in my previous reply that I was basically disappointed, this time I have to say that I am enthusiastic about what you have said. Our question arose from the alarm of the associations of category, Federal and Confindustria, compared to a news that had appeared underneath the document of the World Health Organization (which seemed so absurd to us that some called it a fake news). Then the "Sole 24 Ore" extracted the document supporting the news that we provided there: the concrete alarm, I would say the threat, that that preparatory document represented towards the products of our made in Italy (the ham of Parma, Parmigiano Reggiano, mozzarella or Provolone) was that they could be put to the index as unhealthy products, with the proposal to introduce tax measures vexatory to discourage the purchase or forms of deterrent labelling, as already happens in Britain for some products made in Italy. The consequences - the English case is emblematic - show that this alarm, in our opinion absolutely unjustified, then produces a drastic contraction in sales. Hence the justified alarm of Italian companies and workers. The government here has told us that it is intervening with measures that I think will be effective, that will be adopted on the next day of 27 September, and has explained to us its position, internal and international, that we fully share: the Mediterranean diet, evoked by all as particularly useful and effective also for improving the quality of life, must be considered as a whole and not as a single food to be put on the index, if even there were in that food some excess of sugar or salt or other natural foods. I think this is the right way. I hope that the Government has prepared, as it has told us here, all the counter-measures necessary to prevent this threat to the sector that is currently driving, for increase of growth, also the 'Italian export, in addition to characterizing our quality of life that is so envious to us, and to recall in our country those international tourists who very often go in search of culture and art, but also of Italian food and wine. [[Applause from Senator Garnero Santanché.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u57	Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u58	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-35.ana.u59	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 13 September, at 3 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 11.59 p.m.
