ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.08 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Carossino, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes. I would like to wish Senator Alberto Barachini, the new President of the Parliamentary Committee for the General Address and Surveillance of Radio Services, and Mr Lorenzo Guerini, elected at the summit of the Parliamentary Committee for the Security of the Republic, good work. [[Applause]] I am sure that they will carry out their delicate and challenging task with the recognized balance skills.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u4	I communicate that, pursuant to Article 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, proposals have been submitted for preliminary rulings relating to the draft law n. 648 of conversion of Decree-Law 208, n. 86 of 12 July, in the matter of reordering the powers of the Ministries. The question referred for a preliminary ruling will be discussed at the sitting on Tuesday 24 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u5	The next item is: Vote for the election of two members of the Board of Directors of RAI-Radiotelevisione italiana SpA. For this vote each senator will receive a card on which he will indicate, pursuant to article 49, paragraph 6, letter a), of the legislative decree 31 July 2005, n. 177, a single name among those who have submitted their candidacy in the framework of the selection procedure provided for by paragraph 6-a of the same legislative decree, whose curriculum is published on the senate's website. The two candidates who will obtain the highest number of votes will be declared elected. I declare the vote open and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed to the appeal. (Senator Secretary Carbone and then Senator Secretary Puglia appeal). The senators took part in the vote: Abbot, Accoto, Agostinelli, Aimi, Airola, Alderisi, Alfieri, Anastasia, Angrisani, Arrigoni, Astorre, Auddino, Augussori Bagnai, Balboni, Barboni, Barboni, Battistoni, Bellanova, Berardi, Bergesi, Bernini, Bossi Simone, Bossi Umberto, Bottici, Botto, Briziarelli, Bruzzone, Buccarella Calderoli, Campari, Centiarini, Candura, Cangini, Cantù, Cario, Casolati, Castaldi, Castellone, Castiello, Catalfo, Caccarella Calderoli, Centiarini, Centiarini, Candura I declare closed the vote for the election of two members of the board of directors of RAI-Radiotelevisione italiana SpA. Pursuant to Rule 25 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, I invite three Secretary Senators to proceed to the examination of the ballots and the calculation of the votes that will take place in the adjacent Pannini Room.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u6	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Senators, tomorrow is a sad and painful anniversary, one of those dates that changed the history of Italy and changed all of us. Tomorrow marks the 26th anniversary of the massacre in Via D'Amelio. Together with Judge Paolo Borsellino, five agents of his escort died: Agostino Catalano, Vincenzo Li Muli, Walter Eddie Cosina, Claudio Traina and Emanuela Loi. Paolo Borsellino was not only a great magistrate, he was not just an example to follow in the fight against mafia and organised crime. It was and is much more: a civil hero, a heritage of that Italy that did not bend, that did not seek shortcuts and that did not compromise. That July 19th took away a lot from Italy. That July 19 gave a lot to the history of Italy: the fight against the Mafia has since been lived as a moral duty, in the awareness that there can be no failures of any kind with respect to the affirmation, always and in any case, of legality. The spirit that animated the action of Borsellino has in fact always been positive and proactive. For him the Mafia was not an inextinguishable evil, but a criminal phenomenon and - like all criminal phenomena - could and had to be defeated. A goal to achieve which he was convinced that not only repression was needed, but it was essential to spread a true culture of legality, starting with the new generations. He loved saying Borsellino, on the mob: If youth denies consent, the almighty and mysterious Mafia will also vanish like a nightmare. A real manifesto of what the institutions are called to do every day, for the common good and to affirm our rule of law. I believe that this House can find in Paolo Borsellino and the other servants of the nation who have sacrificed their lives the inspiration to carry out even more and even better their function. [[Live, prolonged applause.]] One representative per group may speak for five minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u9	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we shall not join in the panegyric of words which have been accompanying these dates for twenty-five and more years, words which do not do justice or honour to a man like Paolo Borsellino. On the other hand, we feel the duty to say difficult words in this House, because we owe it to people like Paolo Borsellino, who have not fled. Yet he could have done so: Paolo Borsellino did not go to hide, he did not leave Palermo, after the massacre of Capaci; he could have done so and no one would have blamed him. He remained in his place, but, if we really want to honor him, we must say how and under what conditions he remained in Palermo: Paolo Borsellino remained alone, because the State, the Minister of the Interior, the Government, the Head of the Police, the Prefect and the Attorney Giammanco did not protect him. It is incredible and unspeakable the emotion we have felt in hearing in the Anti-Mafia Commission the only survivor of Via D'Amelio and in hearing him tell of those colleagues treated by the State as meat for slaughter. The driver of Borsellino's car, parachuted in Palermo, didn't know where D'Amelio was: he didn't know, Vullo had to explain it to him. Then there are the twenty-four years of Emanuela Loi, sent there, just out of the academy, to die in Via D'Amelio. Alone. And what about the request to put the parking ban in via d'Amelio? There had already been, ten years before, a car bomb in via Federico Giuseppe Pipitone and they knew what a car padded with TNT meant. Not even that was done and Borsellino was fully aware of it. A terrible awareness, until the last day: on Saturday, in proxy to work, he met his colleague Principality, who asked him: "But are you here, on Saturday, in July?" He was there, until the last day of his life, at work: fifty-five days of desperate work, which Caltanissetta's colleagues did not even deign to listen. They didn't even call him: let it never be that Paolo Borsellino could have revealed what traces he was following, the contents of the documents disappeared in Via D'Amelio, that one like Ayala no longer remembers (if the bag took it, if it delivered it, if the bag was there). Ayala. I conclude, President: we have a duty to apologize to these men and women who have served the State to the last with the sacrifice of life, and the only possible way to honor them is to ask and obtain truth and justice for Paolo Borsellino and for all the others! [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and FdI groups and Senator Errani. The Senators of the M5S Group and the Senators Ciriani, Iannone and Zaffini stand up. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u12	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I was asked to make a brief speech this morning in memory of the massacre in Via D'Amelio, I immediately thought of an image: a black and white picture - which many of you probably have seen in the newspapers or on social networks - portraying Judge Borsellino along with his escort on foot through the streets of Palermo. A tragic and emblematic photo, because it portrays one man, surrounded by other lonely men. It is an emblematic picture not only of his personal state, but of the conditions under which an entire Nation was placed that seemed bent under the blows of a mafia never so overwhelming and massacred. President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that remembering Paolo Borsellino in this solemn Assembly as a hero is not a rhetorical artifice, because he and the men of his escort met, aware, a destiny of death, and they did so to fully honour their sense of duty. Personally, I believe, in line with our Group and the political culture to which I refer, that Bertolt Brecht was wrong when he said that a country that does not need heroes is lucky. I think instead that we need to know that there have been and there are better people than us, people simply more courageous and more determined. Precisely for this reason to me, as a citizen even before as a senator, it freezes the blood to read in the sentence of a court of the Republic that, around the massacre of Via D'Amelio - as it is said - was organized one of the most serious detours in Italian history. Here, then, memory and memory alone are not enough; we need the commitment of all the institutions to find, whatever it costs, the answers of justice. It serves to illuminate and erase the dark pages and shadowy areas that tarnish the spirit of the State and the Republic. I believe we owe it to Borsellino, to the men of his escort and to all the good Italians, who, from that far July 19 of twenty-six years ago, ask that the recent history of this beautiful and unfortunate country of ours be redeemed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u15	VITALI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget: I believe that celebrating a massacre like that of twenty-six years ago serves us, it serves Italians because heroes such as the Magistrate Borsellino and the men of his escort, rather than being examples to imitate, represent a cultural heritage and of legality to emulate. These words come from the depths of my heart, as do those spoken by my fellow Members who preceded me but, allow me, with greater participation, being my family in the Arm of the Carabinieri for four generations. I have lived on my own skin, the anxieties, fears and concerns of family members, children, wives and all those within their families who had a representative of the order. Magistrate, magistrates and police forces who paid a very high price to defend the institutions and the legality. We remember the magistrate Borsellino and remember all the heroes who sacrificed their lives to defend the institutions and the state. We must, however, ask ourselves questions, and we cannot just celebrate them. I think it's time to deal in a definitive and comprehensive way with the events that have seen us sad protagonists in the past years. I cannot read, with all due respect for the work of the judiciary, that a court is casting shadows against defenders of the state, such as General Mori, General Subranni and Colonel De Donno... [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] GIARRUSSO (M5S). Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Giarrusso, don't interrupt. VITALI (FI-BP). ...who sacrificed their lives and achieved important results in the fight against crime. GIARRUSSO (M5S). Not this day! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't interrupt. VITALI (FI-BP). Mr President, this is the least effective way of properly recalling the death of the magistrate Borsellino. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It's time not to speculate. I believe that because these generous acts, driven to the loss of life, are not to be considered useless and futile, it is time for the judiciary and Parliament to address and give a definitive response so that the citizen knows what has happened in the years of the so-called state-organized criminality negotiation, which I refuse to accept as a dogma, but which I am willing to evaluate in the presence of irrefutable and certain elements, if we do not want to deny our history. And we, as parliamentarians, have faced a fight without a neighborhood to organized crime. The speaker was the rapporteur, in the House of Deputies, of the provision for the introduction of Article 41- bis of the Code of Criminal Procedure in a fixed manner. That is, we have stabilized the harsh detention against crime. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] If I am allowed then - and I am sorry that there is no representative of the Government, but I am obviously speaking to the majority - I would hope that Minister Bonafede, who announced miraculous reforms that, instead of shortening the terms of the trials, will lengthen them. [[Applause from Senator Leonardo]] , which, instead of leading to a fight without a neighborhood to the Mafia, wants to fight corruption with the undercover agent, together with the majority and Parliament, tackle in a united and collective way the phenomenon of the fight against organised crime, which is no longer the one, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that we have seen in the films, the threat and the blackmail. Organized crime has now become more refined, has become an economic power, a protagonist of civil society and economic life, and it is against that organized crime that we must fight, establishing precise and clear rules. Only if this is done without controversy and without division will we have properly remembered the sacrifice of so many victims of organised crime. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u18	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I too believe that it is not only due but fair, even after 26 years, to remember in the Chambers of Parliament the sacrifice of Judge Borsellino and his escort. You have already mentioned all the members of the escort who have lost their lives, but let me remind you in particular Manuela Loi, who was the first woman in service in an escort in this country and unfortunately was also the first woman who lost her life in service, escorting Judge Borsellino. In these days, in these weeks, many arguments have been made, there has been much discussion of the sentence of the last trial on the massacre of Capaci. I want to say that that trial - today we can say this - puts an end to years of investigation, verified misdirections, false witnesses, hidden evidence. Today we are to a judicial truth, probably not enough (I will say it later) but today we are to a judicial truth. Borsellino and Falcone were servants of the State, like the agents of their stocks, victims of a massacre in which the mafia - let's remember though - after the maxiprocess, after he did not expect that all its summits would be condemned definitively (of this attributing responsibility to Falcone), and while the National Anti-Mafia Directorate was being built, which Falcone had wanted and that Borsellino, after the death of Falcone, was preparing to direct, attacked the State and the institutions at the time when the State showed that it wanted to fight it. I think it is right to remember, even to honour Borsellino, that if that offensive was defeated it was also thanks to the civil courage of a great movement that rebelled against those massacres, which have been held around the institutions, it defended the principles of legality and freedom that crime wants to conculcate. But of course if today the state shows every day that it knows how to fight the mafias, if it has been able in these years to give very hard blows to the mafias, it is thanks to the instruments that Falcone and Borsellino have imagined and that they have put on the field and for which they have worked: the investigations, the intuition to follow the financial flows to hit the mafias, the construction of the National Anti-Mafia Directorate. These are the great merits that Borsellino had together with Falcone and this we must remember, not only the sacrifice. Remembering Borsellino and his escort in this House, however, cannot and must not only express the sorrow and gratitude for this judge and his escort, but we must also make a commitment: continue to do our part to defeat the mafias, which also means to reason, reflect, deepen, understand the mistakes that politics has made, the connivances that in those years have given strength to organized crime. Justice has taken its course, now it is up to the politics that must give an answer to Fiammetta Borsellino, must not stop to shed light on those years. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u21	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a duty for us to commemorate in this House what happened on 19 July 26 years ago in Via D'Amelio. Not two months after Capaci's massacre, a terrible new Mafia terrorist attack tore the torpor of a hot Sunday in July in Palermo and were brutally killed Judge Paolo Borsellino and the escort agents of the State Police, which I would like to quote once again: Agostino Catalano, Emanuela Loi, Eddie Walter Cosina, Claudio Traina and Vincenzo Li Muli. Our first moved thought goes to their memory and the pain of their family members. Twenty-six years have passed and we still do not know the truth about that attack, nor do we have the full understanding of what happened in Italy between the end of the eighties and the first half of the nineties. As a national anti-Mafia prosecutor, I had the privilege, after having insisted for years, to convince Spatuzza to collaborate with justice and precisely thanks to his statements it was possible to open a new procedural season on Via D'Amelio, which made possible, by the judges of Caltanissetta, the irrefutable proof of the deportment for external interests to ours: political, financial, entrepreneurial interests. However, we must be aware that the action of the judiciary is moving within the strict confines of the judicial investigation of personal responsibilities: to investigate and interpret what is around judicial truth is our task, a task of politics. Aware of this limit, for having worn the robe for forty-three years and for having dealt with these facts in the various roles held, as early as 2013, as President of this House, I had proposed to set up a Commission on all the massacres that remained unsolved, mindful of what was already requested by Parliament in 2002 by the late magistrate Gabriele Chelazzi. While rejecting any conspiracy temptation, we cannot but connect what emerges from facts, reconstructions, declarations and judgments. There is undoubtedly a thread, which starts from the failed attack on Giovanni Falcone at the 1989 Addaura and goes as far as the failed attack on the Carabinieri, in 1994, at the Olympic Stadium in Rome, where the dead should have been hundreds. If one pays attention, one cannot fail to note that many questions about the causality of that deviation still remain open in the investigation of the deportment in Caltanissetta. Who does this for a reason and then I ask myself: what did you want to hide? What was not wanted to come to light? You could make a long list of questions still unanswered, contained in the plot of this tragic Italian novel. There are many questions left unanswered: a list signed today Fiammetta Borsellino in the pages of the daily newspaper "La Repubblica", but many more could be added to those. Just a few of them: why does Riina turn our own into a terrorist group? Why does he repeat the attack less than two months after Capaci, against Paolo Borsellino? Why is the project to kill other politicians after Salvo Lima and Ignazio Salvo, directing mafia violence against artistic heritage? In addition, at the same time as the Mafia attacks, we have seen other disturbing episodes happening in our country, which overlap, in a clear strategy of tension, in 1993. We cannot, then, confine ourselves to commemoration: our duty is higher and requires all of us to assume responsibility and courage. We must follow, for example, what was decided unanimously by the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission in the last parliamentary term, which devoted part of its final report to these facts, and we must move forward in the search for the truth. Only in this way, with concrete acts, can we really honour the memory of men and women, who did not want to be heroes but who, in carrying out their duty, did not stop at anything. I conclude with a personal memory, because I think it is important to remember these figures not only for their death, but above all for what they have been living. I had the privilege of knowing and working closely with Giovanni Falcone and Paolo Borsellino for many years and of the many days spent studying the acts of the maxiprocess I cannot forget the affection and support of Paul, his enthusiasm and tenacity with which he faced his work every day, even knowing that this would cost him his own life. For me he was a great teacher, always prodigal of suggestions and clarifications, always motivated to go ahead with the serenity of a common citizen. The scent of his land of Sicily and the warmth of the people, who began to come out of the shell of omerta, represented for him lifeblood. In those years, the work of Falcone and Borsellino had the great merit of creating a cultural revolution, of moving the minds and consciences of all those who were no longer willing to passively accept the presence of the Mafia. The words that Paolo Borsellino uttered a month after Falcone's death, and a few days after his death, are still a warning to everyone, starting with us, who sit in this Chamber. Speaking of the victims of the mob and his dear friend, Paul said: They have died for all of us, for the wrongdoers. We owe them a great debt, and we must pay them joyfully, continuing their work. I hope that each of us can take advantage of these words. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, pending the conclusion of the ballot box for the election of two members of the Board of Directors of RAI-Radiotelevisione italiana SpA, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 13.28 a.m. and resumed at 13.38 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u23	I declare the result of the secret ballot vote for the election of two members of the Board of Directors of RAI-Radiotelevisione italiana SpA: [[Senators present 296 Senators voting 295]] They got votes: [[Coletti 133 Borioni 101 Roccaro 5 Santoro 2 Rossodivita 1 Mazzola 1 Scheda bianche 21 Scheda nulle 31]] I proclaim elected Beatrice Coletti and Rita Borioni, to whom I address my best wishes for good work. [[Applause.]] I suspend the sitting until 5 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.39 p.m. and resumed at 5.09 p.m.) I greet the election of Senator Maurizio Gasparri to lead the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity of Palazzo Madama. I am sure that you will carry out your task with constant commitment. Good work to President Gasparri and all the members of the Junta. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u24	The next item is the vote on the election of the members of the Executive Board of Administrative Justice, the Court of Auditors and the Court of Justice of the European Communities. [[Brusio.]] Colleagues, please, a little silence, thank you. We shall now proceed to the vote on the election of two members of the Executive Board of Administrative Justice pursuant to Article 7 (1) (d) of Law No 186 of 27 April 1982. This vote will take place by secret ballot on the following list drawn up on the basis of the nominations received by the Groups: - Professor Michele Papa - Professor Salvatore Sica I remember that according to the aforementioned provision of law the two candidates will be proclaimed elected if the list put to the vote will obtain an absolute majority of the votes of the members of the Assembly, i.e. 161 votes. The senators in favour of the proposed list will vote yes; the opposing senators will vote no; the senators who wish to abstain will act accordingly. I declare the vote open by secret ballot, by electronic procedure. (The vote was taken at the next voting time.) [[Senator Barbaro reports the malfunction of his device. Some senators linger at their stations. Comments from the PD Group.]] Enough now: you can't wait any longer. I would ask you to speed up the voting procedure. I declare the result of voting by secret ballot, by electronic procedure, for the election of two members of the Executive Board of Administrative Justice: [[Senators present 289 Senators voting 288 Majority 161 Favorable 264 Contrars 9 Absent 15]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I proclaim elected Professor Michele Papa and Professor Salvatore Sica, to whom I address, on behalf of the Assembly, my best wishes for good work. [[Applause.]] We proceed to the vote for the election of two members of the Board of the Court of Auditors, pursuant to Article 7 (1) (d), of Law No 186 of 27 April 1982 and Article 10 (10) of Law No 117 of 13 April 1988. This vote will take place by secret ballot on the following list drawn up on the basis of the nominations received by the Groups: - Professor Luigi Balestra - avvovovovo Gabriele Fava I remember that according to the aforementioned provision of law the two candidates will be proclaimed elected if the list put to the vote will obtain an absolute majority of the votes of the members of the Assembly, i.e. 161 votes. The senators in favour of the proposed list will vote yes; the opposing senators will vote no; the senators who wish to abstain will act accordingly. I declare open the vote by secret ballot by electronic procedure. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the secret ballot, by electronic procedure, for the election of two members of the Board of the Court of Auditors: [[Senators present 291 Senators voting 290 Majority 161 Favorable 269 Contrars 11 Absent 10]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I proclaim elected Professor Luigi Balestra and lawyer Gabriele Fava, to whom I address, on behalf of the Assembly, my best wishes for good work. [[Applause]] We proceed to the vote for the election of two members of the board of directors of tax justice, pursuant to Article 17 (2) of Legislative Decree No 545 of 31 December 1992 and subsequent amendments. This operation will take place by secret ballot on the following list drawn up on the basis of the nominations received by the Groups: lawyer Antonio Mauriello lawyer Antonio Leone I remember that according to the aforementioned law the two candidates will be declared elected if the list put to the vote will obtain an absolute majority of the votes of the members of the Assembly, i.e. 161 votes. The senators in favour of the proposed list will vote yes; the opposing senators will vote no; the senators who wish to abstain will act accordingly. I declare the vote open by secret ballot, by electronic procedure. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of voting by secret ballot, by electronic procedure, for the election of two members of the Board of Directors of Tax Justice: [[Senators present 290 Senators voting 289 Majority 161 Favorable 271 Contrars 9 Absent 9]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I declare elected the lawyers Antonio Mauriello and Antonio Leone, to whom I address, on behalf of the Assembly, my best wishes for good work. [[Applause.]] (17.20 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u25	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 542. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report and the general debate and the rapporteur's reply took place. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u26	Mr President, you have just stated that Amendment 1,100 is not possible, which calls for a one-year extension for small and medium-sized craft enterprises, i.e. all those operators who will be obliged, from the beginning of the year, to do e-invoicing. Yesterday, in the general discussion, I explained that the aims of this decree-law are positive, in the sense that they tend to bring out tax evasion. However, I would like to put to the attention of the House and especially of the Government, which I see totally absent... Well, Minister Stefani is here on my right. I turn then to the President, to give the attention that we risk, especially because of the difficulties that small and medium-sized enterprises will have in evaluating a digital system...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u27	If the minister wants to reach the benches of the government it would be more correct, even for the senator who can address you directly.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u28	BIASOTTI (FI-BP). I am very pleased that the Minister is here, even if I have some embarrassment in the dual, a bit like the flat tax: the dual tax, the dual minister. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I guess, but I'd rather they respect their roles at least. BIASOTTI (FI-BP). I was saying that I would like to pay attention to the fact that we risk increasing tax evasion because, as you can imagine, all small traders, craftsmen, farmers will be forced to make the electronic invoice, and I think that most or a considerable part of them will decide not to make the invoice because it is too complex. In this sense, I invite the members of this Assembly to go to the sites, to Google, and type in "electronic invoice." You will see that over the last few months some 20 or 30 companies have been set up to help medium, small and very small companies do e-invoicing for a fee. This means that it is not the simplification that we want and that the Government, in words - Di Maio said it two days ago - hopes; it is a complication. Given that, after the threat of the petrol station strike, the Government immediately ran to postpone by six months the date of entry into force of the obligation of electronic invoicing, advance and I think it will happen the same on 1 December. Imagine, above all, how the date of 1 December, the d-day, will complicate life for craftsmen, who will already have the problem of holidays, the closing of the year, the billing, the warehouses. It is really an unhappy date, and it does not say Forza Italia, but the associations of accountants, the API, the association of small entrepreneurs, the association of farmers say so. That is what the League itself said yesterday, saying that farmers, for example, should be given a new delay. This is what the Director of the Revenue Agency says - and I shall conclude, Mr President - that he said at a recent conference that they are not ready to assist millions of micro and small companies who are not suddenly able to make an electronic invoice. Therefore, the positive aims will become negative, the advance today and I ask the Government to reason on the possibility of an extension or at least - I illustrate a subsequent amendment and then I no longer speak - to arrange that for a year there is the double possibility of the paper and electronic invoice, and above all that no fines are imposed, because we already have up to the hair of fines of various kinds to the detriment of medium and small enterprises.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Amendment 1.4 which we have tabled takes into account the need for the category, to which it is right to pay attention, but without sacrificing the need for tax and tax systems. We have submitted both to the Commission and now to the House an amendment that recovers the double track: making it possible to pay by e-invoicing and to make it available to the public, in such a way that those who are ready can find it as in force, and also allowing the use of the fuel card. This is a double track that meets the category, but does not sacrifice the need for remote memory, digitalization and even data production that allows the fight against evasion. For this reason, we made it possible in detail to make the most of this amendment, not only what the Revenue Agency said, but also in yesterday's hearing of Minister Tria. Both represented the need not to disperse this administrative tradition, which is being set up, of data production that then allow information and control of what happens regarding the purchase of goods and services, starting, of course, from the sale of fuel. For this reason, I expect and hope that the opinion of the rapporteur and that of the Government will be favourable. VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Where's the government?
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u30	I understand the request. I'm asking the government representative to sit down. From this position it was not possible to see him. Thank you for letting me know, very kind. I would kindly ask the representative of the Government to take his place, so that we can move forward without further interruption. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u31	Mr President, I agree with Senator Biasotti's words on the issue of e-invoicing, particularly as regards small and medium-sized enterprises and also the elderly, as I said last night. Specifically, the proposed amendment is very simple. The government decree-law postpones the problem by six months only for fuel distributors, but not for all other operators who do the same work anyway (so as to be clear); so we ask that, at least, such people should not be punished at this stage. In fact, Decree-Law No 79 was postponed until 1 January only for the operation of the fuel disposal of the distribution road systems, while the subcontractors and subcontractors, for which the contractor has in place a contract with the public administration and the supplies of diesel and petrol put in place by entities other than fuel distributors, have remained in the obligation since 1 July. In view of this, we are asking with this amendment that until 31 December of the current year (2018) no sanctions should apply in the event of an analogue invoice being issued instead of the digital one. I believe it is a measure of justice that would demonstrate to citizens and taxpayers that ours is not a state that wants to vex them, but rather a state that wants to respond to the problems of the community.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u32	Mr President, since my amendment is the same as that put forward by Senator De Bertoldi, I agree with what my colleague has said and I ask the House and, above all, the Government to share our proposal, which we believe to be fair.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u33	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion. Mr. Representative of the Government, I need your opinion. [[Comments from the PD Group]] . BELLANOVA (PD) The government representative must listen! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I've already called the government representative back to his duties. At least give her time to sit in her place to give her opinions. [[Protests from the PD Group]] The government representative is here. MALPEZZI (PD). You're never there!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u34	Mr President, I call for the withdrawal or the opinion is against Amendments Nos 1,101, 1.5, 1,102, 1,103, identical to Amendment No 1,104, and on the G1.1 agenda. On the agenda for G1,100, I propose the following rewording of the part of the provisions: • commit the Government to consider implementing measures aimed at combating illegality and organised crime in the field of the marketing and distribution of fuel • I would like to ask Senator Casini, the first signatory to the agenda, whether he intends to accept the reformulation. (17.33 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u35	Is the government representative ready to give his opinion?
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u36	Mr President, I agree with the rewording of the G1100 agenda proposed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u37	Mr President of the Government, I would also ask you to comment on the amendments and on the other agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u38	Mr Borgonzoni, State Secretary for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism. Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. [[Comments from the PD Group]] BELLANOVA (PD). The government has to listen!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u39	Wait a minute, I just started chairing the session. Let me know what you're talking about. Calm down and cold blood! [[Senator Pharaoh's comments.]] I see a very agitated senator, but I can't understand why. FARAONE (PD). Let's have the speaker sit at the government desks! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Have a seat, Senator, and do not give instructions to the rapporteur and the representative of the Government, because, as you know, you are opposed. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u42	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, if the rapporteur does his job properly. We have not at all understood the opinion on Amendment 1.4, so I would ask the rapporteur to clarify that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I have nothing against the rapporteur taking the floor again, but it seems to me that there was an invitation to withdraw or to vote against.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u43	Mr President, this is the way it is: I call for amendment 1.4 to be withdrawn or the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u44	I therefore ask Senator Casini if he will accept the rewording of the agenda G1,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u45	Mr President, I accept the rewording proposed by the rapporteur and the representative of the Government, because I was interested in a goal - in fact, the agenda was signed by all the parliamentary groups present, of majority and opposition - that a fight against illegality and organised crime in the field of fuel distribution, because there is an increasingly growing black market. Therefore, this goal is guaranteed and I have no problems.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u46	Amendment 1,100 is unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u49	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, in the Commission we have done a great deal of work to try to meet the needs of the groups we have been represented. A work that has been carried out in several sessions and has also been nourished by the views of the audit staff, in particular of the Revenue Agency and, as I said before, of Minister Tria, a work that has found a growing consensus, on the substance of the matter, also by several colleagues. It is not possible today to ask for the withdrawal of the amendment, without trying to make a further effort to ensure that it is able to improve the decree-law. The measure certainly arises from listening to those who are put in trouble but, on the other hand, it will create difficulties for the functioning of the tax and tax system. That is why we have asked to try to recover the double track, which saves the need of both the category, as well as the tax and tax system, namely: who is ready, uses e-invoicing, who does not make it, has the double track. In this way, we do not panic, for the needs of operation, the entire apparatus of our system, which needs digital data and intelligence, as well as technical equipment, as we have been represented by the Director of the Revenue Agency and President of the Revenue-Risk Agency. We cannot activate measures which contradict what we have heard both in the Commission's examination and in the broad political debate. That is why I absolutely cannot accept that we should simply ask ourselves to withdraw the amendment, because we must ensure that these opportunities for work improve, without dismantling what has been done in the past from the point of view of the infrastructure of the system. We also keep from account that we have approximately 871 billion euros of warehouse that we cannot make object of processing for a lack of adequacy of data. To ensure that e-invoicing is simply postponed is a damage and means that the ability to operate the tax system in relation to evasion is in difficulty and in short supply. That is why I would like the rapporteur to reconsider his position, as well as the government, provided that the government is following this dossier as well as the others that we will have to cultivate.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u52	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I am a member of the Finance and Treasure Committee together with my colleague Mr D'Alfonso. In my opinion, the reasoning of the double track leads to further chaos. In fact, if the Government has decided to extend the start-up of e-invoicing for a sector, it is because it has been realized that in the last parliamentary term, when the e-invoicing package was made, a system has been adopted which is not entirely suitable for companies. In fact, some companies have difficulties. This is where the measure comes from, to help certain types of companies. Creating the double track recreates chaos and then it's normal for the Revenue Agency to have trouble controlling data. We are therefore deeply opposed to making a change in this respect. On the question of the warehouse, to which my colleague has referred, instead, I would like to remind the Assembly that this warehouse comes from some roles that you cannot erase, because the legislation is wrong. We have written roles that remain for years and years, when there is now no news of the debtor taxpayers where they are, whether they are alive or dead. We must then go and influence the tax registry and it will be another step that the Government will take to resolve the issue of the Agency's warehouse of revenue and collections. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u53	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,101, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. BIASOTTI (FI-BP). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,101, tabled by Senator Biasotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u54	We are asking for the vote and I would like to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u56	CONZACTS (FI-BP). Mr President, we ask the House, as announced yesterday, to appreciate this amendment, which goes in the same direction as Decree-Law No 79 of 2018. We have now heard, at the mouth of the government spokesman, that the government has realized that some companies have difficulties. We do not understand, from the subjective point of view, why fuel suppliers have difficulties and subcontractors do not have the same difficulties, since from the subjective point of view they are the same type of company. From this point of view, without prejudice to the reasons for the greater revenue already allocated to the budget, it is requested to reconsider this possibility and therefore to extend Decree-Law No 79 also to subcontractors. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u57	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Sciascia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 1,102, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. BIASOTTI (FI-BP). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,102, tabled by Senator Biasotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 1,103, which is identical to Amendment No 1,104, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u58	Mr President, I insist on the vote on Amendment No 1,103 and we reiterate that we believe it is absolutely inconceivable that a decree-law, as Mrs Conzatti said, should be extended by six months... [[Senator De Petris' comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u59	That's the credit. For now, just say if you insist. We are asking for the vote. STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). We also call for the vote on Amendment No 1,104. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u62	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, I have practically already spoken, but I repeat that, at a time when the Government extends a rule for fuel distributors, it is not clear why subcontractors should be subject to sanctions. We therefore call for at least an overall treatment of the problem.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u63	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,103, tabled by Senator De Bertoldi, identical to Amendment 1,104, tabled by Senator Steger and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.1, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The agenda (text 2) was accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u66	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). President. - I insist on the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u67	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1,100 (text 2), presented by Senator Casini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u68	I inform you that, on behalf of the prescribed number of senators, an urgent request has been received for inclusion in the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly, pursuant to Rule 55, paragraph 7, of the Rules of Procedure, of the discussion of the bill n. 604, which contains: It extends the deadline for the exercise of the delegation for the reform of the Third sector, of the social enterprise and for the discipline of the universal civil service, referred to in Law 6 June 2016, n. 106. The vote on the request will take place at the end of the sitting, i.e. after the explanations of vote and the final vote on the draft law No 542.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u69	We shall now proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u72	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, one of the tasks of the legislator is to build balanced paths in the introduction of rules, especially when they concern businesses and professionals and involve a thorough review of the work organisation. We are talking about a country that produces and works, a country that generates employment and growth opportunities and that has always called for greater bureaucratic simplicity. The entry into force of e-invoicing, like all payment traceability tools, is useful to counter evasion and to find resources to lower the tax burden. As a Group for Autonomies we will support all those measures that will be able to feed this combination, but in order to do so - as I said before - you have to know how to get down in the everyday life of the enterprises, avoiding that the new instruments are lived as a new cost, a new bureaucratic obstacle. It is therefore essential to work towards their gradual introduction, with that margin of tolerance and common sense that must not be lacking from the tax system. For these reasons I had tabled an amendment asking for the extension of the entry into force of the sanctions also for those subjects in the sector that have been removed from the scope of the decree-law. The amendment has been declared inadmissible and yet, precisely in these hours, we learn from authoritative economic newspapers of the Government's will to proceed with the sterilization of sanctions with the decree of dignity. I do not enter into technical-normative assessments of the homogeneity of decree-laws on which, in 2013, the then president of the Republic Giorgio Napolitano sent a letter to the Presidents of Chamber and Senate. I just note that the decree-law that we examine today is two weeks older than Decree-Law No 87 of 2018 and, therefore, will most likely be converted first. If the government's will is to sterilize sanctions, why not proceed now? All this would have helped the companies concerned, which in the meantime remain uncertain, but still have to adapt to the new obligations. When we talk about companies, about bureaucracy, about an allied tax system of production, we have to move with great concreteness. We need to show determination and courage and, therefore, we could and should have done more by using the decree-law for a more in-depth reflection on the sector, as President Casini also urged with his agenda on the fight against organised crime in the marketing and distribution of fuels. For these reasons, our Group will abstain. We do this because for distributors and professionals the extension is already operational, but it could be done differently; everything could be done a little better, certainly with greater commitment and taking into account the daily needs of our companies and, above all, our small companies. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV)]] and PD).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u75	BUCCARELLA (Mixed). Mr President, for the Mixed Group I wish to express a sharing of the Government's concerns in the adoption of this decree-law that we are about to convert today. In fact, the requests received from many categories to obtain the extension with reference to the obligation of electronic invoicing for fuel distributors - let us remember - have come not only from the same federations of the distribution of fuel, but also from the national Confederation of the crafts and small and medium enterprises, from the National Institute of tributists and the Order of Doctors accountants and accounting experts and from the national Federation associations agents and representatives of commerce. The demands were more than understandable, expected that to the category of fuel distributors was applied in the last budget law (with paragraph 920 and the surroundings of Article 1), a sort of experiment, since that category was proposed essentially as guinea pig for the verification of the operation of the electronic invoicing system, whose aims are clear and acceptable and are: the fight and the contrast to the evasion of VAT and other taxes that weigh on the fuel distribution system. It is easy to understand that the requests received by the Government and which we are called to evaluate today are based on the obvious consideration that the computer machine made available by the Revenue Agency (which seems to have been part of its duty) but above all the very structuring of the distribution network... [[Brusio]] Mr President, it is not that what I am saying is of any importance, but I would like to ask, if possible, for me and for those who will follow in the speeches, if we could have a moment more silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u76	You're right, Senator Buccarella. My colleague is unable to complete his speech because there is a fundamental buzz with decibels that are far higher than normal. If you are not interested in explanations of vote, no one forces you to stay in the Chamber, you can return to the vote. Anyone who decides to stay in the Chamber is asked to listen. You can continue, Senator, the time lost will not be counted.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr President, I shall begin with the conclusion. The objective fact that we cannot ignore and that has been represented is that a significant part of the fuel distribution system is made up of small kiosks. It is easy to understand, therefore, that, in having to prepare the technical instrumentation for the electronic sending for the adoption of FTP protocols, as they are called in computer jargon: transfer protocol files (and those who are familiar with the computer science of ten years ago know what we are talking about), that category is the weakest, obviously, the least organized and could complain and have feared the application with sanctions, since 1 July last. The measure therefore seems entirely reasonable in adapting the regulation of e-invoicing for that specific category with respect to all the audience that, from 1 June 2019, will be involved in this new system, that we trust has a general and efficient application, both on the side of the public administration, and on the side of natural or legal persons with VAT consignments. Therefore, on behalf of the members of the Mixed Group, I am voting in favour of this draft conversion law. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u80	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, the subject has also been well expressed by my fellow Members. I repeat that I regret the fact that a small step has been taken when a much larger step could be taken. Of course, fuel distributors get an extension of six months, but all the others, subcontractors and other realities that operate with the public administration in the fuel sector, are penalized and, as we saw a few minutes ago, the House did not even approve of the attempt to block sanctions. However, in the explanation of vote, I wish to make a more general point and I come from the hearing of Mr Tria, who, in response to the same requests we made yesterday in the Commission, responded substantially by appealing to legal certainty. Basically, he told us: there is this need to give all companies a certainty, the certainty, precisely, that from 1 January 2019 we must apply e-invoicing. To the Minister and to this House I would like to remind you that there would be another certainty that it would be important to consider: the certainty of common sense. The rule must be applied, of course, but the rule must also take into account the problems of the categories to which it is to be subjected. So, as I said yesterday, of the problems of the elderly, who will have to download the invoice of Enel rather than of light, water and gas from an Internet platform, because they will no longer arrive a paper bill, if not for payment; the problems of the small craftsman and small enterprises, who will be forced to carry everything on digital and, in fact, will be forced to turn to companies, professionals, structures that, of course, will be charged to do the double billing that will become necessary. At that point, in fact, there will be the craftsman who will make the paper invoice, the professional or the service company that will transform it into a virtual invoice and, then, after you will have to reprint for the third time the electronic invoice. And all this for the benefit of whom? For the benefit of software houses that take from 10 to 30 cents per invoice. So, this is the business that's around the electronic invoice. So, since you still want to go in that direction, at least you go with common sense, as I said, and then gradually. This instance of ours is not so much and is not only the petition of Brothers of Italy, of which we are proud to be bearers, but it is also an instance that has emerged listening to the categories, from Rete Impresa Italy to the National Council of Accountants Doctors, of which, unfortunately, this Assembly, or rather this Government, has not taken note. It seems to me a lot, from the words of Minister Tria, that he has read too many times the Prince of Lampedusa: everything changes because nothing changes. This reference to legal certainty seems so much to me to want to change something without, in fact, changing the meaning of the Government's approach to the problems of citizens. We want the approach to change. We want people's problems, business problems, older people's problems to be taken into account. That is why the Brothers of Italy release the abstention vote on the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u83	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, this explanation of vote naturally relates to the previous speeches, both in this House and in the Commission, and it is an explanation of vote concerning, in fact, the second decree-law; a decree-law which must be included in the context in which we find ourselves from the point of view of taxation and taxation and the knowledge we have acquired through our institutional activities. It is not a neutral day today, as today follows the day of yesterday's hearing of Minister Tria, who declared, from the point of view of the active policies present within the government contract, that those active policies will be able to find body on the condition that there are adequate revenues, that there is the exact consistency of exits and revenues. And during yesterday's hearing, Minister Tria, just to my comment on the danger of distribution of words in Italy with regard to the indeterminateness of tax obligations, has made a commitment that there will be, with respect to this indeterminateness, no position that favours generalist tax sanatories and less - in the face of my question - no fiscal jubilee. Why do I say that? Because sometimes administrative and regulatory acts suggest that then there may be what may be expected in the worst conduct of citizenship. And what is the worst conduct of citizenship that can be induced by measures such as the one under examination? That the shift of the six-month electronic invoicing obligation may have the appearance of a certain special and determined nature, that is, that of the owl or the cuckoo; it is not so problematic what we are discussing now, but what can be introduced later, with a certain proposal for a regulatory framework, if we move forward the obligation of invoicing on important passages concerning purchases of goods and services. We know that the context in which we are operating is of this fact: for example, the collection of the spontaneous revenue managed by the Revenue Agency through the services provided to taxpayers in 2017 was EUR 412 billion (+ 7.6 billion compared to 2016) and the Revenue-Riscossion Agency put in place, in 2017, a +44 percent compared to 2016, putting € 12.7 billion into the collection. We have also cashed in as Revenue-Risk Agency, through the dismantling of the folders, 6.5 billion euros. This is the basket we have, which should have the strength to cover active policies that are also part of your documents of commitment before citizenship. Well, in view of the need for additional resources relating to the machinery of the public decision, what is the initiative taken as a second measure? The move forward of the billing obligations. Of course, it is a request that refers to a real need: the real requirement of a category, which is that of operators the distribution of fuel along our road system. A requirement that needs to be met. We have also met partners in these worlds: there are the operators' interlocutors and there are the drivers' interlocutors. We have worked to ensure that the need is met, but without dismantling the infrastructure of our tax and tax machinery. Also yesterday, Minister Tria strengthened the need for data, digital intelligence, the quality of information, remote memory, because it takes automation to make sure that a climate is born, a condition of collaborative reciprocity. What is the reason for our opposition? Of course, we are opposed to the merit of this filiform proposal, but we are opposed to the consequences, to the one that opens from the point of view of cultural posture, that is, that is to say, that it is distributed as an eventuality; so much so that yesterday in the Commission there was the need to ask the Minister as a question: but is it not that, even then, the relationship of compulsory contributions is being dismantled? It is not that this indeterminateness blows the idea of a loyal citizen: then I am wrong? It is for this reason that we have worked to improve the decree-law, not only to oppose it by producing an attitude of opposition. We wanted to improve it, making sure that there could be a measure of attention to the categories that asked and spoke, as it is right that it is: on the other hand, an order how it raises awareness, how it updates, how it enriches its agenda? Even interloquente. This is why we asked for the double track, which has been observed in the Commission, as well as in bilateral talks which are part of the working life of a Commission. However, in the end we have even seen the invitation of the representative of the government and the representative of the majority in charge, who tell us: go further, withdraw it. We fear this, not only because this measure has a direct cost of 87 million euros, but also because of the load of cultural opposition that we must bear with fear. We need to work on an idea of order that doesn't start over at every legislative stage. There is a beautiful statement by a great jurist who helped the productivity of these Aules, Massimo Severo Giannini, who thundered against indeterminateness when this is produced by the legal system, but also by the political ruling class at the address of both criminal law and tax and tax law. Indeterminateness kills the co-operating and loyal citizen, the citizen who takes a positive cooperative attitude towards the duties of a democratic system. For this reason, let me once again represent the attitude of cultural honesty that we have had; a cultural honesty that has produced the effort of an improved amendment and also the effort of an agenda that makes it clear to the Government that there is no bet with respect to the relaxation of tax duties. Within the fiscal rigour there are the resources to cover the rights, the increase of opportunities and also the ability to operate a system. For these reasons, we are opposed to the decree-law, as it was conceived, knowing that this decree-law will probably not have long life, in the sense that it has the life of a butterfly destined only to find a need of the moment and the point. And that is exactly what legislative production must no longer do: constitute itself as administrative production, as provision. We need a legislative production that lasts, enriches and intrusives the order, and not that it has the appearance of the measure ad hoc for the individual and specific case. In this way we determine a flood of the machine that makes the citizen's relationship with the state difficult. Therefore, ours is opposition for these reasons, but it is in the interest of finding a way out that does not make the state anxious when it has to collect taxes to finance measures, rights and opportunities. That explains the reason for the opposition. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u86	ROMEO (L-SP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Senators, Members of the Government, the League will vote in favour of the bill of conversion of the decree-law extending the entry into force of the obligation of electronic invoicing for fuel supplies, taking into account the technical difficulties that have been manifested by operators in the sector. We thank the Government for the intervention because, meanwhile, to think of triggering the obligation of electronic invoicing for the activity of fuel supply on 1 July - I say it in the ironic sense - was really a genius! It would have been expected, of course, the protests of the categories. On the other hand, considering the approach of the summer holidays, I would say that the measure has been badly thought out; it will already be difficult - we say on the basis of what we have collected on the territory - to trigger the obligation of electronic invoicing for all categories from 1 January 2019. So, thank you to the government for the timely intervention. In fact, many organizational difficulties have been encountered, especially from all the operators, many of whom will not be ready, as they have already stated in more than one circumstance, with the risk also concrete - we have emphasized it, but it has been evidenced also in various interventions - to attend to a rise of the costs for studies of accountants, software companies, certification agencies, banks and banking intermediaries, that have come forward, with a high cost, in order to give a hand to the companies in difficulty. Moreover, someone will have to explain to us the reason for wanting to anticipate to 2019 the e-invoicing: only country in Europe to do so, and I stress that. [[Applause from the L-SP, M5S and FdI Groups]] Explain to us why this anticipation, with all the problems that will arise also in terms of discrepancies on the harmonization, at European level, of the payment of VAT; let us not forget this too. It reminds me that thinking wrong is a sin, but often it is right. We have to think that the government probably made a run to try to anticipate e-invoicing because maybe it needed a couple of billion euros. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] So they predicted the entrance. By the way, an entry which is far from certain, because then we really need to check whether tax evasion will be countered in this way. In fact, probably many operators who will not be ready, perhaps with the fear of being wrong and not being able to do e-invoicing, it may be that they do not exactly make the invoice; therefore, nothing but revenue of 2 billion euros! However, we are talking about an income that is not certain, but it is money that has already been spent, because this is the mechanism: money that has already been spent! [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] We would also have been delighted to have adopted a few minority amendments, which, perhaps, we agreed on in this respect, but you know that once we have entered the budget, if we want to make an amendment, we need to find cover, and to find 2 billion, because that would be the idea, perhaps even to create the double track - as someone pointed out - we need resources. The hope is that the government can find a method, a mechanism, resources such that operators can gradually adapt to the new system. The double track perhaps had to be thought of at the origin: it would have been a much more common sense form to allow all operators to adapt. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] That was the logic, but we saw how it went. We therefore hope that the Government - which we thank again - can do something with the next measures, meeting all the operators, but it is clear that we will have to find the resources and this is another nice problem that we have found ourselves on the shoulders and that obviously comes from the previous Government. Nevertheless, the commitment will be there to the end and we reaffirm with this our vote favorable to the conversion of a decree law that has already done something positive and has come to meet the legitimate demands of the operators of the field. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u89	SCIASCIA (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the measure in the vote today concerns the postponement from 1 July 2018 to 31 December 2018 of the obligation of electronic invoicing and related obligations, first of all the obligation of traceability of the payment for the purchase at road distributors by entities VAT of fuel for traction, that is to say gasoline and diesel, and therefore with the explicit exclusion of any other type of propellant, such as methane and liquefied gas. A little history. The obligation of electronic invoicing for the supply of petrol and gas oil in road installations intended to supply combustion engines for motor vehicles, with the exclusion therefore of fuels for the use of aircraft and boats, is provided by paragraph 917 of the 2017 Budget Law for 2018, only in respect - subjective requirement - of companies in any form constituted and of those who exercise arts and professions, activities all subject to the VAT decree. Consequently, the activities subject to the scheme of advantage or to the flat-rate scheme for the purposes of Decree No 633 of 1972 are excluded. Private individuals, of course, are excluded from this obligation, as well as non-resident persons (foreign citizens who come to gas in Italy). Article 164 TUIR is also amended, providing that the costs of traction fuels are deductible, but only if they are made through traceable payments (bonifications, cheques, credit cards, prepaid vouchers). For VAT deduction, on the other hand, the third paragraph of Article 22 of the so-called VAT decree is amended, stating that purchases - I repeat: petrol and diesel - must be made by electronic invoice. These are provisions - for direct taxes and VAT - which are not perfectly coordinated, since for income taxes the deductibility of the cost is given not by the issue of the invoice, but by the traceable payment; the opposite for VAT, which results, for example, that in the case of cash payments made by a VAT entity because the distributor's POS is unusable (which happens often) but for which in any case an electronic invoice is issued, the cash payment will entail the indeducibility of the cost but the deductibility of VAT and this does not seem a logical issue. All this said, having provided for the beginning of this complex procedure since 1 July 2018 has turned out to be really sudden, since, as it is reported, the associations of the fuel road distributors were not able to fulfil their obligations because, for that date, the plants had to be technically adapted, which, as is known, involves above all IT requirements. On the other hand, I note that the beginning of the compliances from 1 July has been a not well calculated gamble for the financial administration, because, although having issued numerous circulars (as always difficult to interpret), it adopted one of great importance on 2 July (the n. 13/E of 2018) which contains important indications after the entry into force of the measure. What are these innovations? It is established that the supplies of fuel made outside road distribution plants are not subject to the legislation, with the effect therefore - exemplifying - that for the supplies of petrol and diesel made by producers-refiners to the transport companies or rental directly for the storage in company distributors does not require the electronic invoice. More importantly, the reference to the electronic invoicing obligation for purchases of fuels intended for use in agricultural vehicles - tractors, tractors and so on - is confirmed, but - and this is the new point - without prejudice to the obligation from 1 July of the traceable payment, for the purposes of tax deductibility of the transaction. Finally, the provision in question confirms that the provisions of paragraph 917 (b) of the fiscal law for 2018, according to which subcontractors operating under public administration contracts are subject to the obligation from 1 July. This is a completely questionable provision (both the original and the non-extending), which is repeated in the measure under consideration, so that from 1 July there will be children and stepchildren, that is, the contractor who will apply the legislation from 1 January 2019 and the subcontractor - which, for example, could be a surveyor who will carry out measurements on behalf of the contracting undertaking the construction of a road - from 1 July 2018. Why? All that has been said and considered, although we generally consider it appropriate and necessary for all parties (users, traders and the financial administration itself) to have a further period of time for this type of electronic invoices, we cannot fully agree on the measure and therefore we will abstain. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u92	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, the 2017 Budget Act No 205 provides for the obligation of e-invoicing from 1 July 2018, for fuel purchases, and that is the rule that we are going to amend. First of all, I would like to refer to what my colleague Mr Romeo said about starting the billing from 1 July, i.e. mid-year. We have to link all the issues: if we make annual VAT declarations, but until 30 June there is a method of billing and then there is another one from 1 July onwards, a bit of chaos is created. Therefore, postponing the obligation to 1 January 2019 is essential to have consistent data to make an analysis and to communicate data. As far as our programme is concerned, I do not know whether Mr D'Alfonso is concerned about whether or not we will find the money to implement our programme or whether he is concerned that our programme will work, because we have established steps, which are what Mr Tria has said. Minister Tria said that the various measures written in the government contract will be carried out as soon as possible, i.e. that the holes that have been made by the past governments will not be produced. So - I don't know - he's worried because we want to keep our accounts in order? I am very happy that, fortunately, there is a government that also deals with this. I remember everyone in the campaign accused us, saying that we would never find the money, while this time we find the solution to a problem. Then it is necessary for someone to make peace with his brain. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] Returning to the issue of e-invoicing, I remember that it has been mentioned since 2015 and that there have been various measures: we move, we do, we postpone, etc. E-invoicing is part of a tax review project that will bring benefits precisely to create a friendly tax. In fact, the citizen must be prevented from having to speak with terror with the Revenue-Risk Agency. E-invoicing also serves this purpose, as well as the transmission of VAT data. The Minister promoted the adoption of the decree-law in question because, having entered the Ministry, he realized that some passages were wrong. So, we're trying to solve the problems of previous governments. I refer not to a single government, but to all the precedents, because - in our opinion - the current situation is the result of twenty or thirty years of wrong politics. Entering the Ministries, we are slowly trying to meet the needs of citizens and businesses, to ensure that Italy can develop. We are talking about the development that serves to repay the public debt and bring down the debt-to-GDP ratio, bringing Italy back to the consideration it once had. We are convinced that this is only the first step towards the completion of our government programme and we are putting ourselves in the position of listening to all sides. For us, small and medium-sized enterprises are important, and I would say micro-enterprises, because the Italian fabric is made up of very small enterprises, which are often forgotten. I would like to remind my colleagues, including the new ones, that in the last parliamentary term we pushed for the opening of a fund in the budget chapter for small and medium-sized enterprises, in which we felt it was correct to pay the surpluses. We had a fund for small and medium-sized enterprises which did not work. There has been media pressure and we have paid our surpluses. This has been discussed throughout the country and, finally, small and medium-sized enterprises have gone to ask for funding. I would like you to look at the policy that is being implemented through the Government contract really as a vision of a new country, made up of many small pieces, which - I repeat - will lead the country to have that strong consideration also in Europe, even attracting foreign investors. In the last legislature we made a series of rules to attract foreign investors, but these came here, they bought, they "eat" us and they left. We are reconstructing firm and determined rules, because Italy must count and have its own specific weight in the European issue and in the national issue. We are convinced of what we are doing and our vote can only be favourable to the conversion of this decree-law. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u95	BONFRISCO (L-SP). Mr President, I would just like to say that my vote on the G1100 agenda, although I voted in favour of it because of a temporary error in the voting mechanism, was abstaining; but my will and vote were in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u96	We take note, no matter who made the mistake. A note came to the President of the Senate, with which four senators, Senator Inginini, Senator Ginetti, Senator Renzi and Senator Bonifazi, pointed out that, with regard to today's vote on Amendment 1,102, they wanted to vote against it, which they were unable to express. We take note of that. I would point out, however, that these clarifications - which in this case do not change the result - are only for information and information, but could not under any circumstances alter the result proclaimed; for political purposes and for personal correctness, with absolute good will, we take note of the clarification. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u97	We proceed to the examination of the proposal, made pursuant to Rule 55, paragraph 7 of the Rules of Procedure, with which we are asked to include in the timetable of the proceedings the discussion of the bill n. 604, as I had preannounced, containing: It extends the deadline for the exercise of the delegation for the reform of the Third sector, of the social enterprise and for the discipline of the universal civil service, referred to in Law 6 June 2016, n. 106. Senator Calderoli, who made the request, has the right to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u98	Mr President, our request is in accordance with paragraph 7 of Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure, which provides that, for urgent and urgent reasons, an item which has not been included in the work programme may be included in our timetable. I believe that this evening is not the time to go into the substance of the measure, because it is a very broad speech. As a short premise, I inform you that by 21 July the Committee on Constitutional Affairs should have delivered an opinion on the legislative decree correcting the so-called code of the third sector, however, despite the joint commitment of majority and opposition to allow such fulfillment and the consequent exercise of the delegation itself, it was not possible to express this opinion because there is no opinion of the Council of State and therefore the deadline of 21 July cannot be respected. Moreover, a similar deadline is also provided for the exercise of the delegation, because the delegation law must be exercised on 3 August and therefore on a few days later than the deadline to express the opinion. Having the fear that we will not be able to reach the adoption of a corrective measure (which I think everyone wants), we have developed this so-called legging which allows an extension of four months (which basically become three because there is the month of August) and for which there is the need for an approval in very short time. So we propose that it be scheduled for tomorrow morning's sitting. The reasons for this are determined by the fact that the Commission has given the rapporteur the mandate, so we are ready to report back to the House, and the urgency comes from the time limits I mentioned earlier. I hope that Members will speak only on the procedural issue; then we will have time and opportunity to discuss the matter without reopening a debate already held in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u99	Senator Calderoli is correct in saying that we do not deal with the subject matter; we can simply intervene to justify the agreement or the opposition to the request just made.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u102	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we will also have the opportunity to discuss the substance of what we have done in the Commission. We are voting against the inclusion of this bill in the agenda of the Assembly. I would point out to everyone that, however, the deadline for delegation is 3 August, so I and many of my colleagues believe that an extension does not help us to do a good job and to express the relevant opinion and therefore to approve the corrective decree at the correct and planned time.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u105	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I would like to express our opposition to the proposal that is being put forward, because, as in this case, the procedure is essential. We are faced with the request to delay the adoption by a few months of the definitive measure for the entry into force of the corrective decree for a delay of a few days of the Council of State, but it is clear that there is no relationship between a delay of a few days and a wish to postpone of a few months. In the Commission, we have debated this issue for a long time. To date, we still do not have a draft opinion on which to try to build shared choices on an act awaited by the whole world of the third sector, which does not want to prolong uncertainty but certainties and does not want to delay. Our belief is that the government has plenty of time to make the choices it has to make. The government's duty is to govern and not postpone. The possibility of the extension being reduced from the original six months to four as a circumstance to be satisfied leaves us bewildered for the simple reason that it is always a mistake. To be satisfied because from a very serious mistake we move to a little less error seems to us really too much. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u108	PAGE (FI-BP). Mr President, Mr Calderoli's proposal, the Forza Italia Group welcomes it. We took part in the debate in the first Commission on the question of the third sector code and we felt that we were in favour of Mr Calderoli's request to make sure that this correction to the third sector code can see the light. We have, of course, listened to the rapporteur for the measure, who intends to submit the opinion to us in order to share it and to try to share the text. It seems more than enough to us and, therefore, we support the request for inclusion in the timetable, which obviously preludes a vote in favour, in the event that this measure should be included on the agenda of tomorrow's sitting. [[Applause from Senator Berardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u111	GRASSI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make it clear that the request for postponement does not stem from the intention of not addressing the problem or of not giving answers to the third sector. Already after the entry into force of the third sector code, a valuable and important work for this country, criticism and objections were formulated by doctrine and jurisprudence. The corrective decree should be formulated as carefully as possible. In our view, the time available is objectively insufficient. Here the problem is not even political anymore, but only exquisitely technical. It is true that the country needs this code, which - I repeat - is already in force. It is true that the associations are asking for corrective measures, but I would stress that they must be of good quality and of valuable workmanship and that a little more time is needed to be such. A little more time is needed to study and understand the problems and to accept the comments received from the associations. Therefore, I believe that granting these months does not mean giving a negative response to the associations, but on the contrary it means saying to them: we have listened carefully to your observations and we want to translate them into the best possible text. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u112	It seems to me that no one else wants to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u113	This is one of the few cases where you still vote for a show of hands.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u115	You've already spoken. You are Vice President and you know that better than I do, but you have the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u116	Mr Calderoli (L-SP). Mr President, I have presented the proposal and I would be entitled to speak for ten minutes on behalf of my Group, but I would just like to ask you... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's not exactly like that. Mr Calderoli (L-SP). No, that's right. Mr President, in addition to tomorrow's timetable at 9.30 a.m., I propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 10 p.m. this evening. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's not confuse roles. This is decided by the Presidency and the Offices have proposed that this deadline be set for tonight at 8 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u119	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. The deadline for tabling amendments cannot be set when we have not yet voted on the request to include the measure on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u120	You're absolutely right, but it wasn't established. I replied to Senator Calderoli, who had proposed setting the time limit for 10 p.m., that the intention was to fix it after the decision to schedule the measure if it was approved. I put to the vote the proposal to include the draft law No 604 in the timetable for the work of the Assembly. It's approved. The deadline for amendments is 8 p.m. this evening.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u122	Colleagues, as this is an intervention for a tragic event, I would ask you either to leave the Chamber silently or to listen to him.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u123	You have the floor, Senator Abbot. ABATE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great sadness that I take the floor in this House for the first time, to convey to you the grave mourning that has struck the community of Rossano-Corigliano, in the province of Cosenza, from which I come. Last July 15, in a car accident on the A1 motorway, between the tollbooths of Cepraro and Montecorvo, Stanislaus Acri, his wife Daria Olivo and their child Pier Emilio, just six months old, lost their lives. Stanislaus, a young lawyer and economist, was a 5 Star Movimento activist. Loyal, competent, prepared, tireless. He was a candidate for the administration of his city Rossano Calabro in 2015. Daria, your wife, lawyer too, tender mother and sweet friend, even you of Movimento 5 Stars. The little Pier Emilio celebrated by friends and relatives last June 24 on the occasion of his baptism. Tragedy. They lost their lives because, like so many Calabrians, they had emigrated to health care outside the Region. In fact, they had gone to Rome for a medical visit to little Pier Emilio. Yes, because in Calabria - and you must know this - we also die due to the absence of health care, the absence of safe roads, the absence of transport. Now, dear Stanislaus, that wind of change that you have so much hoped for and for which you have worked so much is blowing also on your, our land of Calabria. And every small big milestone that we of the Movimento 5 Stars will be able to reach, will also bear your name. To the families Acri, Olivo, La Vigna, to the whole community of Corigliano-Rossano, the Movimento 5 Stars extends its deep condolences. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u126	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, we intervene every day because every day there is news on the case of the 49 million refunds conned by the League. It is a story that is enriched every day with elements and on which we never have elements. The quotation marks in the press that show excerpts of the reasons in the pronunciation do not leave much room for imagination [[Comments from the L-SP Group]] because there is talk of artifices and deceptions in false budgets, total chaos, deliberately organized and functional, camouflaging the vast majority of operations. In short, it seems clear to me that today, even if the League changed its name, for example from Lega-Salvini Premier to a more appropriate Lega-Salvini Vice Premier, even in this case finance would be allowed to come to requisition the funds of the new Lega-Salvini Vice Premier party. This is already happening all over Italy: 16,000 euros have been required at the Tuscan League and we will go ahead with this step. I think we need some clarification at this point. We are repeating this: there will probably be additional elements tomorrow and we will still ask for clarity on this. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations. Comments from the L-SP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u129	Mr Giacobbe (PD). Mr President, I too, unfortunately, must report to you this evening a sad news: following a long battle against a serious illness, Sam Mugavero disappeared last Tuesday. Who was Sam Mugavero? Sam was a simple Italian worker forced to leave his native country in search of a better future first in France and then in Australia. An Italian who, with altruism and sense of community service, has written a very important page in the history of Italians in Australia and in particular in Sydney, where he has lived since 1963. Born in Agira, after elementary school he moved to Catania, where he studied music and obtained a professional certificate of electrician and a diploma of art in mosaic. He immediately began his volunteer work, working as a free assistant at an orphanage and teaching free music lessons. Then he went to France where he worked as a restorer of works of art and mosaics. In 1963 he moved to Australia where he married Maria Lo Iacono. He had two daughters and five grandchildren. In Sydney he continued the construction of mosaics and started a workshop of art and craftsmanship. He also worked as an insurance agent and photographer, but of course he immediately devoted himself to voluntary work. He was elected president of the association Trinacria for ten years; he founded the association Agira where he held the office of president for five years; he was appointed delegate of the association Sicily world for over twenty years. From one of his ideas we founded the Coordination of Sicilian associations of the New South Wales, where until the end he held the role of vice coordinator, animator, motivator and factotum. Always engaged in the promotion of Italian language and culture, Sam coordinated and carried out seven international literary competitions, in Italian and English, and personally took care of the realization and publication of the anthologies of the works presented in competition. Sam has always been the inspirer, the performer, the soul of activities. One of his greatest achievements is "Il Figodindia" (The Ficodindia), an eight-page newspaper where news, curiosity, reports on the activities of Sicilians in Australia and Italy are published; six editions a year and read all over the world. To the last, despite the serious illness, he worked in the next editions. When he was diagnosed with the serious illness, Sam told me: "I've come to the end, I put my body at the disposal of others. Who knows, maybe from the results of this experimental therapy someone will be able to benefit. His commitment allowed him to receive several awards: the medal of Co.As.lt. of Sydney, the honor of Knight of the Order of Merit of the Star and the medal of the Order of Merit of Australia. On each of the occasions when he was given these honors, however, he told me that the most beautiful recognition for him was the affection of his wife, daughters, genders, grandchildren and friends, as well as the hope of having done something for others. My thoughts today go to the wife Mary and her family, to whom I extend my deep condolences. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u132	ROMAGNOLI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I asked to speak because something special happened yesterday: during a session of the Regional Council of the Marches, President Ceriscioli announced the possibility of closing the birthplace of the Fabriano hospital. I would therefore like to communicate to you the data of this umpteenth bad political management of the Region, and therefore of the health problems that then are reflected a bit throughout the nation. There has been full collaboration between the mayor of Fabriano Gabriele Santarelli, our regional advisors and personal services advisors, who immediately activated themselves, in collaboration with the hospital. This collaboration resulted in very detailed information concerning the closure of this birth point: for example, it has emerged that the births are 631 instead of the 500 foreseen by the Committee National birth path for our Region as a threshold for the closure of a birth point. I repeat, the births are 631, but 53 percent of the people who decide to deliver their children to Fabriano go outside. Why does this happen? Because, in fact, politics has been cleaning up public health for years in favour of private health, in order to reduce an excellent service. Our service and expertise in the hospital of Fabriano, as in many other hospitals, are excellent; despite this, we reduce them to the bone forcing people to leave these structures, thus impoverishing them. All this in order to then be able to say: "Look how good we are, we make private health available to deal with the problems that I, President of the Marche Region, have created, like other Presidents." We denounce this because what is happening is a very serious situation. I received an Assomed document comparing the situation in France, Germany and Italy, which are similar not from the morphological point of view (the problems that Italy has from the morphological-territorial point of view were born). Compared to a similar population (60 million in France, 82 million in Germany and 59 million in Italy), in France 10 of GDP is used for health care; 11.11 percent in Germany and 7.5 in Italy (decreasing). There are 3,055 hospitals in France, 3,600 hospitals in Germany and 1,307 in Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u134	I will make an exception, but I ask the senators to announce in advance their speeches at the end of the sitting. They cannot be allowed to cherry: one pull the other.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u136	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, thank you for this exception, but I did not know about the previous speaker. After listening to him, I asked her to intervene because the issue of the birth point of the Fabriano hospital is absolutely not in the terms in which it was exposed by the Senator of the Movimento 5 Stars. Both the President of the Marche Region and the Regional Council are working to keep this birth point open so important. A derogation has been requested from the Ministry of Health, but the Ministry of Health does not grant the derogation. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Minister Grillo must give this derogation in order to keep this birth point open. Therefore, the reconstruction that has been done is absolutely spanned in the air. In fact, today the President of the Marche Region has repeated to the Minister of Health Grillo... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Senator Romagnoli points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u137	Your time is up. I would point out that the end-of-session speeches do not allow one senator to answer the other. I was wrong to make an exception.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u138	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-23.ana.u139	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 19 July, at 10 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.01 p.m.
