ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 12.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. The Minutes of the sitting of 30 May were read to the House by Mr Carossino, Secretary. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: Mr President, I inform you that the President of the Republic, with his decrees dated 31 May 2018, accepted the resignation resigned on 24 March 2018 by the Cabinet chaired by Mr Paolo Gentiloni Silveri, as well as the resignation from their respective offices resigned by the Subsecretaries of State. Having accepted the mandate to form the Government conferred on me on 31 May 2018, the President of the Republic appointed me, by his own decree on 31 May 2018, President of the Council of Ministers. By further decree of the same date, the President of the Republic, on my proposal, appointed Mr Riccardo FRACCARO, Senator attorney Giulia BONGIORNO, Senator attorney Erika STEFANI, Senator Barbara LEZZI, Mr Lorenzo FONTANA, Professor Paolo SAVONA, Ministers without portfolio. Ministers were also appointed: - of foreign affairs and international cooperation, Professor Enzo MOAVERO MILANESI; - of the interior, Senator Matteo SALVINI; - of justice, Mr Alfonso BONAFEDE; - of defence, Dr Elizabeth TRENTA; - of economics and finances, Professor Giovanni TRIA; - of economic and labour development and social policies, Mr Luigi DI MAIO; - of agricultural food and forestry policies, Senator Gian Marco CENTINAIO; - of the environment and of the protection of the territory and the sea, General Sergio COSTA; - of infrastructure and transport, Senator Danilo TONNELLI; - of education, university and research, Dr Marco BUSSETTI; - of cultural and tourism goods and activities, Dr Alberto BONISOLI; - of health, Dr Giulia GRILLO. Moreover, the President of the Republic, with his own decrees on 1 June 2018, adopted on my proposal and after consulting the Council of Ministers, assigned to the Minister of Interior, Senator Matteo SALVINI, and to the Minister of Economic Development and Labour and Social Policies, Mr Luigi DI MAIO, the functions of Vice-President of the Council of Ministers and appointed Mr Giancarlo GIORGETTI State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, acting as Secretary of the Council of Ministers. Finally, by my decree on the same date, after consulting the Council of Ministers, I gave the Ministers without portfolio, pursuant to Article 9 of Law No 400 of 23 August 1988, the following tasks: to Mr Riccardo FRACCARO the relations with Parliament and direct democracy; to the senator lawyer Giulia BONGORO the public administration; to the senator lawyer Erika STEFANI the regional affairs and the autonomous ones; to Senator Barbara LEZZI the South; to Mr Lorenzo FONTANA the family and the disabilities; to Professor Paolo SAVONA the European affairs. F.to Giuseppe Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders, which met yesterday, defined the organisation of the debate on trust in the Government. After the statement by the President of the Council of Ministers, the sitting will be suspended to allow the text of the programme statements to be handed over to the House of Deputies. At 2.30 p.m. the debate will begin, for which three hours have been allocated to the Groups. The President of the Council of Ministers' reply and the final explanations of vote will take place from 5.30 p.m. Then the roll call for the vote of confidence will follow, orientarily at 7.15 p.m. For the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers, the reply and explanations of vote of the representatives of the Groups are provided for direct television broadcasting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u5	The next item is the statement by the President of the Council of Ministers and subsequent debate. I'm sensing that the broadcast is being broadcast with RAI. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by greeting the President of the Republic, who represents national unity and has accompanied the first difficult stages of the formation of this Government. As I enter this House for the first time and speak to you today, I feel a heavy responsibility for what this place represents. It preserves the memory of many significant passages in our institutional history. But the best way we have today to honor this noble tradition is to offer concrete answers to the needs of citizens. The growing disaffection towards the institutions, the progressive loss of prestige of those who have the honour to hold positions within them must push all of us to a supplement of responsibility, which necessarily passes through a greater openness to the real demands that come from those who live outside these Palaces. The role and authority of the Government and Parliament cannot be based solely on the very high tasks assigned to them by our fundamental Charter. They must be conquered day after day, working with discipline and honor, putting aside personal conveniences and demonstrating that they deserve such heavy responsibilities. With this spirit and this awareness today we present ourselves to you to ask for confidence, in favor not only of a government team, but also of a project: a project for the change of Italy; a project that has been formalized in the form of a contract by the two political forces that form the parliamentary majority; composed from the electoral programs presented at the elections and voted by the majority of Italians, as well as further legitimized by the votes to which the two political forces have called their respective members and supporters. The government programme, whose content has also been shared by those who speak to you, even in a discreet form, since the stage of its elaboration, is therefore strong of a dual legitimacy, formal and substantial. The objectives that the Government team promises to achieve are entrusted to the written page, because the political forces that make up the majority have declared them transparently, binding themselves to take all the initiatives and measures necessary to pursue them. Only once the contents of the contract have been developed, both political forces, following the vicissitudes we know well, have decided by common agreement to propose to the Head of State my name to take over the government. I am grateful to those who, by giving up legitimate personal ambitions, have been able to put before all the general interest, for a project that surpasses the people called to carry it forward and which makes me feel even more strongly - if you will allow me - the responsibility that I have assumed, well aware of the prerogatives that Article 95 of the Constitution recognizes and attributes to the President of the Council of Ministers. As you know, I have no previous political experience. I am a citizen who, by virtue of his study and professional experience, has declared himself available, during the election campaign, to assume any responsibility of Government with one of the two political forces and then to accept the task of forming and directing the Government, also making himself guarantor of the implementation of the contract for the Government of Change. I take on this task with humility but also with determination, with the awareness of my limitations but also with the passion and self-denial of those who understand the weight of the very high responsibilities entrusted to them. I am moved by nothing but a spirit of service. I am deeply honoured to be able to offer my commitment and expertise to defend the interests of the citizens of this wonderful country. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups and Senator Buccarella.]] As I have already had the opportunity to anticipate, I propose to you and, through you, to the citizens as the lawyer who will protect the interest of the entire Italian people. Someone has considered these novelties in terms of clear cesura with the institutional practices that so far have accompanied republican history: almost an attack on the unwritten conventions that have characterized the ordinary institutional path of our country. It's all true. I will say more: I do not think this is a simple novelty. The truth is that we have made a radical change of which we are proud. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and Mixed Groups.]] Compared to practices that provided for assessments exchanged in the closed of conciliations between political leaders mostly focused on the division of personal roles and very little on the content of the program, we inaugurate a new season, not hiding the difficulties and reciprocal renunciations in the sign of transparency and clarity towards the voters. Presenting itself today in the sign of change is therefore not a rhetorical or propaganda expression, but a choice based on the need to open up to the new wind that has been blowing for some time in the country and that has produced, at the outcome of the political elections last March 4, a geography of political consensus completely new. There are no longer political forces that express as once total visions of the world, which inspire their action - that is to say - on the basis of perfectly identifiable ideological systems. The sunset of strong ideologies dates back decades ago and is demonstrated by the fact that the last governments have promoted political initiatives of difficult location, according to the most traditional political categories. The contract placed at the foundation of our Government has been judged - depending on the points of view - right and left. We respect those who wanted to express these assessments, but we can only point out their inadequacy, the inability to understand the deep needs that come from the country. Personally, I think it is more beneficial to distinguish political orientations on the basis of the intensity of the recognition of the fundamental rights and freedoms of the person. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and Mixed Groups]] It is true that we want to demand new evaluation criteria for government action. Pragmatically we assume the responsibility to say that, here and now, there are advantageous or disadvantageous policies for citizens and for our country; policies that manage to ensure the well-being and a better quality of life of citizens and policies that, on the contrary, compromise these objectives. Political forces integrating the majority of government have been accused of being populist, anti-system. Well, they are linguistic formulas that everyone is free to decline. If populism is the attitude of the ruling class to listen to the needs of the people - and here I draw inspiration from Dostoevsky's reflections, in the pages of the "Discourse on Puškin" - if antisystem means aiming to introduce a new system that removes old privileges and encrustations of power, well, these political forces deserve both these qualifications. [[Live and sustained applause from the M5S, L-SP, FdI and Mixed Groups]] To want to read carefully the government contract, it emerges that the attention to the needs of citizens is carried out in the high sign of politics with the capital "P" with the objective of giving concrete implementation to the fundamental values of our Constitution. [[Applause from Senator Buccarella.]] In addition to more immediate measures, there are also major structural reforms in the contract. If we want to return to government action a wider horizon of meaning, we must show ourselves capable of raising our eyes, striving to pursue the real needs of citizens in a medium to long-term perspective. Otherwise, politics loses sight of the principle of responsibility that requires action - the philosopher Jonas recommended it - not only by looking at the immediate need, which risks turning into mere profit, but also by designing the society that we want to leave to our children, to our grandchildren. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups and Senator Merlo]] The change will not only be in words and style, but also and above all in method, in content. From the methodological point of view, our initiative will be articulated on three fronts: listening, because first of all the needs of the citizens come, and in this, of course, Parliament will also help us and the new instruments of direct democracy that the contract proposes to introduce; execution, because we want to be pragmatic: if a rule, an institution or an institution does not work it is right to abolish them; If they work, it is right to upgrade them; if they fail, it is right to create them. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] There is also control: the measures that we will adopt have objectives that must be achieved; we will be the first to monitor, with severity and rigour, their effectiveness, taking immediate action with the necessary corrections. Listening, execution and control will be the three pillars of government action in the sign of full transparency. Change in content. The change - as I said - will also be in the content. It changes - for example - the fact that the government's first concern will be the social rights that have been progressively dismantled over the last few years. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and Mixed Groups),]] with the results we know: millions of poor, millions of unemployed, millions of suffering. It is time to say that Italian citizens are entitled to a minimum hourly wage so that no one is exploited anymore; they are entitled to a citizenship income and a return to work if they find themselves unemployed; they are entitled to a decent pension; they are entitled to a simple fair tax. There is again that the public debt we want to reduce it, but we want to do so with the growth of our wealth, not with austerity measures, which have helped to make it rise in recent years. Change is in fast and efficient justice and on the citizens' side, with new tools such as class action, fair compensation for victims of violent crime [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups and Senator Merlo]] , strengthening self-defense [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP, FdI and Mixed Groups.]] It turns out we're gonna put an end to the immigration business. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP, FdI and Mixed Groups.]] We will put an end to the immigration business, which has grown out of proportion under the cloak of fake solidarity. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP, FdI and Mixed Groups.]] It changes that we will fight corruption with innovative methods such as the Daspus to the corrupt and with the introduction of the undercover agent. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and Mixed Groups.]] It changes that we want a country to the size of people with disabilities - and millions - who too often find themselves abandoned to themselves and their families. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and Mixed Groups]] It changes that we want to break the link between politics and health, to make the latter finally efficient throughout the national territory. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and Mixed Groups.]] It changes that we will increase funds, means and equipment to ensure security in every city. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups and Senator Merlo. Senator Cirinna's comments.]] It changes that we will pay proper attention to families, especially those in distress. I referred only to certain parts of the contract but, even if we only realized the innovations that I have just indicated, citizens would immediately perceive that the new wind did not blow in vain. They would perceive that the wind of change is blowing everywhere, in large cities and small municipalities; they would perceive that their quality of life has improved and they would feel even more united and proud to live in this beautiful country of ours. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and Mixed Groups.]] That is ultimately our goal. I will not dwell in detail on all the individual objectives which we have set at the basis of this government action and which are indicated in the contract. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Below, however, I will summarize some indications on some more relevant issues and I will also anticipate in which direction my personal and more specific contribution will be explained. On the subject of work, in this time of crisis and difficulty, we are committed to giving substance to the prediction contained in the first article of our Constitution, which founds the Republic at work. We want to build a new social pact, transparent and fair, based on solidarity, but also on commitment, aware that only with the participation of all in the development of the country can we guarantee a future of prosperity also to our children. We want to give voice to the many young people who do not find a job, to those who are forced to move abroad and to those who remain inactive here, who lock themselves up and are saddened. In one case as in the other, we end up dissipating valuable state resources. We want to give voice to the many women, often more educated and more tenacious than we men. [[Comments of Senator Malpezzi]] , which in the workplace are still unacceptably discriminated against and less paid ( [[Comments from the PD Group]] and that they feel lonely when they decide to bring a child into the world. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and FdI Groups and Senator Merlo]] The spread of new technologies and the sharing economy creates new business opportunities and makes innovative services available to citizens, but also opens up risks of marginalisation and new forms of exploitation. We must take charge of these changes not in order to combat development in many ways irreversible, but in order to ensure, in any case, respect for the essential rights of workers and to ensure that work is always an instrument of personal and human achievement. With regard to the environment, government action will be constantly focused on the protection of the environment, the hydrogeological safety of our territory and the development of the circular economy. With our political choices we will work to anticipate the processes - already in place - of decarbonisation of our production system. We do not want to passively witness the evolution of the reality around us, perhaps in accordance with the particular interests of individual economic actors. We are committed to governing these processes open to technological innovation in the sign of development at the service of man. We want to demand, in this area too, a high role for politics, which is capable of guiding and governing the changes in social, economic and cultural reality. We are not willing to sacrifice the environment and the design of a blue economy for other purposes. We must immediately measure ourselves with the dilemmas of artificial intelligence and use big data to seize all the opportunities of sharing economy. As far as international scenarios, markets and security are concerned, we want to confirm our country's strong membership of the Atlantic Alliance with the United States of America as a privileged, traditionally privileged ally. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and Mixed Groups.]] But be careful! We will be in favour of an opening to Russia. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and Mixed Groups.]] A Russia that has consolidated, in recent years, its international role in various geopolitical crises. We will promote a review of the sanctions system, starting with those that risk mortifying Russian civil society. As is well known, the processes of market integration that have taken place in recent years have made a complete redefinition of the relations and boundaries between politics, economy and law. In the new global space the economy (or, better still, finance) has gained a position of absolute prominence. It has become, as James Hillman observed, the true universal religion of our time. Politics, but also law, have lost ground. We have difficulties. We all have difficulties in pursuing strong and coherent political actions as well as in achieving effective and harmonious legal disciplines. In particular, politics is struggling to govern such complex and integrated social and economic processes. But the answer is not to deny the difficulties. We need to find a way to strengthen, even within supranational structures, the processes of democratic legitimacy by strengthening the institutions representative of the will of the peoples. With regard to Europe, the elimination of the growth gap between Italy and the European Union is our goal, which must be pursued in a framework of financial stability and market confidence. Italian public debt is now fully sustainable. However, its reduction must be pursued, also, and above all, with a view to economic growth. Fiscal policy on public expenditure should be geared towards achieving the objectives of stable and sustainable growth. In Europe these issues will be strongly brought, in order to adapt its governance, an adjustment already at the heart of the reflection and discussion of all the Member States of the Union. We are moderately optimistic about the outcome of these reflections and confident of our negotiating power, because we are faced with a situation in which Italy's interests at this stage of European integration coincide with the general interests of Europe and with the objective of preventing its eventual decline. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] Europe is our home; it is our home. As a founding country, we are fully entitled to claim a stronger and even fairer Europe, in which economic and monetary union is oriented towards protecting the needs of citizens in order to balance more effectively the principles of responsibility and solidarity. With regard to the privileges of politics, in the years ahead we have seen the reduction of public investment and the reduction of fundamental services. However, the privileges of politics and its waste have remained intact. This government intends to act decisively. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] The fight against the privileges of politics and waste is not merely a symbolic issue. If ordinary citizens face every day a thousand difficulties and humiliations because they do not have a job, they have a pension below the threshold of dignity, they work earning a cheap wage, it is not acceptable that the political class does not draw the necessary consequences for its economic treatment. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] This is a matter that must be of concern to everyone, because, otherwise, the citizens' confidence pact with their institutions is broken. There must be a cut in the pensions and livelihoods of Members of Parliament, regional councillors and employees of constitutional bodies, and the social security system of normal pensioners must also be introduced for them. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] The so-called gold pensions are another example of unjustified privilege that must be countered. We will intervene on cheques exceeding 5,000 euros net monthly, in the part not covered by contributions paid. We will save money at all possible locations and I am convinced that we will cut out large margins of intervention and achieve significant results. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] Let me turn to the matter of justice. In this context, our objective is to rebuild the public's trust in the justice system. There has recently been a decline in judicial protection initiatives. In fact, the demand for justice has not failed, as - rather - trials cost too much and last too long. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] This applies to citizens and businesses, with the result that the lack of efficiency in the justice service is proving to be a limit to economic growth and a deterrent to foreign investors. In the contemporary economy, as sociologist Ulrich Beck recalls, the real danger is the threat of non-invasion by investors, or their departure. In the Government contract some precise objectives are indicated: the simplification and reduction of the processes, the reduction of the costs of access to justice, the strengthening of the guarantees of protection of the rights and interests of the citizens. We will tighten the penalties for the crime of sexual violence, as well as fair compensation for the victims. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups and Senator Garnero Santanchè]] We will ensure the certainty of the penalty in order to prevent honest citizens from losing confidence in justice. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP, FdI and government benches.]] If necessary, we will increase the number of penitentiary institutions, also in order to ensure better conditions for the persons in custody, without prejudice to the constitutionally envisaged rehabilitation function for the sentence, which requires the identification of appropriate training and work paths. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] We'll also review the prescription. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] The prescription must be returned to its original function, it must not be reduced to mere gimmick to avoid the right process. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] Contrast of corruption and criminal powers. We will strengthen strategies to combat corruption and criminal powers. We will oppose the corruption that creeps into all the interstices of public activities, alters the level playing field among entrepreneurs, degrades the prestige of public functions. We will increase the penalties for crimes against public administration with the introduction of the Daspus for the corrupt and corrupt. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] We will strengthen the action of undercover agents in line with the Merida Convention. More protection will be given to those who from their workplace will denounce criminal behaviour within their offices. We'll fight the mafias with every means, attacking their finances, their economies. [[Live and sustained applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups, whose members stand up. Members of the M5S Group sing the choir: "Out of the Mafia from the State"]] BELLANOVA (PD). Is that how it's done? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, I don't think so. , President of the Council of Ministers. We will fight the mafias by all means, attacking their finances, their economies and hitting the networks of relationships that allow criminal organisations to become pervasive within the socio-economic fabric. As far as the conflict of interest is concerned, it is a tarlo which undermines our economic and social system from its roots and prevents its development from taking place in accordance with the rules of free competition and legality. Individuals who are institutionally invested with the objective of pursuing collective interests and who should follow their initiatives to an impartial logic, are in fact often surprised to pursue their own personal gain. [[Senator Bernini's comments.]] We will strengthen the current legislation so as to extend the hypothesis of conflict until you understand any usefulness, even indirect, that people... [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] FARAONE (PD). Tell that to Casaleggio! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please don't interrupt. Mr Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. We will strengthen the current legislation in order to extend the hypothesis of conflict to include any usefulness, even indirect, that people can derive from their own position or initiative. In addition, guarantees and safeguards should be strengthened to prevent the emergence of potential conflicts of interest. In terms of income and pension of citizenship, in Italy as well as in other countries, inequalities have become worse and poverty has multiplied. Those living in conditions of socio-economic distress are not allowed to fully develop their personality and to participate effectively in the political, economic and social organization of our country, in accordance with Article 3, paragraph 2 of the Constitution. The Government's objective is to ensure income support for families most affected by socio-economic distress. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] The benefit will be commensurate with the composition of the household and will be dependent on vocational training and re-employment. We propose, in a first phase, to strengthen the employment centres in order to encourage the encounter between demand and supply of work with the greatest possible efficiency and speed. In the second phase, real economic support will then be provided. We will also take care to help pensioners who do not have enough income to live decently by introducing a citizenship pension. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] Immigration: a first test of the new way of dialogue with European partners is certainly the discipline of immigration. It is clear to all that the management of the migratory flows implemented so far has been a failure. Europe has allowed - and we must say this forcefully - selfish closures of many Member States that have ended up dumping on border states - and first of all on our country - the burdens and difficulties that should have been shared. That is why we will strongly demand that the Dublin Regulation be exceeded in order to achieve effective compliance with the principle of fair sharing of responsibilities and to implement automatic systems for the compulsory relocation of asylum seekers. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and FdI Groups]] Since the first positive conversation I had with Chancellor Merkel I have emphasized the importance of this topic and the subsequent statements made by the same during the last weekend show how the awareness is being affirmed that Italy cannot be left alone in the face of these challenges. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] We are not and will never be racist. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP, Senator Buccarella and government benches]] We want procedures aimed at establishing refugee status to be safe and fast, also in order to guarantee their rights more effectively and not to leave them in uncertainty. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and government benches]] We defend and defend immigrants who arrive regularly on our territory, work, join our communities, respecting their laws and, indeed, offering a contribution that we consider decisive to the development of the country. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] But in order to ensure the indispensable integration we must not only fight with severe determination the most hateful forms of exploitation linked to the trafficking of human beings, perpetrated by unscrupulous scaphists. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] We must also reorganise and make the reception system efficient, ensuring transparency on the use of public funds and eliminating all forms of infiltration of organised crime. [[Live and sustained applause from the M5S, L-SP and FdI groups and from the government benches.]] If the legal conditions for their stay are not met, we will endeavour to make return procedures effective and to ensure that all third countries wishing to enter into cooperation agreements with a Member State of the Union enter into bilateral agreements on the management of migratory flows in Europe. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP, FdI and Senator Garnero Santanchè groups.]] We're not insensitive at all. A reflection deserves this tragic story, which took days ago: Sacko Soumaila was killed with a shotgun. It was one of the thousand workers, with a regular residence permit, who every day in this country go to work under conditions that are below the threshold of dignity. To him and his family we all owe, if you will allow me, a moving thought. [[Live and general applause. The Assembly and the members of the Government stand.]] But that is not enough: politics must take on the drama of these people and guarantee legal paths, which constitute the polar star of this government program. As far as tax reform is concerned, he notes that our tax system is dated, has been formulated many years ago and no longer reflects the current socio-economic reality. It is paradoxical: large companies operating in transnational space manage to hide their wealth in tax havens, while small companies and small taxpayers remain crushed by a high tax burden. Kotler is right: it is necessary to rethink capitalism. In the meantime, however, we intend to introduce revolutionary measures leading to a complete revision of the tax system of incomes, individuals and businesses. Our tax pressure, combined with an excess of bureaucracy, in fact, has a negative effect on the quality of the tax relationship between the State and taxpayers, as well as on the competitiveness of our country. The objective is flat tax, i.e. a tax reform characterized by the introduction of fixed rates, with a system of deductions that can guarantee, however, the progressiveness of the tax in accordance with the constitutional principles. Only in this way will it be possible to achieve a drastic reduction in tax avoidance and evasion - we have not succeeded for years - with consequent benefits in terms of greater tax savings, greater propensity to consumption and investment and greater tax base. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP, FdI and government benches.]] This is an opportunity to re-establish the relationship between the State and taxpayers in the spirit of good faith and mutual cooperation between the parties. I like to reason about financial alliance, exemplifying the therapeutic alliance that we have developed in the relationships between doctor and patient. But a concept must be made clear here: the current administrative and criminal sanctions framework must necessarily be tightened up in order to secure the real prison for the great evaders. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and FdI Groups]] In the field of scientific research we are proud that in the coming days eleven young people between Italian researchers and researchers - think - will be awarded, some for the second time, with the prestigious recognition that identifies them among the best in the world for the work carried out in cancer research. It is regrettable, however, that many of them, like many colleagues who are globally honored in the various fields of scientific research, have been forced to leave our country in order to operate in foreign universities and research centres. Our schools, our universities are able to form excellences, absolute excellences in all sectors, although unfortunately we are not able to keep them and hold them in our country and this is a serious cultural deficit, as well as economic deficit. We want to reverse the course, we have to do it, we have to put it all, offering to the best of our researchers, and also to the foreign ones, concrete possibilities to continue their activities in our country, forming other scientists and moving together the fruit of their work in our economic and productive fabric, not in the fabric of others. Only through the development of the most advanced and innovative activities can we maintain in Italy - and on this there is a serious risk that we run - the production chains that today constitute the backbone on which our wealth is founded, giving a future of development and growth to our children and grandchildren. As for health, the document of economy and finance - I think it is well known to you - which has already been resolved, provides for a reduction in health spending. It will be up to this Government to reverse this trend in order to ensure the necessary fairness in access to care. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP, FdI and Misto-MAIE Groups. Comments of Senators Pharaoh and Patriarch]] Socio-economic differences cannot and must not be discriminatory in terms of health protection for our citizens. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and FdI Groups]] BONFRISCO (L-SP). Bravo! Mr Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. We will pursue greater efficiency in the provision of services, both in terms of volume, quality and results of care, and in relation to the management of accounts. The Government will work, in agreement with the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, to implement more efficient organizational models, able to guarantee a correct take charge of patients, promoting the promotion and prevention of health, through the integration of social and health services, as well as the enhancement of the medicine of the territory. We want to achieve a reduction in waiting list time. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] Dear Senators, dear Senators, we want the apical appointments of managerial structures in the health world to take place, as is normal, on the basis of criteria exclusively meritorious and strictly protected from undue political influences. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and government benches.]] In terms of the Internet, tomorrow's society will increasingly be characterized by info-telematic networks, the Internet, an infinite public space that facilitates production, access to knowledge, creates opportunities and innovation, reduces the distance between citizens and the places of democracy, increases the transparency of decision-making processes. However, we are aware - and we must all be aware of this - that the direction towards which this technological progress develops is not neutral. We must ensure that the direction of development is fully compatible with the protection of the fundamental rights of the person and with the needs of the community. This is a crucial challenge. We need to strengthen some legal and institutional guarantees, so that digital citizenship can be definitively affirmed. Access to the Internet must be granted to all citizens, as a fundamental right and a precondition for the effective exercise of democratic rights, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution. A high level of protection of personal data needs to be ensured, as there is a virtuous circle between rights protection, network use, social inclusion and economic growth. Subsidiarity and third sector. Government action will also be sensitive to the principle of subsidiarity, which requires limiting the action of the public authorities when the initiative of individuals, individuals or organised in associative structures, can be more efficient. We are aware - and we must all be aware of this - that the third sector and all the bodies that crowd it offer models of sustainable development and help to create a solidarity circuit that favours fragile and needy people. Non-profit initiatives often fit into the spaces of our society where suffering is most intense, help to reduce inequalities, strengthen social cohesion, help to draw a better future. We intend to put in place all the measures, including corrective measures, that will allow the full implementation of an effective reform of the third sector, which will also be effective in terms of tax spillovers. [[Senator Pharaoh's comments. Call the president back.]] I would like to mention here, in particular, the contribution to improving the quality of life offered by sports practice and ensured by volunteering through thousands of small amateur sports associations. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and government benches.]] This is a dimension of sport that we particularly like and want to enhance. Enterprise and development. We are aware that the revival of our economy passes through the spirit of initiative, the qualities of many small entrepreneurs, professionals, traders, artisans, who, through a thousand difficulties, keep high the tradition of commitment and hard work that constitutes one of the most authentic characteristics of our productive fabric. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and government benches.]] We propose to create a favourable environment for them, so that public administration is not an opponent from whom to defend itself, but an ally with which to cooperate. We will act in such a way as to favour companies that innovate, hire new staff, who respect the rules of free competition. We intend to promote companies which adopt socially responsible practices, which take their economic initiatives into account in the precautionary principle, in order to prevent the negative impact of their actions on the environment and to ensure an appropriate environment to protect the rights of their workers. We will promote a discipline that completely revises the traditional bankruptcy law in the sign of a broader and more organic approach, that abandons the logic merely sanctioning [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and government benches]] and tackle the much broader phenomenon of the so-called business crisis in a broad and articulated way. In the field of dialogue with the social partners, this Government aims to re-establish, in new and more effective forms, the social dialogue with the various associations representing workers and businesses. We will have to redefine, on the basis of objective criteria, the principle of representativeness, which is in decline, in an absolutely transparent way. By this way, we will obtain that everyone is invited, each based on their own sensibilities and competences, to give a new impetus to their initiatives, in the awareness that their commitment and their proposals, if inspired by the general interest of the country and of the various communities, even local ones, will be appreciated and taken into consideration. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and government benches]] All the many positive energies of our country must be restored in a choral way, restoring vitality to the industry, especially exporting, to the fabric of countless small and medium-sized enterprises in the field of trade, services and crafts, to genuine cooperatives, to the agricultural world, to its chains that promote Made in Italy in the world, to transparent banks at the service of the real economy. I'm starting to simplify the final lines for a moment. However, we will be very careful - in advance - to the issue of simplification, deburocratization and digitisation. A single mention here, which we summarize: we must give back momentum to public procurement, which are and can become a fundamental lever of the country's economic policy. In recent years there has been a total stasis, largely determined also by the interpretative uncertainties and certain rigidities, unfortunately also linked to the new code of public contracts. We want legality, but we must overcome the formalism end in itself that still dominates this discipline, because the form cannot be mistaken for legality. All too often - anyone who has experience of it knows - formally perfect races hide corruption and do not prevent bad execution. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP, Mixed Groups and government benches]] We must ensure strict compliance with the delivery times of the works, but also the quality of the works and supplies and the efficiency of the services. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] The Government will also pay due attention to the legitimate demands that will come from elected parliamentarians abroad. We have already begun to meditate on the criticalities of a voting system and on the need to introduce appropriate measures to prevent the risk that voting abroad will be accompanied by fraud. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and Mixed Groups.]] We will strive to safeguard the regions with special autonomy of the North and South of the country in the belief that proximity, subsidiarity and responsibility, where concentrated locally, can contribute to improving the quality of life of our citizens. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP, FdI and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV).]] I am going to conclude, but allow me to dedicate the last few lines to Parliament and also to the groups that are going to put themselves in opposition. I would like to address a specific point to the parliamentary groups that will place themselves in the opposition. This Government is not an expression of your feelings but it also opens up to your assessments, respecting your roles. If you confirm that you do not support this initiative of government, however, I ask you to exercise your prerogatives of opposition in a constructive and loyal way. [[Comments from PD and FI-BP Groups.]] Institutions are not the patrimony of a single political force. They are the home of all Italians and mark the quality of our legal system and our civil life. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] A firm but loyal and constructive opposition is also the hall of political dialectic and serves for the proper functioning of the parliamentary institution and the entire democratic system. ROMANI (FI-BP). Ask the Five Star Movement how he did it. Mr Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. Even in order to honour the centrality of Parliament, I would like to remind you right now that it is my intention to use the immediately answered Question Office in accordance with the statutory provisions of the House and the Senate. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). Bravo! Mr Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. By this way, we will be able to constantly confront each other and, through your mediation, I will be allowed to speak with the citizens you represent. The presence of the Government in the Houses and in the Parliamentary Commissions will also be assured with force by all the Ministers who, according to their respective competences, will answer your questions. [[Living Comments from PD and FI-BP Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u7	The President of the Council is finishing. Let him finish. You will then have all the time to speak in the debate to express your views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u8	Mr Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. Personally, I am committed to respecting dissenting opinions and opposing assessments that will arise from these misunderstandings. [[Comments of Senator Marcucci]] and to convey within the Government the positions that will be useful to offer greater solidity and effectiveness to the initiatives of the Government. We will also be willing to evaluate, in the course of work, the contribution of parliamentary groups who want to share our path, and, if necessary, also adhere later to the Government contract, offering a more... [[Comments from the PD Group]] So we do not affirm the centrality of Parliament! [[Live and sustained applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups, whose members stand up, and Senator Merlo. Senator Verducci's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u9	Please let the President-in-Office finish. Please, sit down.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u10	Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. I was saying, if necessary, they will be able to join the Government contract later, also offering a more stable contribution to the realization of our program. A final thought - and I conclude - goes to the earthquake victims: my first public release in Italy will be dedicated to them. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] BONFRISCO (L-SP). Bravo! Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. I've come to the end of my speech. The people have spoken, they have asked for change. Now the word is up to you: your vote today will be part of the history of the country. Thank you all. [[Live and sustained applause from the M5S, L-SP and Mixed Groups, whose members stand together with government representatives. Applause and congratulations from the government benches.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u11	I thank the President of the Council of Ministers. In order to allow the President of the Council to go to the Chamber of Deputies and deliver the text of the programmatic declarations, the sitting will be suspended and resumed at 2.30 p.m. with the speeches under discussion on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers, according to the timing already defined by the Conference of the Leaders. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 11.25 p.m. and resumed at 2.35 p.m.) Let's resume our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u12	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, citizens who patiently listen to us, fellow senators, this government has already set a record. Of the eighteen governments at the beginning of the legislature, it is by far what took the most time to form. In 2008, three months after the elections, as we are today, the Berlusconi Government, among other things, had already solved the Naples waste emergency, abolished the tax on the first house and approved the measure to keep Alitalia in Italian hands. He didn't announce it. He did. But, at least, after the Monti, Letta, Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri Governments, the Italians expected a head of the government they knew, that he had introduced himself to them explaining what he would do at Palazzo Chigi and on which they had an idea. It was one of the innovations brought by Silvio Berlusconi in Italian politics. Here, instead, the President of the Council Giuseppe Conte, chosen by the mysterious summits of the 5 Star Movement on the basis of the curriculum. President Conte, however, had well debuted, saying that it is wrong to describe Italy as a country of corrupt, that there are episodes of corruption that must be fought, but that Italy is healthy. Very true, President, but all the propaganda of the 5 Star Movement has always said the opposite. Everyone is corrupt: all except them, of course. In fact, already in his speech just now seems to prevail over the ideas of the Minister of Justice Bonafede, who had to let know that he wanted to give important roles to Piercamillo Davigo, known for having said that there are no innocent but only guilty ones not yet discovered and that, in practice, there are no judicial errors. If anything, the mistake is when someone is acquitted because - little detail - the evidence of his guilt has not emerged. In short, just the opposite of what the Constitution and the elementary norms of civilization say. It is not just a matter of individual principles and rights. Who would want to invest, create employment and work in a country where you are considered guilty until proven guilty and sometimes even after? Do we want to say that the very long time that we have in Italy to start a business, a public work and, therefore, to create work are often due to the fact that civil servants, who should sign the permits, fear for that signature to end up investigated, even if innocent, to years of judicial graticula? Graticola that you want to lengthen with the ulterior extension of the prescription times and with the abolition of the abbreviated rites. This is contained in your program. I mean, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the election campaign is over. It is okay to continue to say what has been said in the election campaign (in fact, it is right). But the point is that it is no longer the time of the rallies and the proclamations, but it is time to do. And as much as a nice rally requires commitment, it's much more difficult to govern, because for the expenses you promise you have to find money and because when you propose contradictory things to put them into action it's complicated. Because in the meetings, you talk about what you want, while when you're in government you're dealing with the reality that also poses you unwelcome problems. For example, we share Minister Salvini's intentions to combat illegal immigration effectively, but one of the first things to do would be to radically modify the law on unaccompanied minors, approved by the Democratic Party and the 5 Star Movement two years ago, which allows anyone who declares himself underage to enter Italy and have suffered all the prerogatives of an Italian citizen and, in addition, an expensive assistance with figures that Italian families with children dream of. We share the idea of relaunching the development of the economy, but how do we re-launch the economy by ignoring the South in the program, declaring the opposition to the high-speed train for the Turin-Lion route, without which Piedmont and Italy will be cut off from the great traffics and related investments? And how do you re-launch the economy by encouraging non-employment or undeclared work, through citizenship income? I share the defence of the family wanted by Minister Fontana, but what will the Government do to those mayors - beginning with those of Turin and Rome - who have invented children children of two mothers or two fathers, that is born with the uterus for rent, forbidden in Italy? It is a blatant false act in public, since nature is not updated according to ideological fashions. I could go on for a long time, but I will end by ensuring, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that we know very well what the rights of the opposition are and that those you have listed - the immediate answer to questions, the presence at work and listening - are the duties of the Government. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] It is disconcerting that you, who are a man of law, make them as kind concessions. We will support it if there are measures that we share and that are part of the center-right program, but we will use our opposition rights well and as representatives of the nation under the Constitution, and not concessions of the Government, on what harms the well-being or freedom of the Italians. May God bless Italy and protect it, if necessary, even from those who govern it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u13	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bagnai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u14	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Government to which we are preparing to vote is a formidable task. Few figures will be used to measure it. If we exclude the two world wars, both of which took ten years to restore previous income levels, the current one is the longest depression in the entire history of united Italy. According to the most recent forecasts of the International Monetary Fund, it will take sixteen years for Italy to return to the level of income before the crisis, that of 2007. Such exceptional circumstances require a reflection on the technical and political fallacy of rules-only governance. The Europeans have demonstrated their procyclical character, forcing us to further depress the level of economic activity when the country was already bent by a deep recession. This is also because our country is one of the few to have applied them pedissequamente, violating the rule of 3% in the only three years beginning of the crisis, against the 9 of France and the 6 of Spain, at the cost of a reduction of 38 percent of the flow of public investments. The rules are more and more like the alibi of an entire political class to escape those responsibilities that you have evoked. We are told that they serve to create a common playing field on which the economies of the Member States can compete correctly, but this approach is naive. Like any institution, the rules also express the relationships of force in place. In the case of the European Union, unfortunately, they sometimes become an instrument through which injustices and asymmetries can be crystallized. In this sense, it is the case of the Banking Union. The governments that today deny us solidarity, opposing the European insurance on bank deposits, argue that our system is too fragile for us to accept to mutualize its risk. However, those same governments - particularly the German government - in due course secured their systems with massive state aid, seriously violating competition. Their argument is that then it could be done, because the conditions were different. But at the very moment when it is stated that what was then worth to them now is not applicable to us, an important general principle is established: the rules are not a totem to bow to, but a tool to adapt to the circumstances. The circumstances of our country, so exceptional, require a proper interpretation of the same rules. An orderly European coexistence needs solidarity: the approach based on a rigid interpretation of often irrational rules, or perpetuating injustices, is in re ipsa incompatible with solidarity. The founding value of solidarity is also known to integerrimi Europeanists. I quote Guy Verhofstadt, who a few days ago asked us for our solidarity against what he perceived as an unfair trade attack on the part of the United States. The irrationality of rules that amplify not only internal imbalances, but also international ones also asks the account of countries that felt strong with the weak. And so it can happen that solidarity, suddenly, also serves those who have strenuously denied it. Such developments open to the work of your Government wide margins of negotiation that - we are sure - you will be able to exploit to give back momentum to our country, in the common interest of the European project, thanks to the competence and loyalty to the country of your government team. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u16	Mr President, in a parliamentary Republic, it is here in this House that the Government gains confidence. You are trusting a Prime Minister who has not been elected by the citizens. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] To a coalition that has not been chosen by the citizens and a government in which there are many technicians. Until a few months ago in this House the political forces of the present majority considered governments to be so abusive: they were not then, they are not even now. Now, as before, legitimacy comes from Parliament. We will not oppose it by questioning the legitimacy of this Government, not because the President of the Council tells us so, but because of respect for the institutions and citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you asked the opposition to cooperate, explaining what we have to do. There is no need and I inform you that what you have presented to us as your possible future concessions are our rights under the Rules of Procedure of this Parliamentary Assembly. [[Applause from the PD Group]] So, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we can assure you that we will oppose things. We'll do it by looking at the country's interest. We are parliamentarians - as Article 67 of the Constitution says - representing the country; we represent the nation and we are not, as you called us before, mediators between you and the citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We have listened to your programmatic statements and I must tell you that some of them are shared, others are a list of citizens' problems, others are good intentions on which it is difficult to disagree. How can one not agree when it comes to the certainty of punishment, work for all, fair wages, or the delivery of public works in the right times? How, though, is this achieved? With what resources? That's the point. President, we all think we work for the citizens, there is no moral superiority of yours. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Lonardo.]] You are not the only ones working or trying to work for the good of the citizens. We did it when we were in the government. We'll do it as an opposition. The point is that now you too will have to measure yourself with the complexity of things, the limited resources and the difficulty of choosing priorities; there is no trace of all this in his speech. You said to work to deliver children and grandchildren a better country. On the other hand, it seems to me that the contract on which you yourself said is based your government, serves to do something else, to guarantee electoral promises. I find no idea of the future when you think that you have to put great resources in order to reduce taxes on the rich. What is the future if we only deal with those who are to retire in the next ten years and there is no question of how to guarantee a pension to those who are young today? [[Applause from the PD Group]] What is the future if we place ourselves with those who want a Europe that goes back, that builds walls [[Applause from the PD Group]] and not that it changes so that it can be stronger, more representative of the citizens and fairer? No, look, the future of our children and grandchildren in your speech in this House today is not there. President, I appreciated your words and standing ovation when there was a statement of commitment against the mafias. However, I record that there is nothing beyond good intentions, neither in his speech, nor in the contract. I am pleased that the Government wants to apply the laws passed in the last legislature, starting with the new anti-mafia code, using all the possibilities it provides to strike in its economic and financial interests the mafias, hitting the mafias where it hurts them most: money. But from a government they expect clearer and more explicit signs to be addressed to the country than a simple declaration of principle. We must signal that the fight against the Mafia is a priority. You see, President, the day when the Pope made a very important choice, that is to carry out for the first time the procession of the corpus domains outside Rome, in Ostia, precisely to emphasize a strong priority commitment of the Church against the Mafia, that same day the Minister of the Interior was in Pozzallo and did not say a word against the Mafia. [[Applause from the PD Group]] He explained with great detail how he will return 500,000 immigrants, how he will free our streets, but he did not explain how he wants to be a reference point for the fight against the mob. That same day he was killed in San Ferdinando an immigrant, a trade unionist, who fought against the corporals and defended hundreds of people who shared his own condition of exploitation. Good grief, but I also expected assurances that everything will be done to shed light on what happened. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I expected a summit to coordinate the investigations, a clear commitment, an explicit will to enforce the law against the caporalate. These are signs, Mr President, and I have finished: they mark the difference between a duty of office, such as the duty of remembering a dead boy, and a real commitment against mafias and crime. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u17	Senator Siclari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I have listened very carefully to the programme presented by the new Government in this House. As a center-right man and as an Italian citizen before, I cannot fail to point out that in the program presented by you today there is no trace of the specific themes that concern the revival of the South of our country. There are emergencies that the Mezzogiorno is forced to live and do not see any response in your programmes, with particular reference to infrastructure, health and justice. In many regions of the South the sick do not have public garrisons and these are now reduced to bone, without personnel and equipment. Many departments have been closed and entire structures suppressed. In Calabria, in particular, there is a paradoxical situation: from now on, the affiliated structures in Calabria have been forced by Commissioner Scura and Governor Oliverio not to provide any more conventional services: this means that either you pay for exclusively private services or run away - and even to escape you need the economic possibilities - or you die. This is the health care and the right to health, enshrined in Article 32 of the Constitution, which we want to defend. In your programme there is no trace of infrastructure, major works for the South, high speed, the revival of airports in the South, commercial ports and marinas. You did not mention the port of Gioia Tauro, the largest port in southern Italy for freight traffic and the fifth port in Italy, which risks, for this political distraction, with the sufferings that today lives, to become a cathedral in the heart of the Mediterranean. How is it possible that you do not understand that the infrastructure and fast connections are the key to relaunching the South of Italy, creating a tourist network, developing that tourist potential, that famous vocation we fill our mouths every day and that it never really finds space in the programs, especially in what you have presented today? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I'm talking about that tourist network that can get the South to have that GDP that the whole country needs to get out of the crisis. Another point concerns the justice sector: we must also help this sector, which is burdened with a great deal of work and has little resources. Allow me, Mr President, to commend the Carabinieri, because today is the feast of the Carabinieri's weapon, and the law enforcement agencies, the magistrates, the investigators and all those who work on the territory and in the courts to ensure security and justice and who have been fighting against organised crime for more than twenty years, risking their lives. [[Live, prolonged general applause]] I would like to inform you that just yesterday a district of the Carabinieri was opened in San Luca: this means that the State is there and is working well in the fight against crime. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Senators of the 5 Star Movement, elected in large numbers in the South, asking you to pay great attention to the revival of the South which cannot consist, dear Mr Di Maio, only in the income of citizenship. My South, the South I know, is the South that wants to work, that wants dignity, that can only come from work, infrastructure, health care, that is a sacred right, enshrined in the Constitution and justice. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Returning to Article 3, to which the President of the Council referred earlier, I believe that the South lacks precisely the guarantee, which is also provided by the Constitution which imposes on the State the equality of all citizens. The citizens of the South need the State to ensure legality and transparency and to commit itself to creating the infrastructural conditions present in all other parts of Italy and you will see that, if we have them also in the South, we will be able to create in the South that flywheel of wealth and economic and financial resources that serve inside the Country to get out of the crisis. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u19	The presidency all joins the applause of the Assembly for the National Carabinieri Weapon Day. Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Government for its thorough intervention, which leaves us moved, and we who are dealing with this parliamentary term as a parliamentary majority. I would like to say a few words about agriculture, with the certainty that from Cinderella of the past she will become the princess of this legislature. Agriculture, Mr President, is one of the strategic sectors of our economy, contributing 2.1% to GDP and - even more importantly - ranks second on the list of sectors preferred by young entrepreneurs, thus constituting an important outlet for youth entrepreneurship. Italian agri-food is a guarantee all over the world and I am sure that we will strive for new forms of multifunctional agriculture to give us the opportunity to bring social value on the territory, to combine agricultural activity with cultural, environmental protection and the relaunch of tourism. The main problem with relaunching the sector is, however, very important: covering production costs, because our farmers very often fail to cover the costs incurred for their production. The price scissors from producer to consumer are the highest in Europe and this economic distortion in favour of major industrial processing and distribution requires - and will be done - urgent re-examination. The causes of this scissors are many: the wild imports at zero duty, which often use agriculture as a means of exchange in international negotiations, without any consideration of the heavy impact that this entails on the economic, employment, social and environmental levels; the dusting of the supply chains, the small size of the farms, which make the farmer particularly weak in the negotiation with the great transformation and the large distribution; the conditioning of the agri-food market by the mafia associations, which come to establish the prices of the crops, manage the transport and the sorting and control entire chains of supermarkets and the export of our - true or false - made in Italy. I am sure that this Government will address the most important challenges and resolve them and they will be above all at European level, starting with a rethinking of trade agreements, both bilateral and multilateral, which often translate the formula of free trade with a fierce competition on prices, workers' rights and the environment. Cooperation policies must export resources, technologies and rights and not import slaves, and I am sure that this Government will do so. In this regard, we must work in the new legislature to make the law against the caporalate more effective and stringent, to which we have actively cooperated in the last parliamentary term. We must act on the network for quality agricultural work and work - and here I address the new Minister of Labour - to achieve an effective and virtuous meeting of supply and demand, especially for seasonal agricultural workers, who do not always meet their employers virtuously. We must ensure decent living conditions for agricultural workers and not those in slums and I am thinking of the recent tragedy mentioned by our new President-in-Office of the Council. In addition to being a horrible violation of human rights, the boss also generates unfair competition between dishonest companies and virtuous companies to the detriment of the latter, which must be supported and helped effectively. It will be necessary to promote forms of aggregation between farmers and new supply chain agreements that give greater strength to the primary sector and greater strength to farmers in negotiating with large retailers. We also need to think about transparent labelling, in which all the steps in the chain are reported, in order to allow the consumer to monitor the relative steps and price increases. We must ensure that Made in Italy is also revived by a different form of protectionism, what we want to call cultural protectionism. However, in order for the consumer to choose an Italian product, it is necessary to act at European level, by amending the current legislation, which provides for the place of origin of the last substantial processing and not the place in which the raw material was produced. We are sure that we will protect the "made in " rather than the " made by ", because our agri-food productions are of quality and of value, not only because of the mode of production, but also because of the wonderful peculiarity of the territories of origin. Our farmers are being oppressed by a forest of red tape, difficulties in accessing credit and a dramatic and ineffective mechanism for accessing European funds. For this reason, in the effort to simplify legislation, there must be a review of all those rules concerning agricultural enterprises and an effective and timely reorganisation of the agency that distributes European funds to agriculture. The most urgent issue that this Government will face in Europe is, however, the cuts to the Italian agricultural sector foreseen in the financial framework 2020-2027, which unfortunately amount to over 1.8 billion euros: a huge amount, which is likely to cause damage to the sector. The European Commission, in our view, must be forced to abandon the path of linear and indiscriminate cuts, which would benefit large companies, which often, with the common agricultural policy, only benefit from money for accounting operations. I therefore venture to call for pressure to be put on the reform to focus on a careful and efficient allocation of resources, with consequences for the environment and society. In a draft legislature that puts the legality at the centre, there must be an effective fight against the phenomenon - alas very sad - of agromafie. The total annual turnover of agromafias has risen to 21.8 billion euros in the last year, 30% more than in the previous year. The food supply chain, its production, transport, distribution and sale has become one of the priority areas of investment of the underworld, which is appropriated in this way of vast sectors of agri-food and the resulting gains, destroying the legal competitiveness, stifling honest entrepreneurship, but also seriously compromising the quality and safety of our products to the detriment of consumers, undermining the image of Italian products and the value of Made in Italy. This is a business that unfortunately the state fights with weapons sprung up, because the current regulations date back to the last century. There is therefore a need for a widely shared effort to quickly approve more current and effective legislation to combat the phenomenon of agromafie, which also has such an effect on the phenomenon of caporalate. In short, we have for Italian agriculture an ambitious list of wishes, as ambitious is the overall project of this legislature that I am sure will have a phenomenal outcome, but that can be achieved with a commitment to maintain the centrality of the parliamentary confrontation, as our President of the Council suggested, in order to achieve the objectives, in a virtuous and constructive interlocution between all the political forces of Parliament with the Government, in compliance with our beautiful Constitution. Thank you and wish us all a good job. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u21	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u22	Mr President, the intervention of the President-in-Office of the Council has been in the name of discontinuity and renewal and the League is fully recognized in this approach and in this course of government. The President of the Council has defined his Executive as the Government of Change and we consider ourselves proudly bearers of new ideas and a new vision of politics, today as in the past, since the birth of our movement; a movement of people strongly linked to the territories, with their multiple diversity, which for us represent a great wealth to be valued. We are fully aware that the alliance between the League and the 5 Star Movement represents a risky and in some ways risky choice, because we are two different and alternative political forces: we were not allies at the recent political elections. This is all of this, but above all a great challenge that we do not want and cannot escape: this, Mr President, is in fact the only possible government. We are different, but we are united by a very important and fundamental common element: we are united by the great trust placed in us by the majority of Italian citizens who voted on 4 March. And when consensus is achieved, we have a moral duty to put ourselves at stake, to show that we have earned the confidence of the voters, and we will do everything we can to be able to live up to it. In this alliance two movements were involved, but also their leaders, who decided to join the government team with great responsibility. It is therefore not a choice taken lightly, but born of the will and the conviction that it can do well in the interests of all citizens. We are also aware that we are all against it, that we will not be forgiven for any mistakes and that many people trust in the failure of this governmental experience, but this challenge does not scare us, although for many it can represent a unique opportunity to wipe out in one shot only two critical and non-traditional political forces, two alternative and anti-system forces, two political movements that believe that blind and exasperated economic rigor is not the only way to build Europe. We believe that there can and can be an idea of Europe that does not provide for the abolition of the sovereignty of nations, of individual communities, of the fundamental individual rights of citizens. We know perfectly well the strength and the economic and media power of our opponents, but we accept the challenge: we will not get away from our responsibilities. This is a much more difficult challenge than the recent electoral dispute, a far more important challenge than the long journey that has led to the formation of a parliamentary majority in these three months. We will have to demonstrate that we are able to govern, that we are able to give concrete answers to the hopes and desire for change expressed with force and determination by our citizens with their vote on 4 March. The League believes in it and wants to trust this government. We accept this challenge and we have every intention of winning it, in the interests of the country and the Italian citizens. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u23	Senator Steger is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a prerequisite for our country's growth is political stability, so we hope that this majority will be able to give Italy the necessary stability. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the special autonomy granted by the State to linguistic minorities, in our territory to German and Ladin minorities, is a heritage and a treasure for the country, not a burden. Peaceful coexistence between linguistic groups is a wealth for all of us and we must be proud of this. I think South Tyrol and Trentino are proof that the development of autonomy and self-government is the right recipe to grow a territory. Madam Minister Stefani, we will try hard to convince you that self-government and autonomy, the special one for its particularity, but also that of the other regions of Italy that are able to govern it, are the real key to the development of the country. And we, Madam Minister, are at your disposal if you need good practice or suggestions from those who have been training and practicing in this field for decades. Europe, for a territory like ours, is fundamental. South Tyrol and Trentino are a small Europe in Europe and, in a globalised world, in a globalised economy, a united Europe and a true political union are the only solution to ensure peace and well-being for future generations and our children. So we strongly call on this Government to ensure that Italy remains, even for the next few years, an important player in and not outside the European Union. Economically speaking, we must not give China, the USA and Russia the opportunity to deal with Italy, Germany or France; no, they must deal with Europe, which is still the strongest economy in the world. Mr President, we hope for a Europeanist Italian Government. Your coalition contract is very ambitious, it has to be acknowledged. We have strong doubts about its financial viability and we need to be very careful about the financial markets. The challenge against spread can only be overcome by a serious and rigorous policy, characterised by reliability and predictability, and an innovative policy. This is why we support the most innovative policy points concerning the green economy (South Tyrol has been pursuing a green region strategy for years) and the circular economy. We look forward to an offensive in the field of education and training, with a strong focus on vocational training and apprenticeship. In South Tyrol one third of young people attend a vocational school, which gives excellent results on the labour market and gives prospects to our young people. And we are convinced that tourism is important. In all these fields we are ready to make our due contribution. We - and I conclude, Mr President - do not want to close the doors to this Government, but we want to discuss individual issues without ideological prejudice. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), PD and FdI, and from the government benches]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u25	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u26	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this parliamentary term is finally about to begin. We avoided writing the ugliest page in the parliamentary history of our Republic, making our legislature fail without even starting it. I do not intend to dwell on the ninety days necessary to give birth to this Government, its contradictions and the exaggerated tactics that have even risked the indictment of the highest office of the State. Allow me, on behalf of the UDC as a member of the Forza Italia Group, to express our deepest gratitude to the Head of State for the wisdom and patience with which he has brought us out of the most complicated parliamentary crisis since the birth of our Republic. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] We would have liked a different conclusion, namely a mandate given to the centre-right coalition, but we express deep respect for the prerogatives guaranteed by the Constitution to the President of the Republic. I want to open a small parenthesis on Europe. Often the founding fathers of the European Union are mentioned, rightly so, in order to counter them to those who support the evil idea of the exit from the euro of Italy. Well, today, with strength and conviction, we say that not even the contemptuous words of Commissioner Oettinger and Commission President Juncker are in the wake of the idea of a Europe of peoples wanted by Schuman, De Gasperi and Adenauer. [[Applause from Senator De Poli.]] We call on the European institutions to stop these provocations and to have respect for the Italian people! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] To conclude, President, we are not in the world of the unknown, as someone has commented on authoritative newspapers, just because he cannot understand what happened on March 4, and we are not even at the final clash, at the O.K. Corral, between the elites and the people. You see, President Conte, the more I read the opinions of those who have monopolized the thinking of recent years, creating a Manichaean vision of society, the more I would say that perhaps it would be appropriate to reflect on your Government. Here there is no discount between the elites and the people. On the contrary: looking at the faces and stories of some members of the Government, who sit on the benches of the Government, we can say that here is born a new union between an establishment and who interprets, perhaps even radically, some instances of the people. We are, yes, in a new world, a world with uncertain and unencrypted borders, at least for now, of which we must have no fear, indeed, we must strive further to understand its essence and prepare ourselves best for the next challenges. To conclude, President, the UDC will not vote, in accordance with what has been decided with the friends of the Forza Italia Group, on the trust of this Government, but we will never back down when it presents legislative measures compatible with the program that characterized the coalition of center-right, which we hope will soon return to speak to the country with one voice. Thank you and good work. [[Applause from the FI-BP groups and Senator De Bertoldi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u27	Senator Monti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u28	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I wish the new Government every success in the interest of Italy. Furthermore, anyone who has had the honour and the burden of sitting where you sit since today, President Conte, cannot fail to wish you a special wish. I don't trust this government's failure. It has been said that you would be a Head of Government halved because you have two political leaders at your side all round, Vice Presidents Di Maio and Salvini. I don't think it will be. I hope it won't be. A government is effective if it is the President of the Council and if it fully exercises its powers and responsibilities. Rather, I am sure that the government would get more credit and more consensus, even with those in Parliament and in the country today who do not support it, if it began its life with an act of modesty and realism. Not the President of the Council, but your entire Government would be born today as a halved Government if other political forces had not given, at a very difficult time in the country's life, evidence of great responsibility. Whatever you, Lords of the Government, may think of Forza Italia, of the Democratic Party, of the then Third Pole and of Brothers of Italy in its initial phase, the fact that since November 2011, when the speaker has been called to take that place, for over a year, have supported unpopular measures, has allowed Italy to take out of a frightening financial crisis and gradually to bring it to an even too slow recovery. You, with all due respect, colleagues of the League and the 5 Star Movement, as a League exercised a coherent and burning opposition in Parliament and in the country, and the 5 Star Movement, in the country, in the sites, spread very cynically - often in total contrast to the factual reality - theses that were not certain, as is legitimate, in the direction of the efforts of the then Government, which then Parliament, with 92 percent of confidence, encouraged. Yes, you would have the troika today: you would be a government halved because you would be reduced to agents of a semi-colonial government. [[Comments from M5S and L-SP Groups.]] The Troika is a disgusting reality, in my opinion, even if it comes from the European Union and the Monetary Fund, and we have done everything - Italian citizens, political forces, my Government and I personally - to save Italy this demonstration of poor dignity. The troika has been avoided, with the effort of rehabilitation done within the country, thanks to a long arm wrestling with Germany and Chancellor Merkel, culminated in June 2012 - the Minister of Foreign Affairs who sits next to you can give you any indication and suggestion, having had a significant role at my side [[Applause from Senator Malpezzi) -]] And that was the premise that enabled the European Central Bank to move towards policies that today, if anything, run the risk of getting us all to fall asleep. It is not excluded - I do not say this with a spirit of provocation, but only with a sense of duty, having devoted perhaps more time in my life than many other people to the close examination of these problems - that Italy may have to suffer what it avoided then, that is, the humiliation of the troika. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] I very much hope not. Today the spread, this indicator observed in a somewhat too manichean way, but that also exists, is 235 points for Italy, 98 points for Spain, 143 points for Portugal, and this under quantitative easing regime: remove that, as it will happen soon, and this 235 is not vastly different from that 575 that Minister Moavero, me and many parliamentarians still remember here. Yours is the Government of Change; to this I would like to applaud while emphasizing some... [[Call the president back.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say goodbye to a change that has already taken place: it has been disconcerting, but in the right direction, the added value and the concern that has been removed from the contract for the Government, from its edition to its edition. You know that, however, writing that you are asking the Central Bank to pardon EUR 250 billion is something that you can cancel, but it leaves in foreign observers...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u29	Please finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u30	MONTI (Mixed). Definitely. I shall conclude, Mr President. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u31	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u32	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, welcome to this House! You, President-in-Office of the Council, perhaps in the difficulty of doing what is your job - and we hope you will do so - and that is the Head of Government, presented the programme by calling himself a defender of the citizens. Well, the defender of citizens is always a different part, third compared to the Head of Government, compared to the Government. Similarly, in the last part, you have been a judge in Parliament: you cannot judge Parliament, you must - and we hope it will - act as the Head of Government. This means that it is you who must ensure that Parliament has a fair and constructive government in the drafting of the legislative process. If this happens, if you ensure that Parliament has a fair and constructive government in the legislative process, we will judge from time to time, not only with a constructive attitude, but with a proactive opposition to what you are going to propose and in turn propose to Parliament our legislative initiatives - many of which we have already presented - precisely to fill the gaps, many of which are in the programme you have signed and in the report you are doing to Parliament. We will always have a transparent and loyal attitude, as we have been - yes - even at the time of the government's birth. Yes, transparent and loyal, we cannot always say the same thing as others. Dear President of the Council, the Government that sits at its side - and former Prime Minister Monti has pointed this out to some extent - is a Minotaur Government, the result of a love that may be irresistible but certainly unnatural, that is not born in Crete, perhaps born in Malta. It is Minotauro his Government, because half political and half technical: over 40% of the members the Government is technical. Technical is yourself, technical are the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Economics, that is technical are the Ministries of Serie A, except the Minister of the Interior, that we appreciate, because in solid political hands. Well, in view of this, we are concerned about the synthesis that you have achieved in the composition of the Government and therefore about the possible execution of the program and our allies of the League we ask why it left to the 5 Star Movement the Ministries who determine the policy for enterprise and development, productivity, growth and therefore employment. You have left to the Five Stars the Ministry of Economic Development and Labour and Social Policy, transport, infrastructure, environment, energy, communication, foreign trade, the Mezzogiorno: everything that creates development and enterprise. In fact, there is no letter "i": there is no enterprise in the government program. It is a priorityless contract, an alphabetical list of good intentions, largely shared by everyone, but lacking a shared vision and supported by the voters' vote. It is a summation of particular interests, perhaps all fully legitimate and shared, but lacks the general interest: the summation of particular interests does not make the general interest, if there is no vision of the future, if there is no project for the country. We ask ourselves and ask them, for example, precisely because there is no programme: on Thursday a technical minister, the Minister of Defence, will be at the NATO Summit in Brussels. In the contract there are few lines for defense, as if it were a minor matter: two pages on sport, a few lines on defense, a few lines on the South, nothing on the enterprise. What is the priority? The defense or the sport? The South or the sports organizations? Well, for the defence, as a priority, there is talk of family reunification of the military, on which the Minister-in-Office, with yesterday's measure on his joint, is certainly very experienced. But I ask you: what is the position that the Government will express at the next NATO Defence Council on very important issues, since they must prepare the summit on 11 and 12 July on security in the Mediterranean, which is a matter of priority national interest? You didn't talk about it today. Are you talking about this in response or are you waiting to bring the Conciliation Committee together? In this regard, I would also like to ask you: what is the government's position on the G7 summit in Canada on Friday, where a clear and clear position will have to be taken on the subject that is vital to our productive system, what is the position of the trade and customs war launched by the United States? Which side are you on? On the part of Germany - let me give you an example - that this year has the historical record of 8% of GDP as a trade surplus, a factor that has triggered the American reaction, or on the side of the interests of Italy, that needs a world in which duties do not stifle our enterprises? He will also have to say, for example, about the American withdrawal from the agreement with Iran, which has taken place, but we still do not know the position of the Italian Government to guarantee our companies. I ask you: since there is no such thing in the programme, why are you talking about family reunification and not saying anything about foreign and tariff policy, understood as a trade war in relations with the German giant, what will be your position? We don't know. All right, let's wait. Just as you have said nothing about issues that have emerged in these days on which Ministers and potential Ministers have spoken. I'm talking about energy: the TAP-Trans Adriatic Pipeline is an alternative to North Stream and German gas supremacy. Is the TAP confirmed or not? Is Pedemontana confirmed or not? Will Ilva be kept open or closed? Is high speed going to happen or not? To have a proactive opposition, there is a need for a loyal and constructive Government. I conclude by saying that our compass, as always, will be the national interest and we will move on that, in the awareness of our parliamentary strength. We are 18 senators; the League, in the last legislature, when the Letta Government was born - Letta, like Count, put together the two major forces - had 17 senators and abstained; we have 18 and we will decide in this Parliament on the basis only of national interest. So we have done these days, so we will always do. Long live Italy! [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u33	Senator Misiani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u34	Mr President, the new government's programme indicates a path that may not take us far. (Following MISIANI). In these months, in the election campaign, the Movimento 5 Stars and the League, separately, have made very demanding promises to voters, from flat tax, to citizenship income, from 100, to zero VAT on early childhood products. The government contract is not a synthesis and a selection of priorities, it is a sum of many electoral flags and this removes credibility to the feasibility of such projects. The implementation of many of the proposals contained in the contract would turn Italy into a more closed country, more unjust, farther away from Europe. I refer to the proposals on justice, immigration, taxation and foreign policy. President Conte has stated in the press that there has never been a talk about quitting the euro. That is a necessary clarification. President, we hope you will clarify this also to its majority shareholders, because Beppe Grillo, founder of the Movimento 5 Stars, on May 4, 2018, relaunched the referendum on the euro and the League, another majority shareholder, deleted the inscription "Bust Euro" from the walls of Via Bellerio only on May 31, 2018. [[Applause from the PD Group]] President. - The next item is the report (Doc. We want to change Europe in order to strengthen it, because we believe that Europe is the place to take back our destiny, because only through Europe can Italy best defend Italian citizens and businesses. Now, the Europe that Matteo Salvini has in mind is a very different project: it is the small Europe of Orban, of the group of Visegrád, incidentally, the first countries that have left us alone in managing the refugee emergency. [[Applause from the PD Group]] To get out of Europe and monetary union does not need an explicit choice on the part of our country, it is enough to take the path of fiscal irresponsibility and the risk of fiscal irresponsibility lies in the numbers that President Conte has carefully avoided to give us, it is in the costs of the contract, ranging from 108 to 169 billion euros without any credible coverage. It is not necessary to be a refined economist to be aware that these numbers are unsustainable for the state budget. Italy has a public debt of 2,300 billion euros. And every year we have to convince savers, Italians and foreigners, to buy 400 billion government bonds. And to convince them, what really matters is not the Brussels rules, it is not the fiscal compact: it is our credibility as debtors. Now, presenting a very expensive and uncovered program weakens the credibility of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Summoning exit plans B from the euro, as a Minister of this Government has done, risks resetting the confidence of savers in the Italian State. You're in the government today, President Count. Get your feet back on the ground. You are dealing with reality, because you will in no way be able to achieve everything you promised in the election campaign. The pull and drop on yesterday's flat tax is just the beginning of what we'll see in the next few months. Mr President, we are going to make a severe but constructive opposition. If the new government puts aside the propaganda and presents agreeable measures, we will support them. Our priorities are income of inclusion, minimum wage, support for families with children, reduction of insecurity, relaunch of investment, aid for Italian companies; if you do this, we will support you. If, on the other hand, you throw billions of euros into the wind to do welfare and reduce taxes on the rich, we will vote against it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] If you take down by party the good work done by previous governments, we will oppose it. And if you try to get us back on the ground of social rights and civil rights, we will say no with the utmost force: in Parliament and in the country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Minister Fontana makes a point: rainbow families exist in this country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The mayors of the Movimento 5 Stars also recognized this and today the European Court of Justice recognised it. I'm gonna finish. After eighty-nine days of ballet and theater, a new government finally settled in. We are not convinced by the idea of a country expressing the government's program. We are not convinced by the orientation of many policies, the vagueness of so many proposals. That is why we shall vote against trust. Mr President, Robert Kennedy (tomorrow the 50th anniversary of his death) said that moral courage is the only essential and vital quality for those who seek to change the world. You have proclaimed yourselves the Rule of Change. Moral courage serves to change the world and now the time of words and promises is over. You have a moral obligation to leave the permanent election campaign. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You have a moral duty to start working. No more selfies and Facebook! It is time for propaganda to leave room for government choices, even difficult choices, in the name of the general interest and the future of the country. Now it's your turn. It's up to you to follow the promises. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u35	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barbaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, when I proudly debut in the ranks of the League in this House, I intend, in my brief speech, to adhere to the spirit and courage that inspired the birth of this Government; a Government that does not have within it, and this is the first time in our country, the representatives of the European People's Party or of the European Socialist Party. We are faced, therefore, with a courageous, experimental experience (in some ways emerging), to which the adverse forces will not make discounts. But this Government is born with the sole intention of doing the interests of the Italian people and finds our support and confidence precisely in the conviction that for so long, too long, Italy has neglected its national interests in a bleak framework of the transfer of its sovereignty to a Community institution that is not always on our side, sometimes even the enemy of our enterprise, our workers, our families and our own identity. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] The very fact that this Government, even before its birth, has intimidated and irritated some European politicians is proof that we are on the right side, on the side of the Constitution, that - as we know - it attaches sovereignty to the Italian people: exclusively to it. It is important that the government that is about to be born has a guarantee of extra transparency: the contract between the political forces that form the majority. In the course of his speech, the President of the Council referred to the contract several times, calling it a radical change in relation to constant practice. For the first time, the programmes have preceded the appointments and all this has resulted in reciprocal commitments; a synallagma - to use familiar term to the President of the Council - which characterized the birth of this Government and indicated its course. Among these commitments, let me stress only one aspect, certainly not priority for the life of the country, but important for my reference world, from which I come, which is that of sports associationism. I am referring to the centrality that in the contract is attributed to sport in the dynamics of growth of the country. I hope that this centrality will be conducive to the recognition of a constitutional dignity for sport, as well as to the introduction of a framework law for the reform of the sporting system. It is, in fact, a sector fragmented by a corpus of uneven and non-organic laws by political and strategic direction. The President-in-Office of the Council, who, in his report, gave space and referred to the world of sports associations, was particularly appreciated. He referred to the army of volunteers, who, by providing services, daily compensates for public shortcomings. It's the real backbone of the country. Sports associations will be able to allow us to redesign the whole sports system, through a redefinition of tasks and - above all - rights, which have often and gladly not been considered. In this context, it will also be essential to address the endemic problem of the world of sport, i.e. its relations with the school. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Barbaro, please conclude. Mr Barbaro (L-SP). To conclude, to turn these wishes into certainty, always remaining in the sports field, I would also like to stress that the contract is crossed with the guarantee of a sport man. I therefore entrust myself to the direction of the State Secretary to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, Mr Giancarlo Giorgetti; I am sure that through his experience as a sportsman it will be possible to translate these wishes into certainties. In conclusion, President Conte, I wish you every success and at the same time I wish you every success in Italy. We are convinced that you and your team will best represent the demands for change and, with them, you will be able to give concrete answers to our country. To her, President, and to our Government, the best wishes for good work. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u37	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, President of the Council, Members of the Government, I am one of those who had hoped for a centre-right government. After all, elected to a South UN college, I felt with my hand how fundamental the coalition is in the current electoral system. However, when, for reasons which are not here, it became clear that the only possible Commission was what today calls for confidence in this House, I felt that it would be a mistake to prevent it from being born. And I believe that President Berlusconi's willingness, in addition to having been politically far-sighted, has helped to preserve our institutions and the country from a dangerous screw-up. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] There is another aspect, which concerns all oppositions in this House, and which suggests avoiding hypocrisy here. No one escapes that if the troubled gestation of the Government had not been successful, a close-distance vote would in all likelihood have penalized the opponents much more than the parties to the majority pact. President. - As the author is not present, I shall vote against the vote against the vote of confidence, in accordance with the Group to which I am a member as Idea's representative. And I will rigorously play my role as an opposition parliamentarians, so that the judicialist, regressive, pauperist urges present in the vast and composite programmatic contract that we have heard summarized today have not followed. I think, however, without fear of contradicting myself, that there should not be a preliminary attitude towards this Government. At least the center-right doesn't have to have it. Not only because among the preventive enemies you would not always be in good company (personally, for example, when Soros is on the one hand, I prefer to be on the other). Not only because there is a piece of coalition in this government, as has happened in the past to inverse parts. But also because this Executive is based on an old-new scheme that is not unpublished in our most recent history. It was in fact an old-new scheme to hold together in 1994 the Social Movement, the North League and the Radical Party, parallel universes that only the common alliance with Forza Italia, combined with the flame in the South and the green shirts in the North, managed to amalgamate in the revolutionary novelty of a center-right government. A scheme, however, is not a guarantee of success, Mr President. For an infinite number of reasons; I will expose only two. First of all, we do not belong to the institutional formula in which the alleged change is noun: a sort of Governing Directory - so would have called Vittorio Emanuele Orlando - with parties that would like to be strong and a Premier who would want to be very weak (with respect for his person, President), offset by an idea of direct democracy that embodies the myth of the Roussovian general will. A myth, in fact. Now, we also know that the link between the people and representation must be strengthened, but we believe that the path of presidentialism with the necessary counterweights is by far preferable to the systemic circumcerve that has been shown to us today. The second reason is content. Mr President, you have spoken a lot about the end of the right and left categories, and I also think that they should be updated. But they respond to deep-rooted ideals and sensibilities that at some point claim all their rights. This is demonstrated by the contradictions inherent in the government contract: how to reconcile, for example, criminal justiceism with the ambition to give a liberal turning point to the relationship between state and taxpayers? We will try to bring these contradictions to the fore, so that between everything and its opposite is an approach as close as possible to the centre-right programme to prevail. That is also why I believe that there is a need for a strict and non-prejudice attitude. The facts of these hours are emblematic. You can leave ethically sensitive themes out of a contract (and probably it's good). You can also get rid of an idea of family and, therefore, of parenting in the personal opinion of a minister. But, in the long run, the vision that one has of the person, of life, of freedom, of responsibility, ends up pervading every choice, even the one that seems most foreign to these areas. I am sure that at this stage all the forces of the centre-right will be able to interpret their respective and different roles without jeopardising the reasons for the alliance. But I am even more certain that, even where the daily dialectic sometimes had to transcend, it will be the basic ideals that will remind everyone who we are and what our natural home is beyond the parenthesis that we are living. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Mr President, I would ask that the remaining part of my speech be added.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u39	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u40	Senator Morra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u41	President, Ministers, all of us, today we have moved on and we have done so because we had a President-in-Office of the Council who mentioned philosophers, intellectuals, sociologists and great Russian literature; we have been accustomed to previous Presidents of the Council who quoted the Jalisses or television series. Long live it, I think it's a qualitative leap. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] I think it is a qualitative leap, because if this country wants to save itself, Professor Conte, it must invest - as is explicitly stated in the contract - in knowledge, because where there is knowledge there is no ignorance and where there is no ignorance cannot triumph injustice. I want to be included in the debate, because this is a debate and perhaps we should also listen and take inspiration from what other Members have said. To me, as a senator elected in Calabria, it is okay to recognize that Senator Magorno has already begun a commitment that will take place at the Tendopolis of San Calogero, where, precisely, he survived - I don't even mean "living" - a young man of twenty-nine years who had only the misfortune to end up in a territory that perhaps is more unfortunate than what he came from: Calabria. Calabria which is South, a South that has been defined by Svimez, not by the Movimento 5 Stars or by others, at risk of anthropic and productive desertification. If you want me to translate it: there will be no more chance of surviving, working and producing, because by now the South has been capitalistically abandoned. And then, Professor Conte, I know that you share this attention with me towards the South, so much so that this Government has meritoriously decided to promote a Ministry for the South rather than for territorial cohesion, because this country has a dramatic emergency called the Mezzogiorno. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Perhaps this emergency, which is intertwined with another very serious emergency, the youth one - because by now the children are forced to leave the country - can be even more consciously addressed by those who quote Hans Jonas, because reading the principle of responsibility, whoever has political sensitivity, understands what is the duty of the public man. Excuse me, then, how can we not thank an executive who, at least in commitment, ensures that it will regulate the conflict of interest? It is a joke to go abroad and to hear that there is still the problem of conflict of interest in Italy. It's something unheard of. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But when, then, to the words of Senator Mirabelli, who rightly wanted to put at the center of attention what happened in the plain of Gioia Tauro, is added Senator Siclari, coming like me from Calabria, who recalls our Constitution (fortunately sometimes we do so), exactly the second paragraph of the third article, where it is specified that to each of us, regardless of who is born and from where is born, must be allowed to have at least one possibility, well, then I ask myself: but these gentlemen before where were they? Did they happen to have government responsibilities, or didn't they? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Because here it seems to me that those who have come now to try to save the boat ask: Where were you when we had dramas and tragedies? Because you provoked this! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Comments of Senator Malpezzi]] I would also like to mention another colleague who, fortunately, in a clear and Cartesian way, has specified that what allowed the launch of this Executive is a contract. I repeat: contract. No one dare say anything else. Thank you, Senator Tosato. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] MALPEZZI (PD). Program! MORRA (M5S). Contract means that you specify what and how and you start working to achieve as soon as possible what all citizens, from the North to the South and from the South to the North, expect. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I'm sorry, I don't bother when others talk and I think I deserve the same respect. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senator Malpezzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u42	Don't worry that, when it's necessary, we can call back. Go ahead with the surgery, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u43	MORRA (M5S). I would also like to focus on a few words that always deserve further consideration and reflection. These are words spoken by the former President of the Council and Senator for Life, Mario Monti. Take care, talk about disgusting realities, even if the International Monetary Fund (the reference is to the troika, just go and take the shorthand report and you understand everything), gives the idea of what can become an increasingly conditioned and blackmailed Europe by the markets. I think that all of us must respect the markets, just as the markets must respect citizens and people. And maybe we've forgotten this in the last few years. It is true that the spread is 235 points, Professor Monti, but it is equally true that if we are drowning with a public debt that has become important, but that everyone assures us that it is sustainable (since others even have it more important than ours, as a percentage of GDP, as well as absolute), this is perhaps because some have spent cheerfully. Therefore, I would also wonder where Professor Monti was when others spent cheerfully. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] Professor, you teach me that it is not so much quantum, but rather the quality of public expenditure that must be assessed. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] If they become clientele and welfare - and those who ruled in this country have done so - they waste resources, resources that are taken away from public health, education, the infrastructure of the country. I come from territories where the concept of the net - I also do self-irony - is almost metaphysical: it is ethereal, impalpable. I think we can only wish all of us a government of change. Of course, words are easy to pronounce, facts are more complex, more difficult to achieve. That invitation - which I accept - from Senator Monti to modesty I think can be the best wish to all of us, because this country must be changed. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u44	He is enrolled to speak Senator Bishops. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u45	Mr President, I am very proud to be able to express my vote of full confidence. Yes, trust, that feeling of tranquillity and security that children have towards their father and mother, students towards the teacher, athletes towards the coach, 6 million voters towards the League and us towards you; trust in the government contract, which contains different and qualified program points, on which I want to dwell. Trust in foreign policy. Just be an integral part of the Atlantic Alliance, having a preferential relationship with the United States of America. Just recently I participated, at the American cemetery in Florence, in a touching commemoration in memory of many young Americans who sacrificed themselves in a distant land to give us back the fundamental good of freedom. [[Applause from Senator Bonfrisco]] When you see thousands of white crosses on a green expanse and think about what dreams they would have realized if they hadn't fallen for us you just have to say thank you. Thank you, America! [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] At the same time, however, trust in the relationship with the Russian Federation, a partner of absolute standing. Putting the embargo on a state that recognizes the 2014 referendum, with which 97% of the people of Crimea have decided to join the Russian Federation, with great damage to Italian companies, is not understandable. The sanctions put them by politicians, but it is businesses and citizens who pay the price. Frontiers have always changed over the centuries and change them by a vote, by the will of a people, without wars, is a great achievement for humanity: the principle of self-determination of peoples. Europe, yes, but different, and with regard to which Parliament's role is strengthened. Trust in the matter of fiscal policy to draw a new serious and fair tax, moving from an immediate tax peace to arrive at a single rate, rewarding the merit and the desire to produce, so that the resignation of the people of VAT matches, which today feels like a hamster on a wheel that spins without ever being able to stop to pay the expenses and taxes, turns into the dream of being able to fulfill their desires. Tax peace to avoid other suicides of entrepreneurs who, destroyed by the pain of losing the company for which they fought, mistakenly prefer to take their own lives so as not to see everything escape. My thoughts go to them. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] Trust a government that defends the producer. Trust for a Government that establishes a Ministry that will deal with the problems of disabled people; a topic that has prompted me to deposit my first bill. Trust a government that is committed to greater defence of its citizens. It is difficult for me to explain to my four-year-old daughter that today in Italy we cannot defend ourselves at home and that a victim must compensate a fugitive: crazy and incredible. I remember the "intelligent" proposal to be able to defend himself only at night, which fortunately has not passed. Trust a government that values the Forces of Order in the performance of its work. It is not easy, when attacked by violent people, to determine in a matter of seconds the degree of legitimate reaction: it is easy to establish it in a cold mind, without emotions. My thoughts go to all law enforcement. Finally, trust a government that thinks of greater autonomy under Article 5 of the Constitution, in the hope of seeing a federal and presidential country. Trust - and I conclude - a government that thinks first of all of the Italian people! [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u46	Senator Pichetto Fratin is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, members of the Government, we in the Forza Italia-Berlusconi Group are preparing to live and evaluate this Government from a particular, singular view. Our ally, the League, with which we govern Regions, Provinces and Municipalities and with which we shared the electoral program and of course we did the election campaign, is the Government; we are in opposition. We want change, too. Seriousness and a sense of responsibility lead us to evaluate with the utmost attention the content of the Government's proposal, with many points that were part of the joint centre-right programme in the elections of 4 March last. In the contract, as it is defined - let me also consider that there were previously political alliances, it was meant, while here there is a contract, which normally has between two parties that do not trust each other and put in writing - economic and security issues prevailed, as happened in the electoral campaign. Personally, I am particularly interested in the expansionary direction that we want to give to the economy, which naturally acts on a double path: a reduction in taxation, characterized by flat tax, which was part of the centre-right programme, and support and grant interventions similar to the definition of income of inclusion or citizenship (although the income of citizenship is different from the income of inclusion). This should promote consumption and free up resources for businesses, so it should restart the country. The theoretical aspect does not grin, but I hope it is not just a proclamation. We are a country blocked by excessive taxation, excessive bureaucracy, lack of material and intangible infrastructure and excess of quarrels and - automatically solutions - with justice. Let me make one point: all the governments that have presented themselves have announced a reduction in the time of justice and I hope it will be the right time. However, it seems to me that the idea of extending the prescription is intended to absolve the guilty and condemn the innocent. That is what happens with the extension of the prescription, which is instead a protection of the innocent. Ours is a nation that ages and needs new rules for demographic reasons, for the modernization of production and consumption and for the new international context it automatically needs a change. We share this: the flat tax was an important point of our program and we will not miss our contribution both in the construction of the specific norm and in the definition of a more modern tax system. Forty-five years have passed since the great tax reform that introduced VAT, the IRPEF, the ILOR (as it was then called), the IRPEG and the new indirect taxes; it was right then and - I agree with the President of the Council of Ministers - today it is no longer, it is no longer current: then there was a closed country, now there is another country. With as much attention we will evaluate the actions related to social policies, solidarity, social inclusion; certainly not the cheque to all, offended to those who have worked a life, or the pension of citizenship, because the social pension has been invented in this country many years ago; however the reform of the centers for employment, as well as an evaluation of social security through formulas of pension also for those who do not have a continuous job will see our presence. We are a country to be infrastructured; the global competition and the well-being of the peoples divide those who develop from those who remain behind in relation to the ability and the speed of the transfer of goods, people and news; therefore forward with broadband and with the TAV. In conclusion, we are for a reality in which consumption and investment are linked to the level of trust; however, the confidence of citizens does not come by decree, but by credibility and then we respect the Constitution and thus Article 81 of the Constitutional Charter. Let us discuss, modify, talk about the real problems of the country: I have not heard any mention of industry, tourism or school. We will be careful about this; of course we will not lack our critical support with the vote against, but also in favour of the measures we share. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u48	President. - The debate is closed. Senator Marsilio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, senators and senators, in the face of the constitution of the Grillino-Leghist Government led by Professor Conte, we feel the need to briefly retrace the stages of this journey and the position that has taken the Brothers of Italy. We claim the consistency and loyalty with which we have behaved both in the face of the voters and in our relations with the political forces with which we have signed a programme and a coalition of government. First, and at times, unfortunately alone, we have supported the need for the centre-right, who came out in the elections on 4 March as a coalition with a relative majority in Parliament, to have the right and the duty to try to form the government. So it was not and, after weeks of asymmetrical explorations, a new parliamentary majority was formed, which never enthusiast us, even more so after having read and examined the Government contract, with its inevitable contradictions, the result of the difficult compromise between positions often objectively irreconcilable. At some point, however, there has been a new event, which has never happened before, when the President-in-Office had to put back the task he had received following the veto on the appointment of Professor Savona as Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, to which we give our human and political solidarity for the unjust treatment at once. This is not the place to review the choices of the President of the Republic. However, we have a duty to reflect on the consequences of the political and institutional crisis in which Italy was plummeting as a result of those choices. We ran the risk of an unprecedented institutional crisis, during which financial speculation had already begun to show the fangs of the spread, attacking the economy and the savings of the Italians, while authoritative representatives of the European and international institutions were not ashamed to make threatening statements of our national sovereignty and abusive of the Italian people. The experience of these few days of attack led to the sound of spreads and threats should make those who at the time supported a much more powerful similar attack, which led to the defenstration of the last Government legitimately elected by the popular vote. But now it's useless to talk about the past. Faced with the prospect of yet another technical government led by Cottarelli, which would have gathered a few dozen votes in Parliament, with an unstoppable rush to the early elections in the middle of summer and months of instability exposed to financial speculation, while the rest of the world works and certainly does not wait for our times and our comfortable (see, for example, Macron's France, which, in the absence of a foreign policy and a government that did its duty, has proposed in a solitary way as a protagonist in the resolution of the Libyan crisis, where our important national strategic interests are present), a movement like ours, which is inspired by the principle of national interest, was only to try to stop this drift. This is the sense of the appeal that Giorgia Meloni made, dictated by that healthy patriotism that is the polar star of Brothers of Italy. We have therefore welcomed the resumption of dialogue in order to form a political government, to which we have also offered our willingness, to enrich the programme with content and values and to broaden the parliamentary and popular support base, also in the awareness that, if we really want to question the balances and treaties that govern our relations with Europe, there will be such and so many reactions that a numerically small and politically ambiguous majority will hardly be able to support alone. This availability has not been collected, Mr President. The majority preferred to close in an exclusive relationship between the two contracting forces (perhaps also because of already too fragile balances to form this Government) and did not intend to enrich the program of the themes that we have proposed to its attention, which constitute our priorities and that here we come back to summarize in a transparent way: direct election of the Head of State, naval blockade off the Libyan coast, reduction of taxes and support for those who produce and create jobs, support for families and the birth rate and more. For this reason, we will not trust this Government and we will not be part of the parliamentary majority. We have, however, read, President Conte, in the closing of his speech, the opening to a different and new composition of the Government in progress, when he says that other political forces will be able to accede later to the Government contract, also offering a more stable contribution to the realization of our programme. Mr President, our subjects are the ones we have mentioned and we will take action on them, without prejudice: neither benevolence nor foreclosure. Ours is an attitude that, however, is not the son of that "pragmatism" that you claimed as the figure and novelty of this Government, proclaiming that: There are no more political forces expressing as a time total visions of the world........................................................................................... Perhaps this judgment will be true for the forces that make up the government. As far as we are concerned, we claim on the contrary, with pride and determination, that to govern and give a destiny to the Italian people it is not enough the pragmatism of common sense, which we also appreciate when it means an open approach to dialogue and based on sound principles, but it is necessary to draw inspiration from a framework of ideal values and moral and spiritual principles that we reassume in the tradition of Western European civilization and its Jewish-Christian roots that have not by chance been excluded from the Constitution of the European Union. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u50	Senator Cattaneo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u51	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a brief comment on my voting direction, which will be abstaining. It is an opportune abstention, without opposition - as is permitted by the recent reform of the Senate's Rules of Procedure - based on the need for the country, after a long period of stalemate, to have a Government in the fullness of its powers, which has the honour to govern by a parliamentary majority expression of the citizens' vote and must be able to start its work. Similarly, I believe that it is a duty inherent in the office which I have the honour to assume not to compromise in expressing my dissent whenever I doubt the appropriateness of the decisions which are the subject of parliamentary scrutiny. I am thinking, for example, of the issue of the relaxation of the vaccination obligation, which is the subject of recent and effective legislation, of which - I would suggest to the new Government and the new Minister of Health - it would be wise to wait a few years of operation and the consolidation of epidemiological data before suggesting changes. [[Applause from Senator Pharaoh]] For my part, Mr President, even at this new juncture I will continue to give life to the role of senator by focusing on identifying and suggesting to anyone who wants to treasure it, in Parliament and outside, especially methods of analysis that I believe can be of benefit to the whole country. It is with this predisposition of mind and will of dialogue that I am today expressing my will to abstain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u52	She is registered to speak Senator Bellanova. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u53	Mr President, Mr Conte, the contract that holds you together, and that you - as you have informed us - has a very discreet form of shared, does not contain specific measures on the Mezzogiorno. In his long speech he never mentioned the South. He said, however, that they are worth the written pages. I, in an elementary way, have concluded that you have removed the Mezzogiorno. Nothing on the South is written in your contract. However, the Mezzogiorno has given you so much support. He gave you, in spite of us, demands for change. And you are opposed to the demand for social and territorial cohesion by an embarrassing silence. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Zero proposals, zero content, but a Ministry; a Ministry without social cohesion, a Ministry without programme. Allow me, President Conte, to ask you a question: what is the use of a Ministry that does not know what to do? To what is it useful? [[Applause from the PD Group]] However, today, I do not want to argue. I would like to give you the opportunity to clarify in your reply. As I firmly believe that gross domestic product does not grow with the use of air conditioners - I hope you too, President [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] - I ask you - if you will, you will be able to respond politely - as we support and strengthen growth in the Mezzogiorno. The South has grown again thanks to the policies that the Government has put in place in previous years. A virtuous circuit of investments, growth and work has been started. How do you plan to improve and modify this process? You're a reader, and you've learned that from the many quotations. You've read the many reports you've made over the last few years and months. Tell those who will give you the vote of confidence that you are taking a country that is back on the move, and that it is good for you and this country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Tell us, then, President Conte: will you keep the tax credit in the Mezzogiorno? Will you maintain the benefits for permanent recruitment? How do you plan to support South excellence? The South is not just poverty, mafia and difficulties. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The South is work, quality work. The South are those many start-ups, especially women's ones, that are giving important results and satisfactions to the people who are involved. How do you intend to respond to the women and men of the Mezzogiorno, to the passion, skills and qualities of the young southern generations? Do you really think to answer with words as perhaps, about, when, it may be; with the income of citizenship what else does it do but feed the undeclared work? You said, Mr President, that inactive young people are locked up. And with assistantism, do you think young people are opening up to the future? Is it not necessary to assume to the full the paradigm that work is not just income? Work is dignity. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] And it is dignity if the reconciliation between enterprise, work and the Mezzogiorno is created. Then, when you have consulted the Conciliation Committee - I hope before your reply, because one of your Vice-Presidents has a lot more to do than listen to those who will vote against it and those who will vote against it - ask them - we very much want to know - whether or not you will be keeping up with the 34% clause on state investment in the Mezzogiorno. And how do you plan to attract foreign investment in the Mezzogiorno? You referred to corporate crises: if you want, then in private I can tell you how we managed 1,250 crisis tables and how we closed them with great satisfaction. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] But we had in mind that, if there is an enterprise, there is work; if there is no enterprise, the work latite. Mr President, you did not have time to say that in your speech by more than an hour; say it in the conclusions: what should ILVA do? You think you're making a new Bagnoli? One of its vice presidents knows that territory well and, therefore, knows what we are talking about: desertification, waste, unemployment, desperate people. Or should ILVA continue to produce quality steel, safeguarding more than 20,000 workers, incomes of entire families? ILVA must be revived in a productive way with environmental rehabilitation, with technological innovation, because ILVA is the interest of this country. And tell that to your two vice-presidents, because one of them said it had to be open and the other one had to close. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] If the ILVA in Taranto closes, it not only cancels the industry of an important industrial city of the Mezzogiorno - tell Senator Salvini - but also stops Novi Ligure and the factories in the North are in difficulty. You'd better give me an answer about that. We've heard a lot from you. I've also heard that you'll never be racist. President, you will never be racist what does that mean? Does it depend on the color of the skin? Haven't you been a little ashamed not to say half a word in the face of the murder of a young agricultural worker just because he had another skin color? [[Applause from the PD Group.]] We, the exploited women...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u54	Please, Senator, finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u55	BELLANOVA (PD). To women invested in trafficking, women... [[Comments from M5S and L-SP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u56	Let her express what she intends to express. You'll have plenty of time to replicate.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u57	BELLANOVA (PD). They're not accustomed to democracy, Mr. President. They prefer to sneak into television studios rather than confront each other, but government practice is a little more complicated. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from M5S and L-SP Groups]] AIROLA (M5S). Shut her up: shake the Chamber! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, please finish. BELLANOVA (PD). We made the law against the chieftain. We have clearly chosen which side to stand on, because, President, the leader is often run by the mafia and organised crime. And then, in the need of legality, put this in and put it to the bottom, because we made the law without looking at the consent in the face. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish it, or I'll have to take your word off. BELLANOVA (PD). You, if you can, try to do better. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u58	Senator Pirovano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u59	Mr President, for nine years I have had the great honour of being mayor of a beautiful village in Lower Bergamasca, which is Misano di Gera d'Adda, and I have the habit of looking at my fellow citizens' faces when I make a public speech. One of the major problems of the Roman Palaces is that, while the citizens are lucky enough to see us, we cannot see their expressions on the contrary and therefore we cannot understand whether or not they agree with what we say. When we leave a city council session, we go to the village bar, not the buvette, where we must immediately give our citizens an account of what we do. If we have done something good, we are lucky to see in their eyes and smiles gratitude and respect. If we've done something wrong, big problems are born. Not after a few months or years we suffer the consequences, but immediately. Those of you who have never managed a small town, a small town in the province - I am not referring to cities as large as Florence, to understand us - cannot even imagine the miracles that can be done when people feel part of a community [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] , when citizens cooperate with municipal administrations, although they have the right to receive adequate services for the taxes they pay. You, who have been part of previous governments, have mortified our local communities. You even created the Province from the Municipalities, destroying Provinces and Municipalities, without eliminating the former, but leaving them without money and employees. Senator Monti, to defend the country from the Troika, you destroyed the municipalities. You have even abolished the council members through the cuts, because an alderman who received 100 euros of compensation per month was a serious waste and a serious damage to the Italian public debt. Here, however, the cuts have never been made, and we will start making them now. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] Today I am the spokesperson of many of my fellow Legist mayors, but also of many other political colors, and of those mayors who have their own representatives in parties that are not in the majority, who see in us a hope after years of crazy cuts, demential constraints and a bureaucracy that is now tragicomic. They are mayors with whom I have worked very constructively over the years, beyond the political colours and for the sake of our citizens alone, which I hope will also be done here, even if I doubt it for some. For weeks, however, there has been a new air in the country, an air of hope and optimism. People are with us, encouraging us on the street and letting us know that they are on our side. [[Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] Citizens have chosen who to leave and who to bring into the future. I realize that it is difficult for some of you to be put in a corner. What I do not understand is the lack of respect that you continue to have towards us, because in this way you offend the millions of people who elected us. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] I want us parliamentarians and you ministers to come out of these Roman palaces and we can go to the bar - it will be in Rome or in a village - and look people in the eye to see if we are working well or badly. [[Comments of Senator Patriarch]] The citizens will finally, after so many years, be proud of their rulers. President Conte, Ministers, I wish you good work. Always use common sense. You have a great power in your hand: the power to make citizens sad or happy. Learn from past mistakes and use power with great caution. Good work, everyone. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is probably between today and tomorrow that your Government will leave, and it is not inappropriate to recall that, if this happens, it is because of the merit and meaning of the institutions and the State of President Silvio Berlusconi, who has responded to the vetoes and prejudices of a political force with his belonging and generosity towards this country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Here, however, our availability ends. Now you must gain our confidence provision by provision, in the interest of the country and the citizens. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You spoke of a new language and a new methodology. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, allow me to say that I have listened to a lot of demagogy in tones and content. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You have set yourself up as a defender of the people. It seemed to me to be a tribune, but the tribune identifies citizens' problems and offers solutions. You gave us slogans without telling us where, when and with what resources you intend to deal with the emergencies of this country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to focus on two points in order to highlight the contradictions of your Government and its programme. I was very surprised. You're a man of law, you're a jurist. How do you feel that, by extending the prescription, they can reduce the time of the processes? Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this is something that is not standing. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Comments of Senator Donno]] I introduce myself: I am the rapporteur for the reform of the statute of limitations which, in 2004, resolved it in its present form and we have done so in the interests not of a citizen, but of all citizens. Before the reform - you are a jurist and you know it - the law, in fact, was not the same for everyone, because it was the judges who established, with the granting of general attenuators, what trials were prescribed and which did not. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We have always considered that the judge must decide whether or not a person is responsible; he must quantify the amount of the sentence, but he cannot decide whether the crime is prescribed or not, because this is the task of the law. This made the so-called short prescription. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if today's trials do not end immediately with a short prescription, your reform will never end. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Then I want to tell you something else. I didn't have the pleasure of knowing you, nor, on my own responsibility - and I make amends for it - had I ever heard of you. When, however, his name was proposed, I had a whisper of hope, because you are a man of the South, you are a man who comes from my Apulia. I thought, therefore, that Puglia and the Mezzogiorno could find respect and consideration in the programme of the President-in-Office of the Council. My hope has increased when he considered - contrary to what his vice-president Di Maio has always supported, namely that there was no need for a Ministry for the Mezzogiorno, as there were other ministers working in that direction - to set up, even without a portfolio, the Ministry for the South. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the disappointment was great when you did not spend a word on how to deal with the problems of the Mezzogiorno, the Mezzogiorno which gave birth to it, the Mezzogiorno which gave a political force that supports it with a huge consensus. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You have returned to a contract that says nothing about the Mezzogiorno. Perhaps you believe that the income of citizenship will be sufficient to give answers to the southern ones? I believe that this is highly offensive to women and men in the South, who want their rights represented and do not want alms from anyone. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and the Sudanese senator]] I hope, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that you, in your reply, will reassure us and offer us hope for the Mezzogiorno. And I hope you want to review your position on justice as well. Mr President, the reduction in the timing of the trials is achieved by decriminalisation, by priority in the exercise of criminal proceedings; by restructuring the judicial offices, and by not extending the limitation period. It is clear that the State has the right to prosecute, but the citizen, in turn, has the right to know within what time it must be judged. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u61	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to welcome the President-in-Office of the Council here, on my own behalf and, if I may, also the province from which I come, which is also of origin. I welcome you on behalf of all the Movimento 5 Stars. I'd like to welcome all the members of your government. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The wait for the formation of this Executive was a little longer than expected and, indeed, longer than we had hoped for. In the end, however, the Government of Change - and I stress that it is the Government of Change - was formed in compliance with the popular will which was clearly expressed in the elections of 4 March. And today you're here to ask for trust. I have enjoyed your statement over the past few days, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on the day you were appointed by the President of the Republic to form the new Government. On that occasion, he expressed his wish to become the defender of the Italian people. And I believe that this phrase has affected not only me but, in a sense, also the collective imagination, so much so that it has been used as a title by many media. I have asked myself the following question in recent days, and also today: why do so many Italians feel the need to have a lawyer defender and, therefore, why have they recognized themselves in that sentence? The reason, Mr President, has been well explained by you over the past few days, when you presented the programme and the content of the government contract. You have rightly referred to Article 1 of our Constitution. He spoke of social rights, of work, of minimum hourly wages: things that have been forgotten in recent years. He spoke of the typing and control of new forms of work, which must no longer lead to exploitation; of opportunities that can arise from sharing economy; of giving voice and help to women and young people; he spoke of combating poverty, income and citizenship pensions and overcoming the Fornero law. He explained to us the desire to adopt policies in favour of families and the increase in births and the need to increase the security of Italians. He spoke to us about a state that must be closer to its citizens and that, therefore, must treat them as such and not as subjects, that must be fairer, fairer and more supportive, with a tax system that is not vexatory to some and permissive to others; and, if the latter are large multinationals, this happens more frequently. The tax system - he said this morning - is not up to date and needs to be simplified and made more efficient in order to widen the tax base and, at the same time, reduce the tax burden. This, however, must always be in accordance with our constitutional predictions. You have described your idea of justice, which must be quick and efficient. He told us about class action, certainty of punishment and civil causes that cannot and must not last so many years, because this hinders development and investment, creating damage to both citizens and businesses. He spoke about our landscape, artistic and cultural heritage. He spoke of the environment, the green economy and the circular economy, as well as the need to move from the fossil era to that of renewable energies. Again, he expressed the will of his government to fight the mafias. And, when you said that, almost the whole House felt the natural desire to stand up. You told us you wanted to fight, with your government, widespread lawlessness, corruption and crimes in the public administration, including by providing for new investigative subjects such as - for example - undercover agents, or the Daspus for the corrupt. It has also given great importance to the reform of the statute of limitations and to the conflict of interests. He then spoke to us about public health, about a health service that must be universal and of quality; able to give answers to citizens, without these having to wait months to be able to do a diagnostic examination that can save their lives, or that they are forced on long journeys of hope for better care. This morning he also said that health expenditure must be increased and, at the same time, more efficiency must be given to the whole sector so that resources are not wasted; all this - of course - in agreement with the regions. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I believe that, by presenting the government contract, you have told us about the dreams, but also about the problems of millions of Italians, who have in fact been ignored or underestimated for years. I believe that these are precisely the reasons why many of our fellow countrymen wanted a defense attorney. This, in my opinion, is the reason for the success of that sentence. The Italians want to be defended by the bad politics, the bad business, the indifference, the superficiality and the indolence of some among those who administer the public thing. They want a government that puts the needs of the majority of citizens and not those of the elite at the centre of its action. They want an Executive with the authority to protect the country's interests in all European and international forums. You, the Government and the majority who will support you have the strength, the will and the ability to complete all the points of the Government contract and to improve the quality of life of Italians. You have the determination to bring Italy back to its place, that is, that of a great, strong, just and supportive country. I am convinced that this Executive will make us feel proud to be Italian, because - as our beloved President of the Republic Sandro Pertini said - I believe in the Italian people. He is a generous, hardworking people, he does not ask for work, a home and to be able to heal the health of his loved ones. He does not therefore ask for paradise on earth. He asks what every people should have. President Conte, good work to you and all the members of the government. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u63	Senator Bossi Umberto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u64	Mr President, I would like to say a few things which are more tactical than strategic but which have their importance. As far as the income of citizenship is concerned, I think it is unthinkable to hand over to employment centres the control of such a law, because they exist only on paper; this mechanism has been working since the old employment office. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In other words, the company hires workers and then gives their name and surname to the employment centre, which has only notary tasks and therefore cannot control such an important and expensive law. Don't joke about it. Before making the citizenship income, we must do the control tool, otherwise we will find ourselves in a very negative situation. Another important point concerns pensions. As we know, the so-called Fornero law has affected two types of pensions: retirement pensions, by removing the quotas to which they were linked, and old-age pensions, given to citizens who have not worked enough, i.e. contributions to the INPS for at least thirty-five years. The Fornero law has stated that you reach the retirement pension at sixty-six years and seven months. Now, if you really want to change that idea, you have to remember that the so-called Tremonti law, made in order to safeguard the INPS coffers, provides - fortunately - that every year the increase in the age for the old-age pension is linked to the life expectancy established by ISTAT; therefore, the automatic effects of the Tremonti law on the old-age pension must be stopped. It would not be the first because it has already been done, but it is something to be done immediately, one of the first things to do, otherwise everyone is talking about reforms that would not be possible at all. The government would arrive at the beginning of the new year with an increase in retirement age... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u65	I would ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u66	Bossi Umberto (L-SP). I'm done, ma'am. [[Applause from the L-SP, FIBP, M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u67	Senator Unterberger is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, our Group has as its common denominator the defence and enhancement of the special autonomy of linguistic minorities and the strong adherence to European values. Unfortunately, in the government contract between League and Movimento 5 Stars, linguistic minorities and special autonomy are not even mentioned. In the meeting of two weeks ago, we stressed this lack and greeted ourselves with a commitment to deepen the issues related to special autonomy. Therefore, we appreciate the passage you have devoted to special self-government today and we will carefully evaluate the measures your Government will want to take to resolve the issues we have raised. We note that the new Minister for Regional Affairs has already stated that the Regions must obtain more skills to be closer to the population and that our special self-governments can serve as a model for the regions that have already requested it. At this point I would like to thank the Led Governments, and in particular Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri, for their willingness and respect for our autonomy. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]] The second point on which our attention is focused is Europe. We appreciate that both the government contract and its statements today contain a clear recognition of membership of the European Union and the Atlantic Pact. However, we have seen with concern the debate on the role of Italy in the European Union in recent days. Above all we South Tyrolean people feel a zipper between German and Italian culture, between the Central European and the Mediterranean; great cultures that in our territory live together in harmony and we South Tyrolean try to draw the best from their encounter. Italy, together with Germany and France, is one of the founding countries of the European Union; a project of peace and friendship between peoples that must be strengthened and stabilized. This does not alter the need for improvements for which we must commit ourselves. He is right, Mr President, when he says that Europe must play its part in managing migratory flows, on which Italy has all too often been left alone. But one thing is the legitimate and necessary criticism, another thing is the questioning of membership of the European Union. On this yesterday President Napolitano addressed to President Alberti Casellati a message full of concerns that we share. Moreover - let me say this - the Italian public debt was not created by the European partners. It is wrong to expect reductions to be made to our debt. The other countries also have a public opinion that will certainly not agree with the idea of paying Italian debts. It is we, therefore, who must commit ourselves to lowering our debt and to maintaining the European agreements, which are a guarantee of the savings of the Italians. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, financial stability is the key word for our reflections on the contract between the forces supporting your Executive. You have proposed many things: with some we fully agree, such as the increased protection of the environment and waters; swifter and more efficient justice; the extension of class action; the certainty of punishment and the fight against corruption. I also appreciated your passage on the tightening of penalties for violence against women. On other points we have concerns, such as the questioning of major works or the elimination of proportionality in the crime of self-defense. And even the last idea of Minister Di Maio on the non foreclosure of the first house seems to us to be discarded: the effect would be that no bank would give more a mortgage for the purchase of the first house. Our greatest concern, however, is the economic cover: your contract, unfortunately, is not a contract to the German, where the measures that the Government wants to take are carefully elaborated. These proposals are, however, largely general. I fear that your deficit spending theory, as well as being in conflict with Italian commitments to Europe, is not the right path. There is a great risk that debt will go out of control and that the cost of this will fall on our children. As you said in your speech, lowering the tax burden on businesses and citizens is a fundamental issue. However, we have doubts as to whether the flat tax can be realised for the important costs that such a measure could have for the state accounts. Furthermore, there is a risk that wealth will shift from the less well-off to the wealthier. The lower tax revenues would decrease the financial commitment on the entire welfare system. All this seems to me to be in sharp contrast to your wish to eliminate inequalities between citizens. As a woman who has always fought for equal opportunities, I can only express my disappointment at some shortcomings. Among the Ministers there are only five women, with a proportion that does not even reach that of women in Parliament: this is not the right signal to promote equal opportunities, as enshrined in Article 51 of the Constitution. We all complain that Italy has one of the lowest birth rates in Europe. In order to increase the birth rate, women's employment must be encouraged. As the data from other European countries tell us, where women's employment is strong, the highest birth rates are recorded. All the obstacles that discourage women from creating jobs must be removed and the family commitment between men and women distributed more fairly. Unfortunately, only women who have to be able to reconcile family times with working times are explicitly included in your programme. The men take over only a possible separation, when the children must be placed in an equal way between mother and father, obviously without a contribution to the maintenance by the latter. It is also important for future reform of the Fornero law to increase the number of employees and therefore taxpayers. The greatest growth margins are in the women's sector, as you also pointed out, Mr Conte. Otherwise, we will need more and more foreign labour to keep our pension system in place. We must promote the integration of foreigners who live regularly in our country, who work and pay taxes. School and kindergartens are the main places of integration. For this reason we hope that the latter will also be free for foreigners with a regular residence permit. President Conte, with your government contract, you have created great expectations in the population. Let's hope you can keep at least some of your promises. We in the Autonomy Group will make concrete proposals and judge the Government by facts and individual measures. Good job. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u69	She's enlisted to speak Senator Segre. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u70	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, by taking the floor for the first time in this House, I cannot help but thank the President of the Republic, Sergio Mattarella, who decided to recall the eightieth anniversary of the enactment of the racial, racist laws of 1938 by making a surprising choice: by naming an old lady for life as a senator, a person among the very few still living in Italy who carries the number of Auschwitz on his arm... [[The Assembly stands. Live and sustained applause]] ...he carries on his arm the number of Auschwitz and has the task not only of reminding, but also of giving, in some way, the word to those who eighty years ago did not have it; to those thousands of Italians, about 40,000, belonging to the small Jewish minority, who suffered the humiliation of being expelled from schools, from the professions, from society, that persecution that prepared the Italian shoah of 1943-1945, which unfortunately was also an Italian crime, of Italian fascism. Above all, one should ideally give the word to those many who, unlike me, have not returned from the extermination camps, who were killed for the sole fault of being born, who have no grave, who are ashes in the wind. Saving them from oblivion means not only honoring a historical debt to those of our fellow citizens at the time, but also helping today's Italians to reject the temptation of indifference towards the injustices and sufferings that surround us [[Applause from the M5S, FI-BP, PD and Mixed-LEU Groups]] To not anesthetize consciences, to be more vigilant, more aware of the responsibility that each one has towards others. In those extermination camps other minorities, besides the Jews, were annihilated. Among these I would like to remind today the members of the Roma and Sinti populations, who initially aroused our envy as prisoners because in their barracks the families were left united; but soon the envy followed the horror, because one night they were all brought to the gas and the next day in those empty barracks there was a ghostly silence. For this reason I welcome with great conviction the appeal that has addressed to me today to the Republic, Professor Melloni. I refuse to think that today our democratic civilization can be soiled by special laws against the nomadic peoples. If that happens, I will fight it with all the energy I have left. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-LEU Groups]] I am going to carry out the mandate of a senator well aware of my total political inexperience and trusting much in the patience that all of them will want to use towards an elderly grandmother, as I am. I will try to make a modest contribution to parliamentary activity by drawing inspiration from what I have learned. I have known the status of clandestine and asylum seeker; I have known the prison; I have known the labor worker, having been child slave labor in a satellite factory of the extermination camp. Having never had party memberships, I will carry out my senator activity without political ties and responding only to my conscience. Only one obedience will guide me: fidelity to the vital principles and advanced programs - still largely unimplemented - dictated by the Republican Constitution [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed-LEU Groups.]] In this spirit, I believe that the most consistent choice with the reasons for my appointment as a senator for life is to opt today for an abstention vote on trust in the government. I will evaluate the Government's proposals and choices at a time, without prejudice, and I will join in thinking about the interest of the Italian people and keeping faith in the values that have guided me throughout my life. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP, PD, Misto-LEU groups and from the government benches.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u71	Thank you, Senator Secret, for the life lesson you wanted to give us all. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u72	He's enlisted to speak Senator Grasso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, citizens listening, the intentions of this new Government and its political substance were already widely known before your speech, Mr Conte, partly because you did not provide the House with any news about the timing or resources with which you intend to turn into concrete acts what remains a declaration of intent. In the program that she has illustrated - that you insist on calling a government contract - Movimento 5 Stars and League have drawn an idea of Country that will see us, here in Parliament and outside, convincedly to the opposition. You have started badly, very badly: the statements of Minister Fontana on rainbow families and Minister Salvini on the phenomenon of immigration describe, better than any contract, your idea of civil rights. We expect years, assuming that this Government exceeds the first budget law, in which we will have to fight with every force the attempt to take back steps on civil rights. It seems to understand that we must thank the luck that civil rights are outside the contract if we do not make immediate and hasty steps towards the Middle Ages, and that we must fear, as with telephone companies, the contractual updates to come. We will not accept the shortcut for which social rights would conflict with civil rights. We will not accept the silence of the Minister of the Interior about the execution of a trade unionist of twenty-nine years in Calabria just because he is a regular immigrant, with a residence permit; only today, after more than two days, you, Mr President, thanks to a passage in your speech has put an end to a shameful silence. We will not accept the idea that in this House each of us can save tens of thousands of euros by flat tax, because the flat tax is only for the rich, with the result that we have to cut the funds for health and public education. We will ensure that yet another injustice is not perpetrated against the less well-off classes, an increase in indirect taxation in order to make cash, which even until a few days ago authoritative representatives of your Government assumed. We will not accept the idea that a country is safer where the number of weapons in circulation increases, where the defence is entrusted to individual citizens and not to the State. We will not accept the bond of mandate, because each parliamentarians is and must remain a free person to express their values and ideals that they are called to represent and not a buttoncracker at the orders of a leader or a SrL. We advocate and defend another idea of Italy, a country where the rights are truly for all and the duties are respected by every citizen and citizen, without distinction; a country where the tax system respects the principle of progressiveness and the redistribution of income allows everyone to actually enjoy the rights enshrined in the Constitution, the right to study the right to health; a country where the right to work, a job with a just pay and the protection due are guaranteed; a country where gender equality is guaranteed at every level, while in the composition of your Government it has not been held in any consideration. A country in which the fight against crime is tackled in a systemic, serious way, finally releasing real resources, beginning with the Mezzogiorno; a country where those born in Italy and who attend a school cycle can become a citizen to all intents and purposes, with the rights and duties provided by the Constitution (a law that with regret was dropped at the end of the last legislature); a country where there are still respect for every diversity, mutual trust, solidarity towards those who are weaker, attention to every fragility. A country in which the State is not just you, as unwisely has been affirmed by one of its two dante lawsuits, President Conte, because the State we are all, all the citizens, the territory we inhabit, the laws that guide us, the institutions at every level. You have cleverly fueled social anger, made use of fears, worsened the climate of civil coexistence in our country; you have gained consensus indicating a series of enemies: first the dumb South, then the caste, migrants, international plotts, the press. You have said everything and the opposite of everything on every subject; you have threatened complaints for those who said that you would be allies; you have extended the times of government formation, as if this had no repercussions on the country's image, its credibility, citizens' savings, access to credit for businesses. That is the basis for your presentation in this House. Already in these few days you have had to go back on many of the triumphant promises of the electoral campaign. We already know that, in the face of a contract that is a book of dreams, you will begin to blame those who preceded you, the international ties, your government allies, us of the opposition, fate, the weather and perhaps even the invasion of grasshoppers. We are certain that many of your promises will remain so; of some we hope and will make sure that they never come true. I cannot imagine anything more vile than discrimination between children in access to kindergarten, for example, which you have not failed to write. At this moment you enjoy the consensus of the public, the favor of the media, the expectations that you have been able to create in the country. The electorate, however, has shown that in a few months you can move from broad consensus, even wider than your present, to burning defeats. You now have the responsibility to lead the country: we hope and hope that you will be able to do so. Allow us, however, some doubts, and not only for the team put on the field, but for the statements, so conflicting among you, that we have heard you speak in the parliamentary classrooms of the last parliamentary term, in the election campaign, in the almost three months of difficult construction of the government. One issue on all: the European Union. You still do not understand what your horizon is, and so you have changed and straightened out so many opinions over the last few months. Italy certainly does not need uncertainties, but eventually determination to give continuity to its role as a founding country. The idea that we have of Europe is that of a Union of solidarity, not of the sum of sovereignisms masters at home. And it is not just an abstract idea, but economic and social policies that derive from that principle. It is not enough to repeat the word change in every sentence, also because it is a two-faced word. It can change for the better, but it can change for the worse; and that is what we fear. The new Minister of the Interior, who has the undisputed primacy of having created a diplomatic incident with Tunisia before even entering the Viminal, not later than three days ago declared, to further demonstrate his solidarity sensitivity, that for migrants the parcel is over. The only wrap to be finished is yours. Now you will have to replace the easy Facebook directs and the like account with government acts. Congratulations. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u74	You are registered to speak Senator La Russa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers of the Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I believe that it is right that we should immediately clarify the position of the Brothers of Italy: we are not part of this majority, we will not give the vote of confidence to this Government. But we believe and believe that we are a party of patriots, a party that puts national interest before any other topic. I would like to take advantage, Mr President, of a small note. You have used 21, 25 times the word "Country" but you have never used the word "Nation" and not once the word "Patria" [[Applause from the FdI Group]] , in this, very much like Gentiloni Silveri and the Ministers and Presidents of the Council who preceded it. It's not a good sign for change; I have to tell you and remember. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] You see, we will try, as patriots, to operate without preclusions, but indeed with the hope that this Government, which defines itself as change, will really be so. But ads aren't enough, we can't trust ads, because we've heard so many ads over the years. Then, for my personal history, I may have heard more than others. After the announcements we need the certainty of what the Government does. We will look at the facts, not at the announcements, and less badly because today's announcements - partly because of charity, which are also extremely shared and shared - reflect - and you have all my human understanding, Mr President - the difficulty you visibly encounter in trying not to displease either of the two parties to the programme, in the desperate attempt to remain in balance on positions which a contract has put together but which, at the start, are often, if not diametrically opposed, very different. And so she, who certainly has a first-class cultural and personal background, had to imitate La Palice. You said that it is against the mafia, that it is against crime, that it is not racist and - blessed God - I would like to see a President of the Council who comes here and says he is in favour of the mafia, crime or racism. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]] This is of absolute evidence. And he had to - but I do deserve it - boat himself with skill, copying a little'some characters I esteem, left, who had the honour to preside over this Council, which they said 'but also '. You said "even" 51 times and "but" 9 or 10 times, I don't remember well because I didn't count them exactly, because you said yes to NATO but also to Russia, yes to the Italian interest but also to the interest of Europe. And he said: let's try to make them compatible. This is the challenge on which we hope you will be successful. You said well: we must try to make Italian interests compatible with European interests. But this is an announcement. In order to become a fact one must not be supine, as previous governments have been, to the Diktats of Europe. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]] And then we will take due account of you and examine each of your behaviors. You said yes to flat tax, that is to say to the single tax, but you immediately said that there will be more fixed rates, which is the opposite of flat tax. Then I ask you to collect the proposal of Brothers of Italy: at the first Council of Ministers fix immediately at 15% at least the tax for the increase of income, that is for the new income, incremental income (if you want I define it exactly as we did), the new income that every enterprise, every craftsman, every trader produces. At least that. It doesn't cost anything. And so you silence the voice of those who say that flat tax only serves the rich and not the poor. When we have the opportunity to apply it, they will understand that it will serve mainly to the less well-off to find work, but in the meantime we do immediately what can be done without costs. [[Applause from the FdI and L-SP groups.]] We're testing you on this, too. You said no to corruption. Of course, who says yes to corruption? Again, you said something I'd like you to explain better, but maybe it's my fault I'm not informed. He said we'll give the Daspus (the Daspus or the Daspus, I don't know whether it's male or female and how the VAR hasn't yet been understood if it's male or female) to the corrupt. Aren't we gonna let them go to the stadium? I don't know exactly what that means. I think the corrupt have to put them in jail. Don't give them the Daspus. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] I also listened carefully to you on immigration. In this case too, you have tried skillfully to put yourself on a balance position. One thing is missing, dear President: you must say if you agree on the naval blockade, and I ask you, and if you agree on hot commercials outside Italy, where the carts of death leave, because only by not letting the carts of death leave you avoid the deaths that otherwise increase with a policy of false reception. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]] Mr President, I listened to Senator Bellanova and listened to President Grasso make a list of things. When I listen to them, I would like to suggest that you correct your concept that there are no longer any differences at least in the value of political forces. Listen to them. I don't know if they're right, I don't mean to be offensive, but there's still a valuable abyss between those who sit in this part of the hemicycle and those who sit on the other side. [[Ironic applause from the PD Group.]] Find the difference, an abyss. FADELI (PD). Bravo! THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Thank you for your applause, thank you. I said I don't know who's right. The applause I see on the left has few reasons, if it is true that in their natural reservoir of votes, which was not only Central Italy but also the South, they lost everything: there will be a reason, there will be a reason! [[Applause from the FdI Group]] VALENT (PD). Don't teach us! THE RUSSIAN (FdI). But why are you angry? I said maybe you're right, and you've also been angry... Senator La Russa, finish. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I am also waiting for another answer: the question of presidentialism. I want to know whether this Government, in addition to dealing with productivity and all the issues that previous colleagues have pointed out to it, really wants to give Italy institutions of direct democracy, the proposed referendum, but above all the direct election of the Head of State, who marries with greater regional autonomy. A very important answer for us in that path in becoming that you indicated in the final part of your speech. These days Philip Roth is celebrated a lot, one of the greatest writers... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Just a few more seconds, ma'am, I'm done. His best-known book "Pastorale americana" is an inspiration for me: she makes an Italian pastoral, and she will have our friendship and support if, unlike the protagonist of that book, she manages to avoid a disaster that was familiar there and that here, if we follow other paths, would be national. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u76	Senator Renzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u77	Mr President of the Senate, Mr President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Council of Ministers will not have our confidence, but he will always have our respect. We say this because we are convinced that, in the abyss of values that Senator La Russa has just certified, there are elements that must keep us all together: respect for the roles of the Government and oppositions. With the oath, you, Mr President, represent us too; you are also our President of the Council of Ministers, and we will always respect you, in this House and out of here. We will respect you outside this House where you will bring the tricolour in the next few days to the G7 in Canada; we will respect you when, at the end of the month, you represent us at the Brussels European Council; we will defend you and respect you when you speak on behalf of all of us at the UN General Assembly. For this reason, too, we were quite surprised by his reference to opposition; but we want to take it seriously from the first minute. We assure you that our opposition will never, as happened in the last legislature, occupy the benches of the Government in a provocative tone; it will never occupy the chair of the President of the Senate; it will never insult on social media the Ministers of the Republic [[Applause from the PD Group]] ; it will never attack the institutions of our country to the cry of "Mafia, Mafia, Mafia" that the Government of the Republic, in January 2015, had to receive from a parliamentary group in Strasbourg, giving breath to those prejudices that against us so much part of Europe continues to feed. So, Mr President-in-Office, good work. By the way, with your presidency, you can clearly demonstrate that part of the story of the XVII legislature was false: you are an unelected Premier, I could say a colleague [[Applause from the PD Group),]] But no one is denying you legitimacy, as happened in the 17th legislature, because there is no reason to deny legitimacy. You represent a government that didn't show up together in front of the voters. Senator La Russa, we accept all the controversies, but it is a fact that in this House, alongside a more or less shared position of the Movimento 5 Stars, there is today the presence of a triple position on the vote, abstention and the opposite vote of those who presented themselves together in front of the voters. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Before you morale yourself, look in the mirror and see how in front of the voters you have said the opposite of what you are saying here. You have said that the third Republic has begun, but the eighty-nine days of theater we have attended make us think that the first Republic continues, I say only for the verbal armament that you have used: "the two ovens" is an expression that we have not heard since the nineties and let me say it, there is a continuous cultural reference to some expressions that I do not know if they can finally bring to the government of change, but in the meantime the vocabulary has changed and I consider it a step forward. Some expressions have marked me: what in the XVII legislature was the Government of the unelected from today you must call the Government of the citizens; what in the XVII legislature was inciucius from today you must call contract; what in the XVII legislature was called triumph of the partycracy you must call parliamentary democracy; what in the XVII legislature was called condon you must call fiscal peace; the Vice President of the Council with delegation - important - to the Viminale (good work, Minister Salvini), that in the XVII legislature was called a man who betrayed the alliance that had elected him, in the XVIII legislature you must call citizen who helps the Government to overcome the phase of crisis. I don't know if you'll change the country, but in the meantime you've calmed the political climate and I consider it a positive fact. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Why do we vote against? Mr President, I would like to say this to the President and to the President for his reasons: because this contract is written with the nice ink. It is a contract guaranteed by an empty cheque. The flat tax is $60 billion, if we're serious about it, if we fake it, it's okay. Yesterday someone said "we make the flat tax finally for the enterprises" but there is since 1973 for the enterprises. The point is if you do what you promised. If you do it, it costs 60 billion. Congratulations. Not only that, but do not come, President-in-Office of the Council, to tell us here in this House that you are making the intervention on gold pensions, because simply for some experience of the past, if you introduce a particular taxation or at least a contribution of solidarity for pensions that exceed 5,000 euros net, as per contract (we have read and read the contract, we all have to read it, we do not have to be ironic, because it will be the one on which we will declare the failure or success - we will see - of this legislative experience) if you really do this intervention on pensions that exceed 5,000 euro net, which you also recalled in its introduction, you recover 110 million euros, which is not bad. But if you make the flat tax for 30,000 golden pensioners you spend 760 million euros. So let's agree: either we ask for the solidarity contribution or we make the flat tax, because we cannot make fun of citizens as we risk doing on citizenship income. When people come in line at the offices to get citizenship income is because they wait for a real change that you promised, we didn't (we also lost, but we didn't promise them anyway). This also applies to ILVA: do we give 20,000 people a job, as Senator Bellanova reminded us, or do we give a citizenship income? The Fornero law is fine on talk shows, but abolishing the Fornero law costs, if that's okay, 12 billion, if it goes wrong 20. You put five in the contract, we'll see in the budget. I could continue with vaccines, TAP, TAV, but there is one fundamental point why the no, and I know I motivate it on the basis of a political consideration (in times of anti-politics I give myself this luxury): it is not even the contract, it is not the precedent of the XVII legislature, it is that we are something else from you. An important part of public opinion believes that tomorrow's bipolarism is in those benches, we think that tomorrow's coalition is in those benches and that the alternative is radically another. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You are two very different political forces, although some character traits make you similar. Someone entered Parliament in 1992 by shaking a noose. In 2013, those who entered us more banally agitated a can opener for tuna, but both used verbal aggression techniques, in particular on social networks, that leave me puzzled, that will never see us protagonists. We too could make the list and screening of the people who are on that side of the table and point out how some of you have hired relatives as purses, as some of you have used the prescription, as some of you have had problems with party financing, unpathetic interceptions, problems with the tax system, but we will not allow ourselves to use the method of verbal aggression that you have had because we are something else and we are on Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group]] President of the Council, you turn to your right and you have the Vice President of the Council whose political strength sits in Parliament with Farage. On his left he has the Vice President of the Council who sits in Parliament with Marine Le Pen. We are another thing because on justice - good luck to the fellow-citizen Minister of Justice - you have a totally different idea from us, because we are for justice that is guaranteeing and not for justiceism. [[Applause from the PD Group]] When we hear Davigo's name, we respond with Beccaria and Enzo Tortora. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We have another vision of justice than you. We have a completely different view of rights. You said the rights failed. That is not the case: we have dealt with the third sector, food waste, international cooperation - in some cases we have done so together - and civil rights. There is, however - and I finish - a double thought that I would like to entrust to you, President of the Council and, through the President of the Senate, to the two Vice Presidents of the Council as leaders of the main political forces. I am not impressed that the vice-president of the Council and Interior Minister Salvini has chosen to start from the events of immigration. I would have been surprised otherwise, but it also strikes me that it used the expression "Package" is over. Minister Salvini or, better, political leader Salvini has accustomed us to these expressions. I do not share them because I think - as Mr Salvini knows - that there is no end to the jungle for those who cross the desert, risks dying at sea and sees in the camps opportunities for rape and violence. I don't think it can be called a "socket." You say as the Minister's first expression: "The package is over." I say as a first expression as a Member of Parliament that I want the names of Mor and Modou to resound in this Parliament, two Senegalese boys killed in Florence while I was mayor, because it is a wound that is tattooed in the heart. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Vice President Salvini, from father to father - you used this beautiful expression - I ask you to be careful with words because you are no longer just political leaders; you, Vice President of the Council, represent a country today. We cannot afford to animate diplomatic crisis issues with Tunisia when it needs a strong Italy in the Mediterranean; we cannot afford to animate controversy and create an incendiary climate. Vice President of the Council, give us a hand. She's been leading public order for a few days. You are responsible for the safety of all of us. You speak as a father knowing that the children listen to us. The vice-president of the Di Maio Council said an emblematic phrase: "The state is us." My colleague Grasso criticized you. I don't think that phrase is happy, but I would like to say - perhaps I will surprise you and certainly am surprised at me - that I agree with the principle, if I have understood it. I disagree with the phrase "L'état c'est moi" by Louis XIV. It is true that in the last period you have made history at least eight times in eighty - nine days and it is quite difficult to keep track. [[Applause from the PD Group]] But you're not the state, Vice President Di Maio. You are the power today and in this you are right to say that it is your turn. You have no alibi left than what you have to do. You represent the power, the government, the establishment today. I cordially wish you good luck. We will do our duty of opposition. We will begin next week, or when the Commissions are ready, by summoning the Minister of Defense to the Copasir headquarters, to clarify points that she knows and that I believe are important to be known also by others. We will not discount you but we will always be on your side when you defend the interest of the country, because before the divisions of part there is Italy and Italy needs truth and clarity and not controversy and election campaign. [[Applause from the PD Group. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u78	Senator Pillon is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, once again we are here to listen to lessons of moral superiority from those who, not only politically but even personally and family, have handed over our country to the multinationals of friends. [[Protests from the PD Group. Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] By those who have left Italian citizens alone in the face of the crisis; by those who have imposed their ideologies against the majority of Italians and, still today, occupy military manu state televisions, paid by citizens, used for political killing against opponents. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] Senator Renzi, do you remember the banner that recited "Renzi" will we remember? Well, the Italians remembered: first with the referendum and then with the political and administrative elections. It has not escaped the most acute analysts, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that the root causes of the economic crisis that we are still experiencing are not only economic but are first and foremost valuable. The last governments of the country, as I said earlier, have stubbornly pursued individualist and secularist policies, leading the Italians to a colossal deficit of hope. It is more essential than ever for this Government, Mr President, to be able to help our fellow citizens to regain the reasons for hope and thus to engage in the return to value from which a new and more solid economic recovery will ensue. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] In order to achieve this ambitious result, it was essential to change the way of policy, method and substance. In both cases, it really seems to us that your Government, Prime Minister, is leaving on the right foot. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] In the method, starting from a meeting between different political forces, but which also had the opportunity to appreciate each other in the battle to stop the absurd constitutional reform attempted by the Renzi Government [[Applause from the L-SP Group)]] a clear strategy to change Italy is identified. An alternative strategy to the impositions of an increasingly stepmother Europe, of a globalization of multinationals, of a superpower of finance that aims to reduce Italians to consumers, when not in mere gears. On the substance, Mr President, the government contract is rich and appreciable. I shall confine myself here to commending the provisions laid down for the family. I think of our families, the real engine of our country, our homeland. I think of the mothers and dads who accompany their children to school every day and then go to work; of the adoptive families or who would like to adopt, stopped by the disaster of the Commission international adoptions blocked for over three years by the Democratic Party. I am thinking of families with the disabled and the elderly; large families; families affected by the crisis or widowhood; earthquake families still waiting for answers; separate families; family businesses. Well, you did predict a minister, and that minister. Well you have done to predict the tax fairness of the flat tax modulated on the family factor to give justice to fathers and mothers of the family. You have done well to put the safety of our families at the centre, because each of us wants to know that while we are here in the Senate discussing the future, our family, our children, our wives and our husbands are safe. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] Very well you have done to bravely address the issue of birth, because without children there is no future. Let me suggest, Mr President, that the causes of demographic winter are first cultural and only after economic. Very well you have done to propose a family-friendly justice, providing the materially shared custody for the children of separated couples, as it is sacrosanct right of children, provided by the UN Convention, to grow up with their mother and their father. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] In this sense, it will be appropriate to better guarantee the right of parents to decide on the education of their children, as provided for in Article 30 of our Constitution. Only in this way, starting from our wonderful families and then going up, from the local and regional communities, will your Government help the Italians to find that hope and that valuable recovery that our fellow citizens have every right to see realized. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] Finally, let me remind you that the true cultural and social roots of our country are those of Christians. We cannot think, as someone does, of keeping Christian values by cutting off our roots. Gentlemen of the Government, we will be happy to cooperate with you. Good work and may God bless Italy. [[Applause from the L-SP Group. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u80	Senator Ronzulli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u81	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking for the first time in this House and I am doing so in the awareness of the exceptional nature of the moment. The government to which the Senate is preparing to give confidence today is in fact an exception, that is, an anomaly with respect to normal rules, if not democracy, certainly politics. It's an anomaly for many reasons. This is not the majority that came to the elections, it is not the majority chosen by the Italians and it is not even the majority that won the polls. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] A majority which - I hope only for a period of time - is in the government, but which does not represent it and which - I say this for the benefit of the new Minister for Economic Development and Labour and Social Policy - is not the State. This government - I repeat - is an anomaly, because in every statement it expresses a political intent, while, for half of its members, it is made up of technicians. A government chaired by a technician, who never showed up in the elections and was never elected. I mean, another premier not elected by the Italians. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] However, a Premier who, today, in this House, perhaps thinking he is still in college, intends to give us lessons on parliamentary behaviour and the role of opposition. I am concerned to agree with Senator Renzi, but I remember that in the last parliamentary term he used the so-called trap for opposition. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Having restored a minimum of order, I would like to stress why we say no to this Government. First of all, because our values, our program and our history are irreconcilable with those of Movimento 5 Stars. The one is worth one represents the denial of the value, for us sacred, of merit. The components of the Movimento 5 Star elevate to value the fact of having no experience and competence, poisoning the country with dangerous and wrong equations. If there have been errors - and there have certainly been - these must be corrected, but it would be a deadly mistake to abandon the path of our identity, built on trust in the person, enterprise and subsidiarity as a model of good governance. It is an identity made of respect for others and healthy and correct competition to bring out the best and reward excellence. In the last few days we have heard ancient and inconclusive recipes outside this House, with the risk of fueling our debt, aiming at an increase in unproductive public spending. We have always felt outside this House that we want to stop the work of the TAV and other great works that have improved and will improve the lives of citizens, of which the centre-right proudly claims paternity. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] However, what we are most concerned about is what we have not heard in your speech, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. How will you stop in four months, the day after tomorrow, the increase in VAT that affects small traders and consumption? How will you act in defence of the workers of Ilva and Alitalia? How will you defend the Italian credit system and citizens' savings? And, again, how will you intervene on gender equality in the working environments, which you mentioned earlier, without even setting up the Ministry of Equal Opportunities? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] At the same time, what development policies will you put on the ground for the South, with a Ministry without portfolio - I don't want it, Minister - created only for political opportunity? On these urgent speeches, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there has not been a single word in your dream speech from the book of dreams. Is this the model of the hypocrisy of the fallacious equation one worth one, all equal in the happy decline, all subjects of an omnipotent and oppressive state? For us the model of social envy, elevated to a government contract, is not acceptable. It is not enough, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to mention the change ten times in order to achieve it; we need numbers, cover-ups, concrete actions, but above all achievable. I know that most of them are not just the Movimento 5 Stars, but also the friends of the League. Mr Salvini, Mr Giorgetti, or rather, without hypocrisy, dear Matteo, dear Giancarlo, you know, today you take a risky path compared to that made together in recent years. We are certain, however, that time will be a gentleman. In the meantime we will continue to govern well everywhere in Italy, both where we already do so, and where we will do so in the near future and inescapable. Our path is marked by successes, defeats, for charity, joys and sorrows, but that has always seen us fighting loyally on the same side. We hope to find the same fairness and generosity that President Berlusconi had with you, favouring the unity of the entire coalition before his party. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is in fact precisely and above all in the coalition - and I use the present time - that the values, ideas, women and men that in recent years have guaranteed the country, many regions and thousands of municipalities, the best experiences of good administration. We hope that, although we already know that the Movimento 5 Star represents the negation of our reference values, it represents a profoundly different idea. Forza Italia, from today, from these opposition benches, will remain the authentic interpreter of the values proper to the center-right that, as far as we are concerned, can never, and I say never, be negotiable values. The center-right remains our historical perspective and we want to be sure that it remains also yours. From today, Forza Italia will play this challenge. We remain in keeping our values, our ideals, those awarded by the voters on March 4th. We are and will be ready to relaunch that path of center-right that still today we think is the only way to give a better future to our children and to Italy as a whole. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u82	Senator Taverna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, President-in-Office of the Council, Members of the Government, I cannot hide the great emotion with which I am speaking in this House today. This is undoubtedly a historic moment for the country, for democratic institutions and especially for Italian citizens. Today the third Republic is born and the protagonists of this epochal turning point, which we are witnessing today with great pride, are the Italians. Italians who have regained awareness of the importance of participation and information for the consequent exercise of the rights of freedom. The Italians who have returned to the square to make their voices heard, who in the ballot boxes have shown that no electoral law, no information sign, no attempt to throw mud from afar can plunder a people of its sovereign power. It is to them, to each one of them, to each one of us today that my thanks go. For too long, citizens have been expelled from places of power, from decision-making roles. Today, however, they have risen and that is why I thank you, for taking your life in hand and for having understood that politics is the most effective tool to improve it. Thank you for contributing to the improvement of your square meter, your neighborhood, your city and, by this way, the whole country. Thank you for triggering a gentle revolution in which the only weapons are the power and beauty of the word, thought and its manifestation, curiosity and collective intelligence, the example. In just ten years the Movimento 5 Stars has managed to achieve a gentle revolution, going down the streets and filling the squares more and more, promoting the tools of direct democracy, which will now be even more implemented and valued. This is how we managed to reduce the lateral distance between the State and its community. Today that distance has been cancelled because the citizens have entered the institutions and have become a state. And to the oppositions, who are expressing their dissent to this Government, I just want to say one thing: if the 5 Star Movement today is in the government of the country, it is because you have failed. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are the product of your failure. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Today I say to you who criticize our government program: you have used power to realize the interests of the few, we will use it to realize the interests of many, the needs of all Italian citizens, especially the weakest, vulnerable and marginalized ones. You had your chance and you wasted it. You ruled and you didn't improve the life of the Italians. In fact, the dramatic situation in the country is the mirror of your policies of a few and for a few, who have humiliated and forgotten many, many. Today, however, the wind has changed. Today the Government of Change is born, the first government that, after ten years, returns to be an expression of the popular will. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] So, like us Members of Parliament, the Ministers of this Government, who I look proudly at sitting here today, will have only one employer: the Italian people. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] And like the workers on the first day of construction, they have a certainty that reassures them and urges them: the building that they are preparing to build has solid foundations. No flying promises, no empty slogans, not a word to the wind. The Government of Change, which is starting to begin today, is based on a contract. And contract means bond and commitment. With this government contract, we make the commitments that we take and which we bind ourselves to before the citizens out of the blue. No bad surprises for the Italians. No more cuts in health care. Never more banks and bankers saved and savers cheated, and in addition you will not pay back [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and Senator Buccarella Groups]] No more measures with a beautiful title and a bad content: jobs act... good school... etc. By the way, I would like to take this opportunity to say hello to Mr Renzi, because I hear that he will devote himself to traveling and will not be with us for a fee. Have a good trip, Senator. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But on returning to the government, first of all, I would like to thank Council President Giuseppe Conte for the clarity and passion he put in the presentation of his programmatic statements. Statements that have crossed the walls of this House and have come straight to the hearts of the Italians who are following us from home. I am really proud of this Government, because the polar star that will guide it will only be one: improving the quality of life of Italians. At the center will return the rights, first of all the social ones, because never again no one must remain behind. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] Universal access to care, because 12 million Italians that you forced to give up treatment will only have to be a bad memory. The right to work and the dignity of work, with an income and a citizenship pension, a guaranteed minimum wage that you have forgotten, less precariousness and more protection. The right to become parents, with a welfare that really and finally sets itself the goal of increasing the birth rate and reconciling work-life. Quality of life also means guaranteeing Italians a fairer and simpler taxation, because an entrepreneur cannot lose two hundred and forty hours a year in tax and bureaucratic obligations. At the center will be the public goods that will return to be common heritage: water, environment, landscape, culture and art, to be preserved as the most precious treasure. The agro-food industry, the handicrafts - I know you are unknown as words, I am reminding the Government that it will implement them [[Applause from the M5S Group]] - Made in Italy to enhance inside and outside our borders. Research and university as sources of knowledge and engine of development, to be financed and supported, because our boys will no longer have to run away abroad as they did with you and those, too many, who have already been forced to do so will have to be put in a position to return proudly to their land. Sustainability, investment with high employment multipliers and innovation are just some of the tools to restart the growth of our country and with it trust and hope for a better and quality future. Italy, the most beautiful country in the world, will return to shine of its own light. We have an extraordinary opportunity to show that things can really change and that it is not true that it is not worth voting because things don't change anyway. We have an extraordinary opportunity to show that evasion, corruption and mafia are not inextinguishable evils; that the State can be a friend of the citizen, accompanying him and eliminating all obstacles to the achievement of substantial equality. Because every citizen, every one of us, no one excluded, must be put in a position to live a free and dignified life and, consequently, to contribute to the moral and material progress of society. [[Applause from Senator Bottici]] It is time to win the trust of all Italians, even those who have so far had some perplexity, because everyone will have the opportunity to verify, day after day, that their life is improving, that the things said have been done. Moreover, as Gianroberto Casaleggio said, "A person can believe the words. But he will always believe in examples. Good work of heart, all together. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups and Senator Buccarella.Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u84	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u85	I inform you that former Senator Pierre Carniti is missing. I invite you to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly stands and observes a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u86	I'm warning you that you've been presented, within the agreed deadlines, and you're in distribution, motion 1-00014 of trust to the government, signed by Senators Crimes and Candiani. I communicate that the direct television broadcast with RAI is in progress. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, if I may, I would like to address a first reply and a first thought to Senator Segre. We met the other day and I was very pleased to see you here today. She gave us a great gift, because she gave us back to memory a very painful page of our history. Time goes by, we go away from that historical phase, but we must never allow oblivion. I have an 11-year-old boy and I always commit to convey this memory to him, because I always tell myself that the new generations, moving away from that phase, could lose the sense and gravity of what happened. Thank you. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a collective thank you. I took some notes, but I'm sure I'll forget some names. I would then like to thank all the senators and senators who spoke collectively - and then, of course, I will try to answer in this regard - all the senators and senators who have spoken: Malan, Bagnai, Mirabelli, Siclari, Fattori, Tosato, Steger, Saccone, Monti, Urso, Misiani, Barbaro, Quagliariello, Morra, Bishops, Pichetto Fratin, Marsilio, Cattaneo, Bellanova, Pirovano, Romani, Pellegrini, Bossi, Unterberger, Grasso, La Russa, Renzi, Pillon, Ronzulli and Taverna. This allows me to proceed with arguments. But my thanks are not rhetorical, because they allow us and myself, who lead the government, to clarify a few points better. And because when I first spoke about the idea of the centrality of Parliament, it was not a concession to rhetoric. I thank you for the good wishes that many of you have expressed to this Government, so, on behalf of the Ministers, I am very happy to receive this encouragement. We are very determined - it is true - but the best wishes are pleasing, also because - I have also told the people who stopped me in recent days - the best wishes are not to me personally or to the Ministers, but are to Italy [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] If we succeed in carrying out this programme, or even a significant part of it, the country will benefit from it. Then politics is like this: elections sometimes benefit some forces while others are penalized; you can alternate. But let's also think about our country. Some of the speeches point to a misunderstanding: I have to take responsibility for it; obviously the words have served me badly. I had no intention of disrespecting Parliament, but I believe that a more careful reading of my words will come in handy. I did not mean, for example, to stand up as a judge of Parliament. I spoke very humbly and I understand that perhaps the misunderstanding arose from the fact that I also spoke about the question time, but I was referring to the Premier question time: I personally will come here periodically to answer your questions. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and Senator Merlo groups.]] Many of you have pointed out and recalled the singularity of the government contract. I have paid some attention to my report, I have explained my position a little, and I repeat it: in my opinion, it is a matter of transparency and clarity. I spoke of breaking institutional practice so far. Then let the constitutionalists think about it; let the constitutional law manuals be enriched with these new elements. But can we question the fact that, in full transparency, political forces meet, discuss and, without talking about armchairs, positions, partitions of roles, try to understand if there are the extremes and conditions to carry out and carry out a government program? Is that a bad thing? I've heard of mischief: is the contract a mischief? No, this is exaggerated; this is not. What's the curl? Does transparency become iniqucio? [[Comments from the PD Group. Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] I also say that if these ninety days have turned out a little'singular and this gestation was judged by Prima Repubblica, let's say that the protagonists were many and all a bit 'played a role, so everyone takes responsibility for this gestation and how it went. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups and Senator Merlo]] The day has been heavy, I have spoken for a long time and I will now try to be brief on some issues: issues and issues of an economic nature that have been touched upon. Do we have to say it again? The exit from the euro has never been in question and is not under discussion; it is not an issue that has penetrated the government contract and it is not an objective that we propose to pursue. The theme is another and some intervention has emerged: is it legitimate or not for a government and for a country to renegotiate economic policies? [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] What do we do, we have to give up discussing economic policies? That's what we're talking about. Whether there is room or not we will find out; we are determined, determined to do so. The economists divide themselves: there are those who express certainty on the point and bind themselves to dogmas and it is really curious that this happens. We are well aware of what are the scares in the constellation of this speech, what are the terms, the indications, the spread; but be careful not to make the spread our banner, the only reference, because the spread hides financial speculation and we return to this morning's speech [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and FdI Groups and Senator Merlo]] I appreciate the intellectual honesty that has been demonstrated by someone, Senator Quagliariello, if I remember correctly, when he said that perhaps the opposition forces have cheered for this government to be born. I do not know, I am not in the position of the opposition forces, but I can say that we must all hope that we can achieve and not disregard the expectations of the citizens and that we will do everything we can to work in the interests of everyone. We have also been told, with a refrain that has often returned to some speeches, that we now have to get out of the electoral campaign. FARAONE (PD). Even now. [[Comments.]] , President of the Council of Ministers. Perhaps there is a misunderstanding. Perhaps we are not used to seeing in a contract the anticipations that were made in the election campaign. [[Live, sustained applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups, standing up, and from the government benches.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u88	It is not possible to have this attitude. Colleagues, sit down and listen. There's no need for stadium typhus. BELLANOVA (PD). President, there were two sides... president. Senator, please, you don't have to talk either. Let the President-in-Office of the Council reply. There's no need for a demonstration. You spoke first, now he speaks, then you will make explanations of vote. I find it intolerable for you to stand up and be loud. It can be applauded in a regular way.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u89	Mr President, this is also a singularity: electoral campaign anticipations are reported in a contract in writing and these two leaders of the forces that support the majority of the government have signed it off on white, they have taken responsibility for it; if we fail to achieve these objectives they will assume responsibility for it, as I will assume responsibility for not having succeeded. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] Many interventions have complained of a lack of attention to the South. Damn, told a Apulian this is a little heavy. See that in the government contract, to read it carefully (and, if you will allow me, also to reread the intervention of today), the South is everywhere [[Comments from the PD Group]] It's not an island that's there. And, excuse me, a minister, even without a wallet, dedicated specifically to the South, what is it? Isn't that an important signal? [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] Public investment bank and a lot, widespread, distributed attention to the South. When we talk about infrastructure, in all initiatives and in all government actions, it is clear that there will always be constant attention to the South. This does not mean that we will exclude the North, but we must not even have access to a split logic, presenting a divided country, two irreconcilable worlds that do not communicate with each other. We have thought of dedicating a minister to the South (we have thought about it for a long time) because we have considered that, for the use and rationalization of funds, we also need a minister who is constantly and organically dedicated to rationing all resources for the South, at European level (we have studied and we have seen that they are not fully used). Did we make a mistake? Poor attention? We'll see about that during government action. Infrastructure. You told us this government isn't paying any attention to infrastructure. Where are the infrastructure? Look, we want to make the economy grow. The economy grows with productive investments and also grows with infrastructure. Obviously we have not declined in a government contract (it seemed inappropriate to us) some specific works. MALPEZZI (PD). So don't do it. Mr Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. We have not declined a list of specific works. MALPEZZI (PD). But what if they're not written? Mr Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. We have just settled down: let us take time to study the open dossiers and evaluate which infrastructure to implement. [[Comments of Senator Giro]] Today I paid a lot of attention to the problem of public procurement; you will not have missed it, I imagine, as you were very careful and attentive. Well, that too is a foreordained focus on investment in infrastructure. If we do not try to deburocratize what is necessary, if we fail to overcome the stasis generated by the recent approval of the public contract code, we are not going anywhere. We are very aware that today, between two directors, between those who take the initiatives and those who stand still, the first is no longer a career, because it meets accounting responsibility and criminal responsibility, while the one who is standing still goes on instead. We're aware, because we're talking to local administrators. We have to solve this problem; it is useless to claim that we do this and do that, if we do not overcome this stage and this passage first. One initiative that we are studying is, for example, the role of ANAC: we must also strengthen the pre-litigation phase and we are studying how to do it, because if we can strengthen the pre-litigation phase of ANAC, we will have some sort of authoritative certification for administrators to proceed. But do you know that a school manager for a school trip has to tender for transportation? Do you know that it must have administrative powers which my colleagues do not have? Is it conceivable to you? Can we talk about infrastructure if we don't solve these problems? [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] Citizenship income. I am sorry that the income of citizenship - I am just saying this - has been represented as a measure of social welfare. If you read carefully the anticipations that are in the government contract, it is a clearly oriented measure, foreordained to the reintegration into the working world. We are talking about active policies and the fundamental prerequisite is the reform of employment centres, otherwise we recognize it ourselves, it will not work and above all it will not achieve those objectives that we are trying to achieve. Justice. You accuse us of justiceism: what is this justiceism? Is the certainty of punishment justiceism? [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] Here I really do not dwell, because perhaps it is one of the most articulated and full-bodied parts of the Government contract. I am just saying, given that there has been some concern in some intervention regarding the prescription, that the balance must be determined: the problem is all there. No one has said that the prescription is not legitimate in itself; the problem is that if we fail to measure the balance, as it is currently formulated, it becomes denied justice. FARAONE (PD). Tell Savona! Mr Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. As far as autonomy is concerned, I have appreciated the interventions of the senators who are the bearers of the interests of the regions with a special status. I'd say we're in sync, as far as I've heard. In the government program there is also attention to the other possibility provided for in article 116, third paragraph of the Constitution: Regions that request it in a motivated way can ask for and obtain greater autonomy. There are already negotiations in progress in the State-Regions: we will follow them carefully. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups and Senator De Bertoldi.]] All the more so if these initiatives are based on institutions of direct democracy. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Vallardi]] In some interventions there was a critical note regarding the alleged lack of attention to companies and industry. In this case too it is like the South: probably, when the arguments are immanent they escape attention. Business activity is everywhere in the program contract. Business is the economic and social flywheel. When it comes to the environment, the green economy and the circular economy, who makes the circular economy? What's behind the circular economy, to say one? [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] Then, if you will allow me, let me also recall the sensitivity of those who speak. Today I have spent a long time on the discipline of companies, technological innovations and deburocratization, I have spoken of corporate social responsibility, a topic that I very dear to myself, I have spoken of regulating crises and introducing in an organic way a more complete and articulated crisis of enterprise, that can, in some way, prevent what is the scarecrow, the outcome that currently offers the legal order of a breakdown-insolvency that leads to the sanctioning mechanism - veterosanctionary - of failure, with that pillage, also from the moral point of view, that all draws with itself. I was challenged that I had never used the lexicon "Patria". I use it now. I'm not afraid to use it. Yes, it is true, perhaps, for my own linguistic convention, I access to use the word "Country" more frequently. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] But a few days ago, when I joined the highest offices of the State beginning with the President of the Republic, on the feast of June 2, I was proud to be there, proud to climb the steps of the Altar of the Homeland, proud to attend the parade of our chosen bodies and of everyone working in the general interest. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and FdI Groups and Senator Buccarella]] We have also been urged to confront presidentialism. This isn't in the government contract. Parliament is sovereign, and if such substantial reform initiatives are taken in Parliament - we have some proposals which also have an impact on the constitutional structure - as it is right that political forces, groups, should confront each other. We have already said about immigration. We do not make the mistake of collecting enucleated jokes from interviews, our position is very clear: we fight the scafists, the crime business. As I said very clearly this morning, we want the issue to be addressed in respect of the full dignity of many who suffer, of many who have all the prerequisites for being able, in accordance with international conventions, to achieve a status that protects them in greater depth. We want migratory flows to be regulated and, above all, we want the problem to be tackled - I have said so and I remember it - at European level, because, as was also recognised authoritatively a few days ago, we were left alone. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and FdI Groups and Senator Merlo]] You've asked us so many other things, questions of detail. Give us time to work now. Give us time to measure ourselves with all the complexity and difficulty, which we do not hide, of this task. We can assure you that we will do so responsibly, with the utmost commitment, and we will also take care of many other matters. We will also follow many other activities, many other sectors: school, for example, university, culture. [[Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] Issues that are already in the government contract, it being understood that we will be able to enrich it as we move forward, responding to all the expectations of the citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups and the Senators De Bertoldi and Merlo, who stand up.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u90	I thank the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u93	NENCINI (Misto-PSI). Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I fear that the President-in-Office of the Council is quite right when he says that the third Republic is born today. In conclusion, Mr President, you have literally stated: The people have chosen. It is a perfect citation of Robespierre to the National Convention. He forgot, however, to add that the third Republic was born on a double betrayal, of the people I mean: there are those who betrayed the center-right, today shattered, and there are those who betrayed the commitment to govern alone. The test is in the contract: absence of a chronoprogram and conflict between objectives. There is no line on institutional reforms and federalism, too little on Europe, nothing on infrastructure, just five lines on foreign policy, where the umbrella of NATO is reduced to a hat, exposed as it is to a marked pro-putinism. In the South, Mr President, there is only one quotation: on the 12 pages of your report, the South is mentioned on the penultimate page only once. I read: "We will work to safeguard the Regions with special autonomy of the North and South of the Country". There is no other trace of the Mezzogiorno in 12 pages. I figured coming to the Chamber, you were obliged to bring in the contract-program on which the Senate is called to choose. And don't compare this contract with another contract, the one signed in 1962. They signed it in three: Moro, Fanfani and Nenni and that contract definitely made Italy more free and civil. I will not vote for her trust, indeed, I even tear her from Di Maio Pertini's pantheon and take him home. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u96	MERLO (Misto-MAIE). Mr President, we of the Italian Association Movement abroad (MAIE) appreciated and shared the words of the President of the Council. We have been in Parliament since 2008, unfortunately we have always been in opposition, because there has never been a serious policy for Italians abroad. The five million Italians abroad have important issues to solve. We have a broken consular network. To ask for a citizenship appointment in some consulates give us the turn for 2023 or 2025, a shame! To renew a passport, a person who must travel must wait a year. Two more discriminations must be eliminated. The first is that, unfortunately, there is a large amount of women who cannot pass on citizenship abroad because of being women and this is resolved by a law at no cost and never has been done. The second discrimination that must be eliminated is that Italians abroad are the only Italians who pay the IMU for the first home, another shame. Our chambers of commerce - made in Italy - linked to our communities have been abandoned, thus giving up a great opportunity for Italy. This time we see instead that these arguments have been included in the Government contract. In the contract there is a first programmatic draft for a serious policy for Italians abroad. We also and above all share the change of paradigm set in the government contract and we are convinced that to strengthen Europe we need to change it deeply. On all these issues, we will vote in favour of trust. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u99	BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I first entered the institutions in 1976, proud of my red hooves, not out of provocation, but out of inexperience. Since then I have studied a lot and I have learned a lot. We had come in trying to change Parliament to make it more and more authoritative, to give Members more freedom and more responsibility, and we have changed a little. That pearl which is Radio Radicale, since 1976 has brought these institutions into the home of millions of citizens. I think that's an example. However, I fear that you intend to change, but in the opposite direction and I am concerned about the twisted way in which, in the famous contract, the hypothesis is put forward to limit the freedom and autonomy of Members of Parliament under Article 67 of the Constitution. [[Applause from the PD Group]] That doesn't give me hope. We have entered and collaborated with Spinelli in order to give a stronger foundation to the construction of Europe and today it seems to me that, in general, we work not to strengthen it but, I fear, to accelerate its disintegration. The Europe that its founders (from Monnet, to Adenauer and De Gasperi) thought and built was an act of responsibility in the tragedy of their time. Dear colleagues, let's keep it that way, we can't go back. I come to the last point. I only have a few minutes and I had to use other tools to express my opinions.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u100	You have another minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u101	BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). The point I want to touch is the chapter justice. It's a full-bodied, articulated chapter, as you called it. I am afraid that today we are going to go along with an justiceist and even demagogic drift. Minister Orlando had tried - and my radical companion Rita Bernardini, I believe, to make a fundamental contribution - to convey the concept that legality and humanity go hand in hand. Legality and humanity make security. [[Applause from Senator Rampi]] And prison is the deprivation of freedom, it is not the deprivation of dignity. I think you should recognize that. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Radical culture has taught me that there are no enemies, there are opponents. It has also taught me that in a liberal democracy the role and responsibility of the opposition is equally useful and indispensable for the proper functioning of a liberal democracy. That's what I'm getting ready to do. Know that I will be rigorous and that I will exercise with determination and rigour, but I have, in fact, before me political opponents, not enemies. They are opposing men and women, not enemies, and I would like us to begin to respect the institutions. I don't think stadium climates help, either. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u102	Senator Bonino, we also respect the times.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u103	BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). I'm done, ma'am. I believe that the image that these institutions must give in the homes of Italians is also a good education, because good education, as my mother said, is revolutionary. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u106	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have listened very carefully to the whole debate, starting with your speeches and those of the representatives of the forces supporting your Government. Strong reservations concern several points of the programme: from the absence of economic cover, to the role that Italy intends to play in Europe, to the absolute generality of a whole series of points. Finally, there is the question of autonomy and linguistic minorities. This is an area that we will take concrete measures starting tomorrow, urging you and your Government in a close, unprejudiced confrontation and on the substance of the issues. In the face of all this, different evaluations have matured within us. The members of this Group, as an expression of the autonomous political forces, will abstain. The political mandate that our voters give to our forces is to best represent territorial interests and our minorities in national institutions, seeking a confrontation with all governments. This is why we abstain, as a gesture of good will, in order to start a discussion on the substance of the issues. It is a vote aimed at strengthening the start of a dialogue between the self-government and this new government. The life senator Elena Cattaneo will also cast a vote of abstention. Other members of our Group, Senator Bressa and Senator Casini, will vote against, not sharing the political and programmatic approach of the Government. For a heterogeneous group like ours, in which so many political paths coexist, the diversity of views and sensitivity is a natural fact. We will continue to work together and, in any case, can expect from us all a responsible but rigorous attitude, never preliminary and always on the substance of the contents. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u109	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the Senators of Liberi and Uguali will not give confidence to your Government, born after having held the country for ninety days hung upside down, sudden changes of ideas, a mad carousel, a race that risked, in the end, even a serious institutional crisis. You, Mr President, almost claimed your lack of autonomy in your speech, and therefore your total membership of the Contracting Parties. He listed the points of that contract, but without saying anything clear and concrete about how and when he intends to implement them. He tried to sweeten the pill on the most critical aspects, such as immigration policies and the secretive turning point, however, look that there is little to do, because those policies - and we will see that - are, in our opinion, regressive and dangerous. You have repeated as a mantra the Government of Change. In fact, there are elements in your program that will profoundly change the country, but it is not really said that will make it better. The first statements by the Minister of the Interior about immigrants, while dying at sea and being murdered at Vibo Soumalya, and his attacks on NGOs unfortunately confirm that these threats are real. Look, Mr President, we have opposed the measures taken by Minister Minniti, to whom, moreover, yesterday the compliments of his successor for the good work already done. All the more, then, we will oppose today. Equally disturbing - and you have not even sung the pill on this - are the statements of the minister of the Fontana family: homophobes, regressive, even threatening the law n. 194 of 1978. But you will not need to play the game of personal statements, because those who express those opinions, worthy of the most obscurantist fundamentalism, are not a private citizen, but the Minister who, after all, should deal with these matters. Moreover, even without counting personal opinions, the programme is full of security and justice measures and, I would also like to say, discriminatory. In some cases, such as the shameful discrimination against children who are children of immigrants, how to define them if not openly racist? These are demagogic rules, perhaps designed to fuel some sort of permanent election campaign. It's easy demagogy, but it's not zero cost. The cost will be paid with the suffering of many human beings and a regression in the field of freedom and civil rights. Against these proposals, if they go forward, and against the tribal and medieval culture that inspires them, we will make a very hard opposition, both in Parliament and outside Parliament. I repeat: we will fight them with every means. And if you try to touch Law No. 194 of May 22, 1978, and go back to standards of civilization such as that on civil unions, public opinion - know it - will not follow you. I am sure that in this battle we will also meet many voters of the Movimento 5 Stars. How, in fact, do the positions of Minister Salvini reconcile with the proposal of the Movimento 5 Stars of the last legislature for the repeal of the crime of immigration, moreover approved? What holds together the choices of the mayors Hanging and Rays on the recognition of parenthood for gay couples with the obscurantism of Minister Fontana? Or the line that the Movimento 5 Stars has always had in the matter of missions abroad and military interventions with the appointment as Minister of Defense of the president of a consortium that seems to have taken care to recruit the contractors? The truth is that the culture of this government, its figure and its deep inspiration are those of the League. The Movimento 5 Stars - I am very sorry - has agreed to submit to a regressive political culture. I also want to say something else, Mr President. Unfortunately, against this danger of injury in the field of rights we have not heard indignant voices rising in Europe. Everything, as always, has only pointed out in defense of rigour in the economic field. We consider the European policies of austerity, fiscal compact and rigour, as well as the 3% rule, which Prodi himself will call stupid, wrong, counterproductive for economic recovery and ruined for the devastating effects they have had on the lives of millions of people and also for the survival of the European Union, because, because of these policies, the confidence of citizens and the credibility of the European Union itself have been undermined. Mr President, you spoke of a more just and united Europe. I very much hope that it does not allude to Orbán's, just mentioned yesterday by the Vice President of your Government. If this Government implements measures that force the cages of rigour to start a series of productive public investments and social measures, we will confront ourselves on the merits and pressure the Government to be real and effective and we will push on this path. Overcoming the so-called Fornero reform, on which you did not have much time today, and the introduction of a genuine citizenship income are urgent things that we too share. But if attempts to loosen the penalty are to serve only to finance unfair and harmful measures such as flat tax, we are not and will not agree and we will oppose them, just as we have done with the Renzi Government's choices to waste the flexibility granted by the European Union for bonuses and demagogic measures. The stringency meshes must be completely loosened, recanted and renegotiated in order to launch development policies capable of creating jobs and income that can put an economy back on the pole. Innovative policies must be put in place immediately to address the major issue of climate change, the issues of automation, the energy transition and a rebirth plan for the South. bold ecological reconversion policies, a large green plan for land improvement and security, as well as for sustainable mobility, based on small and medium-sized projects and financed with public investment that cannot be calculated in defining the deficit-to-GDP ratio. On the contrary, there is no need for useless and harmful great works, but since on this point the contract is a masterpiece of ambiguity, we will also see on this if the Movimento 5 Stars will yield to the League. We now come to the change, so repeatedly summoned by you. The change that Italy needs concerns two fundamental issues, which you yourself stressed, but unfortunately without going much further: labour and social inequalities. Mr President, there is nothing in your contract, despite the promises of the election campaign, about the abolition of the jobs act, which has increased the precariousness and permanent and deprived insecurity of millions of workers' rights, including an entire generation of young people. For them there will be no change if they do not reconnect together, strictly, rights and dignity of work. They will otherwise remain precarious, underpaid, without rights. And an easy Twitter propaganda tweet is not enough to fill the gap in the work programme, to say that you didn't have the courage to say anything about Article 18. As for inequalities and social injustice that has reached macroscopic proportions, your flat tax will worsen the situation, making the already rich richer, a sort of redistribution on the contrary, from the bottom up. To finance this gift, perhaps think of a great tax sanatorium, but this road, you know, is not compatible with an adequate welfare system, public health and guaranteeing adequate resources for public school. The risk, then, is that, contrary to what you promise, you take away from those who do not have to give something more to those who already have everything. No one is more convinced of the urgency of radical change than we are. No one knows how urgent it is to combat inequalities and give young people back real work and a future. No one knows how much we need to build a more just country from all points of view. To do this, to build the alternative, we will start again from the opposition, but the Left must have the courage - and we assume it - not to remove the reasons for such a profound defeat. Only then will we be able to find that connection that has been lost with the young, with the workers, with the weakest. You have to change. You can change. But too many things, in his speech and in your program, make us fear strongly to find ourselves instead in front of the oldest and most inveterate habit of the old and new power groups in Italy: change everything not to change anything. That is why we do not believe in your Government of change, that is why Free and Equal can only deny you confidence. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u112	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the attitude that the Group of Brothers of Italy and its leader have adopted in these crucial and very difficult weeks, following the political vote, I believe has been centred on the sense of responsibility and consistency with what we asked the citizens and our voters. Two things were particularly important to us: having a political government, because we have no nostalgia for technical governments, and making national interest prevail over particular interests, had also been the particular interest of our party and our community. Only eight, ten days ago at most, our country experienced a dramatic situation, of institutional conflict, the spread returned to the levels of guard, there was the risk of tragic and ridiculous elections in August and, on that occasion, Giorgia Meloni, our President, without asking for anything in return, said that we would be willing to help create a political government. I repeat: without asking for anything in return. That is what happened, ladies and gentlemen. Of course it is easy, simple, almost elementary to say that we would have preferred another solution. We would have preferred the government to be formed by the center-right, reflecting the coalition that had won, albeit partially, the last elections. This has not been possible, but no one in this House and outside of it can accuse us of not having done everything possible to make this happen, until the last useful moment. If anyone complains that this has not happened, he should think that what we are experiencing is the effect, of which we had been easy prophets, of a bad electoral law, voted against with so many people who, even in this House, demanded any law to return to the vote immediately. Here is the result of any law: majorities break, poles join in marriages that I do not know if they are of interest or love, perhaps neither of interest nor of love. We are fully aware, colleagues and President, that this Government is born within a perimeter marked by many limitations, many contradictions and many complexities. The first problem, Mr Conte, concerns, let me say, you yourself. We hope that you will not only be the Premier, but that you will be the Premier of this Government, because otherwise we will find ourselves in the difficult and undesirable situation of having at least three prime ministers and experience teaches - even the elementary experience of every day - that any machine cannot work if there are three drivers driving: sooner or later, sooner than later, we end up in the ditch. But the thing that is most important to us and on which much of the debate in this House has focused, by majority and opposition, and also your replies, President, is the judgment you give on this contract, which you present as a virtuous synthesis of different programmes that you have met. Well, I'll tell her that even after listening to her replicas, this contract seems to me to be a rather confused sum of things that struggle to be together and that, sometimes, they punch each other. It is a size and sew full of logical jumps, inconsistencies and programmatic holes. You have tried to put a piece in it - as other colleagues who have spoken before me have also mentioned - saying 'but also ', but this too' and 'don't forget this': it is a way of solving the problems that unfortunately has not been very successful in the past. Let me give just one example, to sum up our perplexities and doubts: how can you imagine keeping together a social and economic model that underlies flat tax with the social and economic model that underlies the income of citizenship? They're not just different things, they're opposite things. And you tried to hide these problems, but I think - alas - you couldn't. And how can one imagine keeping together those who have theorized the happy decline, the end of the job and therefore the intervention of the massive state in the rescue of those who do not have the job and never will have it, with those who say - and we agree - that to get out of the crisis need more investment, more consumption, more production, more work and more growth of GDP? These are things that we find difficult to reconcile. And I'm not talking about the ethical issues you've kept at the door of your contract, but they're gonna knock again and you're gonna have to answer to them sooner or later. One thing, however, is more serious than your reply: when they pressed you to give a clear answer, a yes, yes or no, no on the issue of infrastructure, you, after making the eulogy of the detailed programme that contains, to every comma, the commitments you intend to maintain with the Italians, have trenched from the big infrastructure by saying (I literally quote): We have not declined a list: very bad, Mr President. This list had to be declined, because we are not talking about details, we are talking about the future infrastructure and modernisation of this country, which concerns the future of thousands and thousands of businesses and millions of citizens. In short, we have found many things on this contract, some of them we like and - as has already been widely announced - we will vote in favour when they arrive in this House, others we have not found and we would find them: I am talking about presidentialism, without which there is no possibility of achieving modern federalism. But I am also talking about immigration, because you see, Mr President, I may have misunderstood, but I fear not: the problem you have put to the House is not to relocate regular immigrants, the issue is to block new arrivals and repatriate those who have entered without right. That is what we have asked for, and that is what we continue to ask for. And I would inform you, if you do not already know, that today in Luxembourg, at the summits of the Ministers of the Interior and Justice of the Union, it has been said that the only way to block immigration is the one we have insisted on: the blockade of ships and the closure of borders. Other roads are not there, because otherwise we retrace already failed routes that we have unfortunately known on our skin. On the South, I can add what many others have already said: a Ministry without a portfolio is the last thing I believe the citizens of the South feel the need for; they feel the need for a new, secure investment policy, with reliable and dedicated funding. It also disturbs us and hurts us that the liberal professions, small traders, craftsmen, who are the backbone of this country, have only received a marginal quote; we expected more. Compared to flat tax, we have a solution; it will not be the definitive and radical solution, but in the meantime we can start from here. The flat tax, with a 15% rate for incremental income: this is a measure that can be done tomorrow morning at the first Council of Ministers; it does not need financial cover and applies from the next day. This is how we think we are in opposition: not only by saying "no," thank you, but also by suggesting alternative routes, such as the 17 alternative routes that we have deposited with the Senate and on which we ask for a comparison. Mr President, the election campaign is over, many people have said so; we come down from the stage of the meetings and sit behind the desks to make difficult and complicated decisions. We reiterate our request to know how much you can achieve, in what time, with what resources, from which chapters of the state budget, with what priority. You see, Mr President, budgets are like reality: they are stubborn and cannot be cancelled, even with the most brilliant and ecumenical of speeches. President Conte, we will not vote for this Government, we will not be in the majority, but we will not sit in the stands to cheer for its failure, for the sinking of hopes of recovery and change. Wrongly or rightly, partially and confusingly, this Government represents millions of citizens. Let us leave this lavish task to the intellectuals of the left, true or presumed, who have not yet resigned and who just do not want to understand. Mr President, the wonderful Italy, which we consider adorable, of which you have often spoken and which is about to govern, is also our Italy, the very reason for our political activity and our presence here today. We will be the guardians of the interests of the nation and the Italians; we will confront each other on this ground; we will dialogue and perhaps fight hard. I don't know if this corresponds to what you have called to make a "loyal and constructive" opposition; we call it "loving the Homeland": that is what they have taught us and that is what we want to continue to do. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u115	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, authoritative representatives of the Government, authoritative colleagues, it has been three months: once in eighty days it was hoped to travel around the world, even by means of luck; it has not taken you ninety days to get where we are today, having blocked the country. But not to make a political agreement, what you call, in an inexplicable way enough, the contract is in; that was already there, it's been there for weeks. We knew from the beginning that the agreement was there on politics. The difficulty was the division of the armchairs, the struggle over who could go where. This is serious, because somehow the country felt mocked. Then there are constitutional prerogatives, Mr President. You - allow me - have taken hold of a political agreement made by others, as you have been able to say today: by Mr Di Maio, your Vice President, and by Senator Salvini, the other Vice President. They have decided, on behalf of their parties, the Ministers; they have asked for additional time for the Undersecretaries, because probably here too there is some anxiety in the division, in the division, which delays the activation of the parliamentary committees and the appointment of the Presidents. When the Commissions meet, it will be more than a hundred days of no work for Members and Parliament, for which you have all the responsibility. Allow me, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. His speech today and also the subsequent reply make me have doubts about its effective autonomy, which - I repeat - is a constitutional prerogative. I have the impression that we will have to coin a new figure for its Vice Presidents, that of "Associate Presidents" [[Applause from Senator Malpezzi]] : a term that may also be known to you. The President of the Council of Ministers cannot be and above all cannot appear as a mere spokesman for others; he cannot do so. We ask you not to do this, not to reduce to this the main role of Government; that is not how we want Italy represented in the world. [[Applause from the PD Group]] She doesn't like left and right definitions. You will excuse me, but I have the impression that this is the most moved government of our republican history: yellow-green, I must also say with strong veins of black. The intervention of the Brothers of Italy's colleagues also leads us to that road and to that political address. Marine Le Pen confirmed it from abroad, among other things, if needed: it certified the political positioning. But also in Italy you have had an important adhesion, that of the national secretary of CasaPound, with which among other things some of the political forces that support the Government had made agreements in the previous local elections. In these ninety days you have trampled on Parliament; then you have also offended the President of the Republic in the Chamber, with rage, malanimousness, with the usual verbal violence that has marked you in the five years of opposition you have done here in the Senate and in the House. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Then the issue of the election campaign. Allow me, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. You have almost ironized, you have had a big applause and you have also irritated the President of the Senate about the fact that your political agreement is the transposition of electoral commitments. No, it is the continuation of the electoral campaign, because the commitments are made with financial cover; the commitments explain how and when the measures will be there, Mr President! [[Applause from the PD Group]] So you, with that statement, today aligned with the "Associate Presidents" and continued to campaign, perhaps because soon there will be the turn of the administrative authorities. In Italy there are always elections; indeed, perhaps we all have to work together to prevent that from happening. But you should not lend yourself, Mr President. It seemed unbelievable to me, but I want to give her good faith; not to the associates: they are aware that they are promising the impossible. We must be loyal to the voters, especially from the benches of the government. You owe it to the country, you owe it to Italian citizens. Then he offended Europe, not to support it, not to improve it, but to blackmail it, to put it in trouble, to have excuses to apply Plan B, to someone very dear. We are very far away, Mr President. Italy in a just Europe remains our horizon and we will defend this horizon to the very end in this House, in the parliamentary classrooms and in the classrooms of the European Parliament: Italy with Europe to look to the future. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Then the clash, the offenses went elsewhere, to the countries of North Africa, first to Tunisia (it is current). We, Mr President, can help them. They can do the same for us. President Di Maio explained that he will only and exclusively help the mayors of the municipalities linked to the 5 Star Movement, Mr. President. We ask you to do something, to stop this degeneration. We believe that all the mayors of Italy represent their communities worthily [[Applause from the PD Group]] We believe that the Government must be close to all the mayors of Italy, and must support all the communities of our country. Evidently, it's not like that for everyone. Then we came to declare: "The State is us." I think the comments were very clear about this. The government programme is vague, undemanding, without financial cover: flat tax in favour of the 5 percent richer population, stop infrastructure. From her we have not understood what will be done in Puglia, in Piemonte and on the great road infrastructures of the territory; Mr President, we would have liked to know today. There is talk of an income of citizenship not defined in the times, in the ways, in the financial cover; of higher pensions for all, of pensions before, of younger, for all: but when, how and with what money? Then we'll see if, how and when. Then there are the questions about vaccines: what do you think, Mr President, about the law that we wanted to establish the obligation of vaccinations? [[Applause from the PD Group]] What do you think, Mr. President? This is the life of Italians. Regarding the rights you mentioned in your speech (I appreciated that passage), what you think of a law that the Democratic Party strongly wanted and respect which the League and the 5 Star Movement voted against: thanks to us the rainbow families exist! Thanks to us, civil unions, which you have opposed, are the law of the State! [[Applause from the PD Group]] AIROLA (M5S). Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please let me finish. Mr Marcucci (PD). But it is not enough, you have forgotten the South, the development of the Mezzogiorno. He has forgotten business, innovation, the national plan industry 4.0, public and private investment; he has forgotten that our economy needs support and low-cost money that depends on spread; he needs a country that believes in business and work. Mr President, you have forgotten to talk about young people, about school, about the Italian university. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You have forgotten that Italy is a country that has a long history, a great cultural heritage, a great cultural activity; a heritage that we have linked to the world of tourism as an opportunity for growth for the future. I have the impression that he has simply forgotten to talk about the future of our country: the future, that is all, Mr President. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Conte, allow me to say that I do not envy you: your task is a difficult one. I hope that you do well and I hope that all your government can do well. They have put his name to promise seas and mountains; a program that cannot be realized and that you are, however, forced to guarantee jointly. As for us, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I can assure you that we will not pay you back in equal currency: we would not go up on the roofs, we would not rape the parliamentary classrooms. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] , we will not offend institutions as you have for years! For the Democratic Party Italy really comes first of all the rest and we will have no problem openly recognizing the results if they come. Democracy provides for alternation: those who have won must represent the country; those who have lost must prepare for the next round. The Democratic Party ruled five years and we are proud of the results achieved. That's why we challenge you to do better than us; but with the facts, not with the fake news, not with your private mud industry, not with the lies. For the moment, for your unqualified program of government, for the incredible ballets of these ninety days and for the absolute strangeness that arises with the figure of the "Presidents of the Associate Council," the Group of Senators of the Democratic Party will vote no to trust, no to this yellow-green-black government. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u116	Conclude, Senator Marcucci, you've been over ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u117	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, our opposition will be rigorous in the name of Italy, in the interests of Italy and Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u120	Mr Candiani (L-SP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a moment ago the words of exaggerated livor; but let us leave them, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, today they can only talk about their past, but instead we expect you and want to hear the fine words we have heard before, because they are aimed at the future, and it is the future that belongs to this Government. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] The Senators of the League greatly appreciated his presentation of the government's policy lines. We appreciated the quiet ways and the contents, which concretely interpret the strong expectation of change that emerged from the ballot boxes on March 4. This government, as you have effectively summarized, was born of a shared supplement of responsibility, which motivated the League to seek, from the first day after the elections, every useful solution to respond to the many problems left unsolved, if not even aggravated, by the governments supported in recent years by the Democratic Party. The government contract built with the 5 Star Movement, to which we recognize an unpredicted effort and the commitment to find shared solutions, has solid roots in the electoral program shared with Forza Italia and Fratelli d'Italia that we are certain in its implementation will find a broad consensus in Parliament. The government contract represents a new way to base a government proposal; it is the concrete and determined political solution to achieve the interest of our fellow citizens, who have unequivocally demanded, with the March 4 elections, a change of pace by politics. We have taken on this responsibility, a great responsibility, Mr President, to do our part to change the country and bring common sense back to the government of the country. The expectations of the people are many, starting from the implementation of the regional autonomy of Lombardy, Veneto and Emilia-Romagna [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] , to which we are sure the Government will give maximum commitment, because from that good example we are equally certain other Regions will be added, implementing that autonomous reform and responsibility that always animates the politics of the League. Mr President, the expectations that animate the country in terms of work, in terms of young people, that they must not go abroad to seek work, but that they must find it here, in our country and in their country. There are great security expectations and we are sure that we will do excellent things with our Interior Minister Matteo Salvini. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] We are sure of the solution that the Government will be able to give to the problems created by the terrible Fornero reform. We are sure of the commitment that your Ministry will make to solve the problems of agriculture, to re-treat the CAP and to defend the Made in Italy. We are sure of the commitment that your Government will put in favor of the enterprises, in order to give them back competitiveness through a tax that is not a tension and is not a jaw to their necks. We are confident that a new reform will come from the implementation of the flat tax, which will give impetus not only to businesses, but also to the families of our country. And we are sure that your government's commitment will stop irregular immigration, which, as has been rightly said, today is a crime business that hides behind false goodness. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] But there is also, Mr President, a greater expectation, an expectation of a change that is so simple as to be revolutionary: a government that keeps its word when it gives the floor to the citizens, who keeps their commitments when it makes them. Not like the one who preceded her. And of this seriousness we make ourselves guarantors to all our fellow citizens, because we know that we will keep our commitments and we appreciated its consistency in the first attempt to establish this Government. We appreciated the awareness that change takes place also and above all leaving out of the door every policy from the first Republic. We know that keeping our word, keeping our commitments, Mr President, must be a common denominator of the government's action, and we will always be at your side on this. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] In fact, Mr President, we have made important commitments to the earthquake victims of Marche, Umbria, Lazio, Abruzzo, Emilia-Romagna and Ischia, we have made important commitments to the creditors of the public administration because too many Sergio Bramini have been created in recent years by the PD governments. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] We know that with our government never again will it have to happen that an entrepreneur has to fail because of a state that does not pay its debts. There is a strong commitment and expectation, President, from those who have been ruined by bank failures and we know that we will also make our commitments and keep them, as with the families of the disabled. We strongly applaud the decision to set up a Ministry for the Family and the Disabled. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] Well, Mr President, having one word and keeping it, that already makes the difference between the old policy - their policy - and our policy, the new policy: the policy that makes commitments with the citizens and knows how to keep them. I remember that a few years ago, on 24 February 2014, the then President of the Council of Ministers, Matteo Renzi, said in this House: We are asking for confidence (...) I would like to be the last President of the Council to ask for confidence in this House. In that meeting, President Renzi also said: "I was referring this morning to the fact that I am not old enough to sit in the Senate of the Republic." Well, President Renzi, the age has matured; now he sits there, but he has already become old because that old age has caused his political failure and that of the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] We are witnessing, President, an ingenious press, which even before the government starts working has already determined that the government will not be able to work. To all of these we say: "Stay fresh. It's okay. Stay calm! [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] Stay calm because we will be able to keep the commitments that we will make. It is an annoying, useless and, indeed, useful prejudice, because precisely this prejudice of the press allows the citizens to recognize in us the coherence and to recognize in them the fate of those who inspire these actions. We know that this is a Government of change and there is nothing more annoying, for those who do not want to change, than being faced with those who do things instead. Well, President, we have seen Europe's departure from its founding values and it is sad to see that Europe today does not have the face of Adenauer or Spinelli but of the Junckers and Oettingers who offend the Italians. Mr President, this is what we are asking you: we are asking your Government for a change also in the way that Italians and Italians in Europe respect it. We know that with this commitment we will not have to look for, ask for or pity for derogations; we will simply have to demand the respect that is due to us. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] This government must also draw a dividing line between those who are interested in Italians and those who choose lobbying, those strong powers that consider the democratic vote a stumbling block on their path. We already showed him a few days ago that we don't bend. Continue along this path, President, even on this the Italians will be at your side. We intend to restore the primacy of politics with respect to a finance and speculation which has been left to the blame of the free hand in working against the interest of our country. Italy, let us remember, is a democratic Republic founded on work, not spread, and belongs to the people sovereignty, not spread! [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] Italy is firmly part of the Atlantic Alliance and its framework of alliances and has a role to play as holder. Mr President, we ask your Government to enforce Italian interests by restoring the prestige and consideration that must be given to our country abroad. Setting foreign policy in this way means restoring not only credibility but also greater scope for our economy. I repeat, President Conte, we ask you with determination to respect Italians and do not hesitate to oppose anyone who wants to subordinate their interest. You've already shown you know how to do that. Do not hesitate in the future to maintain the same line and you will always be able to count on our loyal support. Those who are the bearers of change are always hindered by those who advocate the maintenance of the status quo: this is the difference between us and them. We call on you and your Government, Mr President, not to hesitate and to proceed with a gentle but determined step towards a change that must involve all levels and all responsibilities in our society. Mr President, follow this path of change; the League will loyally support it, and we will finally make the transition between the second and third Republics. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u123	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the Government and the programme before us today are quite different from what we would have liked from the ballot boxes of 4 March, and it is not a random consideration of mine. It was very close for Italy to have a genuine Government of change, with a coherent programme, signed by the leaders of the centre-right and a solemn commitment to honour it with regard to the voters. If it had gone in this way - and we almost had - the Italians would now know exactly which Government awaits them, what measures, such as internal, foreign, economic and social policy. The Italians would have a political-led executive, made up of women and men chosen by the people; instead, President, we are called to pronounce on a government that - we have to say - is the mask of many contradictions, the result of a compromise and eighty-eight days of exhausting negotiations, and frankly a bit surreal. A government that reminds us of Harlequin, which presents colors to us in some way familiar and others that squeal completely with our ideas; so I will tell you right away, Mr President, that we cannot really give you our trust. Don't feel bad about it. His speech is a shining example of rhetorical communist place, understood as a dose beyond the threshold of commonplaces. The programme that you have presented to us today shows the thing but not the when, let alone the how; and let it never be indicated with what money: verbal commitments, slogans, in the face of no budgetary commitment. President, from words to deeds, please. Beautiful, beautiful words about women who are good and discriminated against, but how many women are in your government? [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] Where is the Minister of Equal Opportunities? Nice words about the Ministry of the South (there is the little problem that is without wallet, but you put it, so to speak, in cavalry), but where are, in the so-called government contract, the measures, the investments for the South? Where's his plan, your plan for the South? This has also been pointed out by my previous colleagues, but it is not trivial, Mr President-in-Office, Ministers. What are we gonna do with ILVA? Are we working with ArcelorMittal next week or are we converting the ILVA into flower fields with 10,000 people on foot? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] These, Mr President, cannot be just words; they must be done tomorrow morning (yes, last night). Contradictions, many contradictions That's the amount of your program. And then statist, regressive, judicialist measures - then I explain to you, Mr President, what we mean by justiceism, if you have a moment of patience - which conflict with our model of social economy and market that is close to the needs of people in order to subtract power from the state and return it to the citizens. This is our model: the model of the European People's Family to which we belong and we remind you, of those who ruled with us, of the whole House, who, precisely from the ranks of this family, our President Berlusconi was the first to denounce the limits of Europe. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , to say that there was a need for a Europe closer to the citizens, more courageous in economic policies, less austere, more flexible, more expansive, more authoritative: a person able to express himself on the global scenario with one voice. But precisely because, Mr President, we know Europe and its pitfalls - for having lived them on our skin - I say to you that the list of good intentions you have expressed with respect to the way in which it is changed is a deception to the good faith of the Italians, if you believe or make it believe that it is enough to enunciate them. It is legitimate to renegotiate economic policies, of course, you said so in reply, but we also need to know how to do it, how to put them into practice, in spite of the lock of the unanimous vote for the amendment of the Treaties, the qualified majority for the amendment of the regulations. How are you going to convince Europe? It's just words for now. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Other measures proposed by the majority that made possible the birth of its Government come from the program subscribed by the center-right united, so we recognize them, but we cannot fail to notice that they are deformed by the requests for correction of the Movimento 5 Stars. One example is the flat tax (even some colleagues in the League have mentioned it today), a strange flat tax that is no longer flat, which no longer refers to families and people, who speak to businesses, who have already applied it for some time, even if only in part, much sacrificed on the altar of compromise with the Movimento 5 Stars. Obviously, it was necessary to give space to a measure that with flat tax is in contradiction: the income of citizenship, understood as a subsidy to rain that discourages from the search for work (of this we are deeply convinced) a demagogic measure taken by the victims that will split the country in two! [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups]] President, you want to give two billion to employment centres; 556 employment centres employing 8,000 people, for a place of 600 million euros a year. For the time being, only less than 3% of the people who have addressed them have been satisfied with their demands: another two billion to these centres that occupy only those who work there? [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups]] Obviously, we must remove from one side in order to put on the other; in fact, pensions are expected to be cut above a certain threshold, corresponding to payments made, meat and blood of the Italians, rights matured in entire working lives. You are cutting Italian pensions to make citizenship income: Say it! Say it, please. [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups]] And now we come to your question about what is justiceism: the certainty of punishment? No, President, justiceism is not the certainty of punishment: it is the infinite processes, it is the limitless interceptions; it is the lives of people, it is the reputation of people, it is the heritage of people, it is the family life, professional life, reputational of people on the table of an infinite judge! Untolerable! [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups]] This is justiceism: the punitive and non-reeducational function of punishment. You have spoken modestly of an undercover agent, but the government contract that you will have to perform - I give you a word - also includes the provocative agent, that is, the gentleman or the lady who is authorized to commit crimes to commit other crimes. This is justiceism! [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups]] An aberration for a people's lawyer! [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups]] Mr President, with all due respect, we have not had the pleasure, before today, of confronting you on this programme, you who call yourself a lawyer for the people. We did not have the pleasure of seeing you among the people asking for the people's consent in the election campaign simply because you were not there. [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups]] He was focused on his work as a lawyer not of the people, legitimately, on his academic work, as before you other Presidents of the Technical Council, in a completely legitimate way. On the other hand, we have the pleasure of knowing you now, as the executioner of a program written by others, that you tell (you have the tasks brought from home) as a lawyer of your Vice Presidents; also this legitimate, but President, I say this once again: massive doses of reality. We wish you good work in the interest of the country. It will not be easy for you to face up to the first important events of international politics. He will be able to use the excellent support of Foreign Minister Moavero Milanesi, but be careful because, from the G7 to the European Council at the NATO Summit in July, only if the choices are right and shared will the interest of the country be realized. We strongly suggest the spirit of Sea Practice: handshakes, no unnecessary punches on the table. [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups]] Every time Italy's interest is at stake, we and our leader Berlusconi have never backed out, but the choices are right and shared. Mr President, on the subject of opposition, I very much appreciate your clarification, but allow me to make one more. Listening personally in Parliament to the opposition that tries to communicate something to you is not a kind concession of yours. It is provided by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure that you and your Government listen and respond. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] These are the rules of democracy, of the Constitution and of the Regulations, which you must know well to be in this House. Then I confess to you - with this I begin to conclude - that we have many doubts about the ability that ministers, from the formation and ideas so disparate (technical, bureaucrat, politicians and neophytes), can produce effective and consequent government action. There are parts of the programme that we consider to be too superficial, but you said so yourself; it was a point-by-point list, obviously not exhaustive. I have not heard of culture, tourism, universities, research, development and not because I was distracted: I listened very carefully. President, one of your Vice Presidents has said in the past few days that you were making history. To those who govern, in reality, we ask first of all that they be content to say that they want to change the world without beginning by changing the truth. At least the truth. Leave her to us. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] So far we have seen too many announcements in this House too. President, the conclusion is that you will not have our trust and remember that our opposition is always fair and fair. Our figure is respect and responsibility. We will counter the harmful measures; we will work to improve those beneficial to Italy and the Italians. In democracy it is the people themselves who choose their lawyers, as they choose their representatives. You weren't chosen as a lawyer or a representative. This role still has to win it all. As for us, we will do our part without discounts, in the interests of the people whom - we do - we represent. Good work and live Italy! [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] . Many congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u124	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u126	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you are following us from home, as Mr Candiani will refrain from commenting on the hard-working and false speech of the Democratic Party. You are the past; we are now talking about the future. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] We were looking for a door to go out; we were prisoners in the dark. We thought we couldn't do it; we were told that the windows and doors were walled up; that there was no exit. Then we heard a stream of words and thoughts coming from who knows where (from outside, from inside, from the net and from the squares); they were words of peace, but at the same time warriors. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We used them as torches in the dark, as keys to turn into the lock to go elsewhere, to unknown places, to ourselves. Now we're out; we're out in the light and we're not quite used to it yet. Mr Conte, thanks to you today we have heard echoing words that we had never heard in this House (or at least my generation never had the opportunity) with a firm, determined, passionate and clear will to achieve what they expressed. Here, what we have heard today are words of peace, but at the same time warrior words. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I do not hide the emotion of being able to express, on behalf of the 5 Star Movement Group, the vote of confidence to the Government of change, even more convinced after having listened carefully to the intentions of this Government. It's not trusting a government, it's trusting a country project. I am not talking to you, Mr President, about a simple individual motion. As spokesperson and as a citizen today I feel something much deeper and more powerful. My thoughts, on a day like today, cannot fail to go to the two people thanks to whom all this became possible: Gianroberto Casaleggio and Beppe Grillo, who taught us that what you can dream can be done. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Today is the day when the realization of a dream of so many citizens begins: the dream of a more just country, the dream of a more civilized country, the dream of a normal country of which to be proud again; a dream that started more than ten years ago, from the first V-day, in which, together with hundreds of thousands of other citizens, we were in the square to manifest all our frustration, indignation, anger, with a liberating cry against a whole generation of politicians who dusted this country and mortgaged the future of the new generations. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If we are here today it is thanks to those citizens who, since then, have joined, on the net and in the squares, giving their time and energy, for an extraordinary project without asking anything in return. By believing all together in change, we ourselves have become change. We are citizens who become states and take over the country. And I claim it! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It wasn't an easy route. In these five years in Parliament we have never given up a millimeter. We never gave up, because we knew that the road was the right one, because millions of Italians wanted to get rid of the rubble that the old political class had left us. Now the challenges of the government open before us. The formation of the government and the confidence that we are preparing to vote are only the first step, because every goal is only a new beginning. And this is where the road to the real change of the country starts. I am speaking to you, Mr President, about the real change, about the real impulse that this Government will have to push for, because this time it is different from the past. In the past we have been deceived with terms such as renewal or destruction: empty words and without a real content. Today we have heard on our skin the breeze of the new air that we will breathe. Today the change is based on a government contract, sanctioned black on white by political formations winning exits from the elections of 4 March; a contract verifiable and known to all; no secret rooms, no Nazarenes with secret arrangements to divide armchairs and favors between lobby, friendly companies and banks. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] ; a change based on a number of clear measures; a citizens' government serving citizens. There are many challenges ahead: the world of work and business; first of all, the far-sighted choice of this Government to propose a single political guide for the Ministries of Labour and Economic Development, led by the political leader of the Movimento 5 Stars, to whom I, on behalf of the whole Group, wish you well for the challenges you will face. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In the same way, I wish all my colleagues with whom we have fought so many battles over the years, always in the interests of the citizens. Two are the realities, the work and the economic development, that go in the same direction: not only in the resolution of the many company crises in progress, in which often the right of the worker is opposed to the economic-company choices of the property, but also in the perspective of the future, the progress and the development of the country. From here comes the wise choice to unite, under a single political direction, those two Ministries. Too many times we have heard it say: create jobs. Jobs are not created out of nowhere by fiscal artifices or by the creation of public precariousness. It is not by doping the system that the first article of the Constitution is achieved. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Work is created by creating development, and that is sustainable development; not growth in its own right, which can be measured exclusively by economic parameters or by profit for the few, but by sustainable development that can bring greater general well-being to the citizens, which puts the person at the centre and the improvement of personal, environmental and social conditions. The Government of Change will have to restore dignity to those who have worked for a lifetime and return to attracting its young people to return to them a proper job and hope for their own tomorrow. That goes from building the architecture of an intelligent state, able to face the great economic changes and opening up new employment opportunities. Whoever ruled us so far has always looked back. We have a duty, Mr President, to look forward. It is necessary to strengthen the employment centres, which are the public tool in which the State should facilitate the encounter between the demand and the supply of work; which has never happened and which will be at the center of the action of the Government of change, and then reach the heart of the social proposal of Movimento 5 Stars: the income of citizenship, which will be a real economic maneuver in order to restart the country together with the reduction of the tax pressure on the companies; two paths that must be started at the same time to allow - on the one hand - to give breath to those companies that today still want to believe in this country and - on the other hand - allow that part of population that is increasingly poor not to remain on the margins of society. No one has to stay behind, and so it will be. No one has to stay behind, and so it will be. No citizen will be left alone, whether it be an entrepreneur besieged by creditors because of the State, a citizen who lost his job, or a mother who had a child. No one has to stay behind. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] We will have to rebuild this country from the foundations, starting from its history, its beauty and its people, rediscovering it for what has been in the past: cradle of civilization, culture, intelligence and genius. There is another subject which has been raised loudly from the polls and from the citizens. I am referring to the issue of security. This is an important challenge, which will see the Ministry of the Interior at the forefront, led by the political leader of the League. I also wish him every success on behalf of the Group. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] Today, citizens are calling for greater security, which means greater freedom. The two concepts are not zero-sum because, if one increases, the other also increases. Greater security is greater freedom. Security is not only what protects us from micro-criminality and the hateful crimes that take place every day in our cities. Security is also that of citizens who must be protected from the greatest cancer that this country, the Mafia, is going through. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] Mafia that subtly creeps into the folds of a state that has abdicated to its role as guarantor of freedom, security, a fair trial and a certain penalty; Mafia that too often goes hand in hand with corruption, other cancer of this country. The initiatives you have listed, Mr President, are in this direction. There are many things to say, but there is little time. I believe that the passion with which this House has accepted every commitment that this Government has undertaken makes it clear how much work there is to do, how much expectation and how much will to get to work there are. Quoting L.O.Z., "A tree whose trunk can barely be embraced comes from a tiny sprout. A nine-storey tower begins with a pile of land. A long journey of a thousand miles begins with moving a foot. Today the seed of change is sown. [[Comments of the Senator Sudan]] President Conte, the Government of Change faces fundamental challenges. The wish that, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Star Group, I wish to express to you and to all the Ministers is that with the same determination and perseverance demonstrated in these years, in which we have never held back an inch, we can restore international dignity to this country and make the lives of citizens better. Let us raise our heads and look to the future, finally, with optimism and hope. We want to be able to go around the world, proud to say we're Italian. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups and Senator Cario. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u127	Pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 94, of the Constitution and the first paragraph of Rule 161 of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote with appeal to Government No. 14, presented by Senators Crimes and Candiani. I would remind you that every senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote under the Presidency. The senators in favour of the trusted motion will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will respond accordingly. She asked to vote first, and I granted it, Senator Secret. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal of this senator. (The said senator responds to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom he will begin to call her. (The name of Senator Sbrana is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Sbrana. (Senator Secretary Carbone and, subsequently, Senator Secretary Pisani make the appeal). (In the course of the voting operations, they take over the Presidency - at 7.54 p.m. - and again - 20.28). The senators: Abbot, Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Anastasi, Angrisani, Arrigoni, Auddino, Agugussori Bagnai, Barbaro, Bergesio, Bogo Deledda, Bonfrisco, Bongiorno, Borghesi, Bossi Simone, Bossi Umberto, Bottini, Botto, Briziarelli, Bruzzone, Buccarella Calderoli, Countryside, Campari, Candiani, Candura, Cantù, Cario, Casolati, Castaldi, Castellone, Castiello, Catalfo, Centinario, Ciampolillo, Cioffi, Coltorti, Corbetta, Corrado, Croatti, Croatti, Crocioli D'Angelo, De Bonis, De Falco, De Lucia, De Vecchis, Dell'Olio, Dessi, Di Girolamo, Di Marzio, Di Nicola, Di Pizza, D'Angelo, D'Angelo, D'Angelo, D'Angelo, D'Angelo, De Bono, D'Florio, D'Engelo, D'Falorio, D'Falmo, De Bonos, D'Faldo Faldo Falco, De Faldo Faldo Falco I declare the vote closed. I invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u128	I declare the result of the roll-call vote with an appeal on the trusted motion No. 14, tabled by Senators Crimes and Candiani: [[Senators present 314 Senators voting 313 Majority 145 Favorable 171 Contrars 117 Absent 25]] The Senate approves. [[Live, sustained applause from the M5S and L-SP groups and government benches. Many congratulations to the President of the Council of Ministers.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u129	The Conference of Leaders is convened on Tuesday 12 June, at 12.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u130	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-9.ana.u131	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 12 June, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.47 p.m.
