ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.03 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Castaldi, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 28 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u3	I communicate that on 28 June 2018 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister of Economics and Finances - Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 79 of 28 June 2018 extending the deadline for the entry into force of the electronic invoicing obligations for the supply of fuel (542).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u6	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of the Brothers of Italy Group to ask the Government to report to the Assembly on the results achieved at the European Council summit last week. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, this issue is expressly regulated by Article 4 of Law No 234 of 2012, where it provides that the Government will inform the relevant parliamentary bodies of the outcome of the European Council meetings within fifteen days (so in this case by next week, as long as one week has already passed). Moreover, the vicious Monti Government applied the practice that both before and after the European Council the Government was audited, which reported in the Chamber on the results. This is particularly important in the light of what has happened in these days and in particular yesterday and today. I am referring, for example, to the central issue of immigration, since yesterday the German Government, as the newspapers report, was saved by an agreement that expressly provides for the refusal of migrants to the first port country, then to Italy. Ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian Government responded today by saying that, if the German Government applies the agreement by rejecting migrants, the Austrian Government will in turn close the Brenner border with Italy and a few minutes ago Minister Moavero replied that if this happens Austria will assume its responsibilities. In a few hours we have therefore learned that what was decided and flagged at the European Council and immediately afterwards, unfortunately does not correspond to reality. Moreover, if we look at the statements of the various Premier or Presidents of the countries of the European Union who participated in the summit, everyone has won and everyone has said something different: we are therefore in the presence of a Babel, whose results, however, Italy expressly pays them, as demonstrated in these hours by the agreements reached in the German Government, the Austrian Government's replies and the difficulty of Minister Moavero to respond to the German and Austrian Executive. We therefore call on the Government to report to the House on this and also on the other very important aspect of the European Council, which has passed in second order and which concerns the economic aspects, on which nothing has been said to us, also because nothing has been done in relation to the resolutions of the majority and the commitments of the Government solemnly taken in this House. I refer, for example, to what has been decided on the limits of the credit losses of banks, which will hit and drown the Italian credit institutions, as well as to what has been decided on the European Monetary Fund, which will also have repercussions in the future for the Italian public debt. In conclusion, what has been said in this House, what has been written in the Government contract and what has been reiterated in the majority resolution on duties to Russia has been blatantly denied in the decisions of the European Council endorsed by Italy. I would like to ask the Italian Government and the friends of the League specifically how this is reconciled with what was written in the programme contract on Russia as a trading partner and with what was voted by this House, where, in the majority resolution, it was written that sanctions had to be remodelled, so as to exclude small and medium-sized enterprises or the agri-food sector from their scope. It is clear to me that this commitment by the majority, solemnly taken in this House and reiterated by Prime Minister Conte, has been resoundingly denied by the automatic extension of sanctions against Russia, which will hit, as a retaliation already planned, small and medium-sized enterprises and the Italian agri-food sector, which is in fact very alarmed at what will happen further in the coming weeks. In short, Mr President, I would ask you to participate in the next few days, within the fifteen days prescribed by the rule of law, to report to the House, as the previous governments had done, in compliance with the statements made by the President of the Council at the time of confidence, which would have been - he did - truly respectful of the prerogatives of this House. We ask here to explain the meaning of that agreement at European level, to give a single reading of that agreement and to explain how it is possible that, after that agreement, European countries are planning the rejection of migrants in the first port countries and therefore in Italy, even recalling the closure of internal borders within the European Union. [[Applause from the FdI Group and the Senators Aimi and Barboni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u7	Senator Urso, I will report your request to the President. Tomorrow, however, there will be a meeting of the group presidents.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u10	PITTELLA (PD). Mr President, I rise to express our support, as a Democratic Party, for the request just made by Senator Urso. We believe that it is necessary and urgent for the Prime Minister to report to this House on the outcome of a European Council that is so stressed and marked as I do not know what the outcome is. It seems to me that the outcome of this summit is more like a report than a unitary document; a report in which everyone has noted their position in order to sell it to their public opinion. Moreover, what is happening in Germany in these hours and also in the relationship with Austria, with the possible closure of borders and with the sudden response that Minister Salvini is giving to all these developments, saying that so much is good for us to close our borders, killing one of the greatest achievements of Europe and Italy, which is freedom of movement and causing great economic and social damage to Italian citizens, all this deserves the attention of this House. Come, Count, and tell us about the African Union summit that ended yesterday. We cannot talk about Africa only when we are interested because migrants and asylum seekers come from there. If we really care about Africa, Africa demands our attention every day [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u13	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, I support the request that the Government report on the outcome of the European summit. The same President of the Count Council, referring here before the summit itself, had spoken of it as an epochal moment, an extremely important turning point, which would have been - as he said - determined also by the government he chaired. We believe that it is appropriate to hear these results which, as has been mentioned, are quite different from those expected and very articulated. It would therefore be extremely positive if President Conte followed the same practice - as has rightly been said - by the President of the Monti Council, referring to the outcome of the summit, so as to understand whether there really was a connection between what the Senate voted for, committing the Government in a certain direction, and what the Government has supported, not to mention what it has achieved, at European level. It seems to us that it has achieved very little, but, precisely to give the President of the Council the power to explain it, I believe that what we are talking about would be a very good opportunity - and I must also say that it is fully appropriate from an institutional point of view - to talk about the consequences with regard to immigration, the economy and the sanctions against Russia. It was an extremely important summit and it is important for Parliament to be informed about it and, through Parliament, all Italian citizens. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u14	The next item is the debate on draft law No 488, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Puglia, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u15	Mr President, the draft law No 488 - Conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 44 of 9 May 2018 concerning urgent measures for the further financing of the interventions referred to in Article 1, paragraph 139, of Law No 205 of 27 December 2017, as well as for the completion of the plans for new industrialization, recovery or job retention related to corporate crises, approved by the Chamber of Deputies, allows, for 2018, the refinancing of social shock absorbers by way of derogation in areas of complex industrial crisis. These areas are subject to economic recession and unemployment loss of national importance and with significant impact on national industrial policy. In this regard, it should be noted that the complexity may arise either from a crisis of one or more large or medium-sized enterprises, with effects on the input, or from serious crises in a specific industrial sector, with a high degree of specialisation on the territory. In such areas, article 44, paragraph 11-a, of Legislative Decree no. 148 of 2015, has previewed the possibility to grant an intervention of Cassa Integrazione extraordinary gains by way of derogation, on the basis of specific agreements concluded in government, for the biennium 2016-2017 and within the limit of certain resources. Subsequently the law n. 205 of 2017 has previewed the use of the recalled resources, not used in the biennium 2016-2017, also in 2018 (in particular, article 1, paragraph 139), as well as the faculty for the Regions to extend specific treatments of Cassa Integrazione gains in derogation (Article 1, paragraph 145). It is emphasized in particular that with the measure under consideration, in the first place, they are added to the financial resources in 2018 for the treatments of Cassa Integrazione gains extraordinary in derogation and mobility in derogation, for the recalled areas, pursuant to article 1, paragraph 139, of the law n. 205 of 2017, ulterior 9 million euros, for the specific occupational situations in the Sardinia Region (article 1, paragraph 1). The Social Fund for Employment and Training, referred to in Article 18 (1) (a) of Decree-Law No 185 of 2008 (Article 1, paragraph 2). Therefore, the draft law in question has some interventions in the field of social shock absorbers by way of derogation, and in particular consists of three articles. In reference to article 1, I remember that for the Region of Sardinia are recognized are the areas of complex industrial crisis that of the industrial pole of Portovesme and that of Porto Torres. It is therefore necessary to carry out further financing of the resources allocated to social shock absorbers by way of derogation in these areas, as for the Region of Sardinia the resources allocated are insufficient to guarantee the planned objectives. In order to ensure the continuation for a further six months of mobility treatments by way of derogation due to expire on 30 June 2018 for a crowd of 1,000 workers, 9 million euros are allocated for 2018 to the Social Fund for Employment and Training. The following Article 2 clarifies the financing of the extensions of Cassa Integrazione Guadi treatments by way of derogation adopted by the Regions by 2017, pursuant to Article 1, paragraph 145, of Law No 205 of 27 December 2017. This clarification is necessary in order to overcome application difficulties resulting from the wording so far in force which could create an unjustified difference in treatment between identical factual situations. The news also specifies that the financing is also allowed in cases where the Regions have adopted the extension after 31 December 2016, provided that it concerns processing which expires by 31 December 2016. It remains firm that the duration of the extension may not exceed the limit of 31 December 2017. I recall in this regard that, pursuant to paragraph 145 above, the extensions could be adopted by the Regions for a maximum period of twelve months in order to complete plans of new industrialization, recovery or keeping employment within the maximum limit of 50% of the resources allocated to the Regions. Article 3 shall enter into force. Finally, I would like to point out that, during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, only a technical rewording of paragraph 1 of Article 1 has been made in order to clarify that the planned appropriation is made with reference to 2018. I would also remind you that the decree-law under consideration has been scheduled in the Chamber just this week because - be careful - the terms for the conversion to law expire on Sunday 8 July. In addition, I would stress that each Group has expressed its opinion in favour of the measure, albeit with its own reasons, and that the Government has undertaken to accept several agendas whose contents are also dear to the majority. I therefore hope that we will have a happy willingness to do so, and that it will result in a rapid examination of the measure in this House, because it is an extension of the measures already in place and, I repeat, unanimously supported by all the groups. Mr President, I have finished my report. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u16	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Bossi Simone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 44 of 9 May 2018 introducing urgent measures for the interventions referred to in Article 1, paragraph 139, of the Law of 27 December 2017, n. 205, as well as for the completion of the plans for new industrialization or job retention related to company crises sees us engaged with reference to the serious problem in the areas of industrial crisis, one of the most serious problems that the world of work is again facing. Today we face this problem by entering specifically the two areas of Sardinia, but tomorrow it could concern others with the same specificities and problems, all areas subject to strong economic recession and loss of employment that mark a great wound on our industrial policy not only for the territory in consideration, but for the whole of our nation. All the large and medium-sized enterprises now face a serious problem which leaves not only the same companies concerned on the ground, but also a large number of hundreds of other companies connected to them in the production industry, which is important and made of many realities, whose losses mark deep down an increasingly difficult wound to heal for the whole industrial system. For these simple reasons, from 2015 and in the years to come until the current year, the Regions have been given the right to request the extension of these treatments by way of derogation. With this decree-law we go, therefore, to add additional resources to refinance these requests. Responsiblely asked to allocate EUR 9 million in order not to leave a thousand families of workers out of work and, therefore, without an income. Reflection is and must be immediate. Here we are talking about a very dear topic, gentlemen, we are talking about work, that work that needs dignity, guarantees, attention and serious planning! To do this you don't need magic wands or professors, you just need one thing: good will. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] The same will that has been lacking to previous governments, the simple will to make choices for what is right; the same will that today must lead us to reflect not only on the welfare issue of social shock absorbers, but above all seriously on the future of companies and workers. This new method should primarily concern regional administrators in the areas concerned, who should, to date, feel obliged to give serious and dignified consideration to their administrative work. In fact, I do not believe that decrees such as what we are dealing with can solve a long-standing crisis like the one that Sardinia is experiencing today, but I understand the need for it. The resources already allocated I believe that today can only be of help and represent an immediate breath of air to the industry and to the Sardinian workers. We hope, finally, for the good of all citizens, that from now on, with our team in the government and with our ideas spent on the field, in a responsible and constructive way we can bring back the working system to the center of the government agenda and the world of work towards a normal life in a normal country. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u18	Senator Laus is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u19	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the measures we are about to vote on contribute to the composition of the framework of instruments that the previous Government had put in place to accompany inevitable processes of industrial transition by finalising them with the recovery and maintenance of employment. Allowing also for 2018 the financing of social shock absorbers by way of derogation, especially in areas of complex industrial crisis as in this case, means in fact having understood the absolute need to create conditions, even temporal ones, so that conversion and redevelopment can really be carried out. Because only with reasonable conditions can the start of more structural policies become credible, policies capable of leaving behind the emergency and the exceptional nature of the decrees, policies that, moreover, cannot be without a careful monitoring of the results obtained with legislative interventions. It is a circular process or a process that gives meaning to the common expression "close" the circle. So the Government that preceded it had thought and so calibrated it, to give breath back to the companies, hope to the workers and overall a future perspective otherwise unimaginable to entire segments of our economy, in a logic of business continuity and employment that would respond to well-defined plans, but at the same time did not risk being mortified by the rigidity of the norms. The numbers of the MISE do not lie: there are dozens of cases in which the PD-led Executive, especially in the last three years, with this and other instruments of government has been able to close the circle, in the sense of the logic of business continuity and employment that I was talking about. Unfortunately - alas, unfortunately - neither continuity nor even less logical are terms in use in the vocabulary of the yellow-green formation leading the country. So much so that the Minister Di Maio with one hand pats himself on the shoulders for the achievement of results not his (I think of the TIM, but, there is to bet, soon also for the decree-law that we are converting) and with the other hand points the index against the jobs act, which also is a piece of that same picture of instruments to which today's provision belongs. A fervent preacher of logicless discontinuity, the Minister chose to sacrifice on the altar of propaganda the million jobs recovered from his predecessors, branding them as the result of a measure "drain precarious", a measure to be dismantled and also quickly, literally from evening to morning. This is what he said in his statements as a corollary to the Istat data on the growth of the employment rate. Dismantling quickly, because if, in the meantime, someone from outside were to point out the value of continuity, especially in terms of business and employment, the Minister would be forced to apply logic. And the logic would like that, instead of struggling to dismantle, he would worry about finding a way to secure those places, a way to stabilize them, so as to move on to phase two and progressively reverse the relationship between precarious work and stable work, a challenge that is not won by propaganda, especially when you govern. It has been years - I take advantage of it because it is an opportunity - that the Minister Di Maio and the Movimento 5 Stars continue to read to the Italians the famous dictation of Article 36 of the Constitution, which gives dignity to the workers. And Minister Di Maio is aware that there are collective agreements in our country signed by comparatively and more representative trade union organizations, whose hourly pay is 4, 5, 6 or 7 euros. And in these years... AIROLA (M5S). Laus, you're the one doing this! Shame on you! You have to be ashamed! Mr Laus (PD). Turn that gentleman off, turn that gentleman off. [[Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u20	I beg you... Look, it sounded like a calm surgery, even if it was stentoreo. Have a seat, Senator Airola. [[Comments of Senator Airola]] I'll call you back to order, Senator Airola, have a seat. [[Comments of Senator Airola]] Senator Airola, I'm calling you back to order for the second time. FARAONE (PD). Sit down! VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. A Tavor for that gentleman! [[Comments from Senators Pharaoh and Mirabelli.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If he insists, I'll expel him. First, however, it must be called to order, as is the case with the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me, ma'am, did you send him out? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Laus, continue. You've got one more minute, and I'm gonna let you make up for your time before the interruption. Mr Laus (PD). I have to catch up, and I'd like to apologize to the gentleman, who was screaming... president. Talk to the Assembly. Mr Laus (PD). Thank you, Mr President. AIROLA (M5S). Excuse me, president. That's enough. It's also ridiculous to step in with your hands like a funnel. Where are we? [[Comments of Senators Laus and Mirabelli]] He's lost his clarity! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What do I do? He's one. Let's move on, then calm down. Please, finish Senator Laus.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u21	Mr President, you were very kind. I keep thinking. I said that they waved flags and explained what Article 36 of the Constitution says and today, in the so-called Dignity Decree, not by mistake, but by arson, the Minister was careful to include the minimum wage, because he needs financial cover. There are three or four million workers on behalf of the public administration who provide services and, at the end of the month, their remuneration is less than the famous EUR 780 provided for by the so-called and beloved citizenship income. We must therefore agree on what it means to attribute dignity to the word, because language is a convention. The Minister and the Government have moral duty... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u22	Finish it, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u23	LAUS (PD)... to respond to those workers. This is called dignity for me and the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u24	Senator Airola, remember that it is now part of the majority and, therefore, it is not necessary to scream, as in old habit.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u25	[[Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u26	Senator Pizzol is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the agenda provides for the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 44 of 9 May 2018 introducing urgent measures for the further financing of the interventions referred to in Article 1... [[Senator Airola's comments at the address of the PD Group. Lively protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u28	He's out of the Chamber. [[Comments from Senators Pharaoh, Laus and Mirabelli.]] I didn't hear the sentence, but I saw the gesture. I will report to the President for any measures, if deemed necessary. I repeat, however, that I saw the gesture, but I did not hear the phrase. Please, Senator, resume your intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u29	. ..as well as for the completion of plans for new industrialization, recovery or job retention related to company crises. The measure allows to refinance social shock absorbers by way of derogation from complex industrial crisis areas, also for 2018. These are areas located in subject territories and economic recession with a loss of employment of national importance and a significant impact on national industrial policy. The complexity of the problem can result from crises of one or more large or medium-sized enterprises, with effects on the induced, or from serious crises of a specific industrial sector with high specialisation on the territory. In these areas, Article 44, paragraph 11-a, of Legislative Decree no. 148 of 2015 provided for the possibility of granting an intervention of extraordinary earnings cash integration, as well as mobility by way of derogation, on the basis of specific agreements concluded in government for the two-year period 2016-2017 and within the limit of certain resources. Law No 205 of 2017 provided that the Regions may use in 2018 resources not used in the two years 2016-2017 and the possibility to extend specific treatments of Cassa Integrazione Guadagni and Mobility by way of derogation. Article 1 of the decree-law that today we are preparing to convert highlights the need to proceed to an ulterior financing of 9 million euros for the resources destined to the social shock absorbers in derogation because, in the specific case of the Region of Sardinia, the resources allocated are insufficient to guarantee the planned objectives. This will be borne by the Social Fund for Employment and Training. The allocation of 9 million euros to the complex crisis areas of Sardinia will serve for the continuation of the treatments of social shock absorbers for a period of six months, as the previous ones have already expired on 30 June. The audience of the possible beneficiaries of the measure identified by the Region of Sardinia amounts to about a thousand workers, for a cost of about 1.500 euros each, of which 1.000 euros for the treatment and 500 euros for the figurative contribution, for a total total of 9 million euros. The measure provided for in Article 2 was necessary in relation to the delay in regional assistance for granting the treatment to be extended. It does not entail new or higher charges, as the resources already allocated to the Region are used pursuant to Article 44, paragraph 6-a, of Legislative Decree No 148 of 14 September 2015, which constitute a limit of expenditure. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this measure reminds us of the serious industrial and employment crisis in our country. Personally, I hope for the birth of an industrial policy... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u30	It is a hope that we share.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u31	[[Protests from the L-SP Group]] I didn't take the word off her, but the microphone went off. In any case, the reasoning was conclusive. Mr Pizzol (L-SP). Mr President, I should like to conclude. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Would you like to finish again? So, please. Mr Pizzol (L-SP). Personally, I hope that a forward-looking industrial policy will be reborn, protecting Italian excellence and finally defending them against unfair competition from foreign countries and their wage dumping. Work is essential for Italians of all ages. It is a flywheel that generates well-being and confidence in the future. Its lack, in addition to generating difficult economic repercussions in the lives of individuals and their families, takes away any prospect and hope in the future. [[Applause from the L-SP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u32	It is not mandatory to read all the written text. Sometimes you also have to be able to synthesize.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u33	Senator Siclari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a measure which is only concerned with extending social shock absorbers; a decree-law that does not address any of the problems related to the deindustrialisation crisis in certain areas of the country. The amendments and agendas presented by Forza Italia - amendments that will not be approved for the rule imposed by this imperfect bicameralism - intend to widen the audience of beneficiaries of social shock absorbers by way of derogation provided for in favour of workers so that, pending the recognition of a complex industrial crisis area, the industrial pole of Ottana, which we consider of great importance for the economy of Sardinia and our country, is concluded. Similarly, the decree of dignity you have drawn up does not address any of the country's structural issues and continues to postpone the problems. I shudder in the face of so much pre-election demagogy and continues in the announcements of the Government, which in practice, however, works contrary to the announcements themselves, stiffening the labour market and punishing entrepreneurs. Hard and worried criticism came from Confindustria, which states: It's science fiction, a return to the past. From Confesercenti, who says: "Deep dissatisfaction for businesses." Lost by more than 100 million people and Confcommercio, who says: It introduces unnecessary and harmful rigidity. Serious step backwards. At this point I wonder: in which country do you think we are living? The economy of our country and of our companies and the workers are at risk and you take as your target to punish our small and medium-sized enterprises and even those workers who seek certainty in the companies in which they work. Gentlemen, entrepreneurs want to grow, it is in their nature, in their culture, in their way of thinking and working and they have the desire to establish important working relationships with their collaborators, even indefinitely. But you are looking in the wrong direction. You are implementing a policy contrary to that expectation. Entrepreneurs need incentives to be encouraged to hire, not laws that tend to punish the entrepreneur in their relationship with the worker. Put yourself in the shoes of workers and entrepreneurs. The measure discourages the continuity of the relationship, contrary to what Di Maio claims. You started backwards: from punishments to entrepreneurs and not incentives. You are working for a decree of dignity that mortifies precisely the dignity of entrepreneurs and the hopes of workers to have an indefinite contract. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u35	Senator Carbone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u36	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the measures we are debating today are aimed at modifying - even for six months only - the treatment of extraordinary wage integration in favour of a thousand workers in the complex crisis areas of the Region of Sardinia; workers who, otherwise, would be treated unfairly or would lose the treatments necessary to protect themselves and their families. The current treatment expired on 30 June, as the resources allocated to complex crisis areas are in the process of being exhausted and do not allow the continuation of the treatment in question for the workers involved. This measure, voted by our colleagues in the House on 14 June, compresses the areas of intervention, but above all it could have begun to mark a different direction than that of change, the famous change that the Movimento 5 Stars continues to flag without achieving tangible results. Compared to the theme of social shock absorbers, we believe that more could have been done and better to give a wider certainty to companies that still suffer the bites of the crisis and struggle to recover. Today the system of protection of unemployment remains anchored in traditional approaches, largely inadequate and unable to respond to the changes that have occurred due to the too long economic recession in recent years. If it is true, in fact, that the ratio for which the integration fund is one of the most virtuous instruments, it is also true that it often announces dramatic closures of the companies. The numbers speak for themselves: in our country, only in 2017, 162 industrial disputes were opened, with over 180,000 workers involved; 180,000 workers, fathers and mothers of families, young and unfortunately even less young, forced to survive, not to live. Over the last five years the above measures have not been a sufficient social accompaniment to relaunch, but genuine eviction notices. To the new government and above all to the new Minister of Labour and Social Policy we ask to identify - clearly, if it is capable of it - a system of aid that must represent not a mere welfare, but opportunities for rebirth for companies in crisis. It must be clear that, if this intervention is aimed at achieving some sort of advance of citizenship income, we absolutely do not agree. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] There are already too many metamorphosis of the electoral promise that guaranteed the Movimento 5 Stars the mass vote of the Mezzogiorno. We have started from universal income for all citizens, moving on to the idea - no less monstrously expensive - of the pseudo benefit to the unemployed only, until we arrive at a new turnaround which requires the applicants to provide at least eight hours of free work to the local authorities. Citizenship income is a clever electoral invention that only works once. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Income is produced by working. If the job isn't there, the government's job is to lay the foundation for it. Distributing money to rain is welfare and produces only other unemployment. Italy needs a strong industrial policy to preserve and increase the potential of its production system and an Executive that focuses on public investment to stimulate and attract private, domestic and international investments. All this, unfortunately, does not exist in the government programme, nor in the first measures adopted by it. We will never be able to ask this Government to develop an industrial policy such as that carried out by the Berlusconi Government, which has guaranteed billions in terms of profitability, with the support of consumption and production thanks to incentives for innovation, energy and the green economy. However, we can perhaps ask - indeed, demand - seriousness and move from words to deeds, because, from Italians before even as exponents of a political movement, we believe that it is necessary to give concreteness and answers. Mr President, I shall conclude. To date we have seen so much confusion in this Government that, just a few hours ago, has cast new shadows on the world of enterprise and work with the so-called decree dignity: by decree-laws no jobs are created, but by a decree-law jobs can be destroyed. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In any case, with the responsibility that has always belonged to my political movement, we will not stand up against the future of thousands of families who have already experienced the terrible experience of being without salary. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u37	Senator Bogo Deledda is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I will not go into the technical and legal aspects of this measure, which the rapporteur has already explained a great deal about. I will limit myself to making some observations on the growing of failures, instability and regression of a kind not only socio-economic, but also anthropological and cultural that a certain industrial policy has produced in Sardinia. The industrial landscape created on the island since the 1960s shows limits and a vision of development of the short-sighted territories - to be benevolent - more similar to a sort of industrial colonialism, which has sometimes become fertile ground for crooked and rapacious entrepreneurs. Would the latter have ever come if they had not had public money mines available? [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u39	Colleagues, please allow the proper and smooth conduct of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u40	Please, Senator Bogo Deledda. BOGO DELEDDA (M5S). Thank you, President. Could politicians and shift administrators loyally claim to have done the good of Sardinia today? Or did they do self-referential activity? What has ultimately been the objective achieved in the face of the huge public resources involved and in the evidence of a persistent employment criticality and unfortunately of the documented environmental degradation that originated? We are here today to discuss an emergency measure. This emergency, however, is not occasional and extemporaneous, but is incorporated into the social fabric of Sardinia for decades. Well, as a Sardinian interested in my land contributing actively to the well-being and growth of the entire nation, I reject - I repeat, I reject - any approach still based on Sardinian industrial gigantism, totally alien to our own geographical and infrastructural characteristics. A few days ago, in the other branch of Parliament, someone called bucolic the production routes of agriculture and tourism. Rather, noting the fact that the industrial areas in question coincide with the most extensive sites of national interest (SIN) in Italy, contaminated areas that need immediate reclamation of the soil, the subsoil and the waters, there is little bucolic in the coated postcard of Sardinia that likes those who do not really know it. Sardinia is in the first place with regard to the extent of the polluted areas to be treated: 445,000 hectares compared to 315,000 in Campania, which is in the second place. That's what I'm saying as a Sardinian. As a parliamentary exponent of the Movimento 5 Stars, I reject to the sender the criticisms of opacity, smokeiness, ambiguity and even voidness of our industrial program. The development choices are always in time. Today we are implementing strategies that we must be able to change quickly, in harmony with what is happening in the world and in Italy we are dramatically lagging behind the deburocratization, interoperability, the easing of taxation on companies and compared to the system of protection and retraining of workers, today increasingly exposed to increasing threats of precariousness and social isolation. There are clear measures and implementation elements in the government programme. Citizen's income, much criticized, or even mocked, is a proactive measure that accompanies the worker in an adjustment path to the rapidly changing labour market. It is an active instrument of adaptation to the economic cycle; it is a defence against the illusory theory, translated into fifteen years of progressive and drastic reductions in job protection, according to which more flexibility would create more employment. This is a fundamental step. There is also in the strong and resistant government program the thread of greater national sovereignty on the markets, in order to protect and support the peculiarities of the Italian economic fabric and in defence mainly of workers and quality work. This type of policy is called not state dirigism, but support and increase of national strategic, technological and productive assets. The full achievement of the right to work - I say this to dear Sardinia and to the rest of Italy, especially to its weakest parts - will be implemented with a change of economic and financial governance. Otherwise, if this does not happen, in six months' time or, in any case, in a short time, we will be here again to extend, while we are here to innovate and to accept responsibly, in total, what history now entrusts us. To conclude, and to return to the thousand Sardinian workers and their families, but also to the too many unemployed people in my land - and to them too - the attention which this House reserves for you is not being called into question. But the dignity we were talking about before will be guaranteed, looking at the past and the mistakes made in the past, when the political class will be more forward-looking and less self-referential. Our strategies are aimed, first and foremost, at protecting the delicate balance of the wonderful relationship that must pass between companies and workers, the real engine of Italy: a pact of collaboration of union of intents and, above all, of medium and long-term objectives; therefore, no endorsement of further and new predatory actions on Sardinia. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u41	She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u42	Mr President, the decree-social shock absorbers, which we are discussing today in the Chamber, is one of the last measures of the previous Government, the Government Gentiloni Silveri, made necessary to guarantee the refinancing of social shock absorbers by way of derogation for the complex crisis areas of the Region of Sardinia and, also from the financial point of view, the continuation of the interventions already foreseen by the 2018 budget law, as the rapporteur pointed out before. I recall that the refinancing by way of derogation of the social shock absorbers in the complex industrial crisis areas was provided by one of the implementing decrees of the jobs act, that concerning the provisions for the reorganization of the legislation on social shock absorbers in constancy of employment relationship. So, what we hear in these hours - that is that the first measure of the Government on work dismantles the jobs act - does not correspond to the truth, at least for this provision; but not to the others either. The heart of this measure was to bind for the first time in our country - other than questions of the past, Senator Bogo Deledda - passive policies with those active. We read the measures first and then we can also divide on the solutions. In fact, in order to be admitted to the contribution, the enterprises have the obligation to present a plan of occupational recovery that previews specific paths of active policies of the job agreed with the Region. And here you can also reassure my colleague of the League, Simone Bossi, because the active policies are agreed with the Regions on the basis of this legislation and aimed at the reemployment of workers and workers. Therefore, we do not need a subsidy to support citizens, citizens and entrepreneurs who are in difficulty, but we need a system of services that accompany them throughout their working life. This is the heart of the policies of work today. The change of approach of the labour market reform of our governments has radically changed the way of public intervention - also in this there is a great innovation - in the situations of corporate crises. I would like to mention, for example, the relocation allowance which, under the 2018 Budget Act, has also extended its scope to workers with extraordinary pay integration treatment at risk of redundancies. It is therefore not only measures that are taken once people lose their jobs, but also actions that try to prevent employment crises. Our interventions at work were those, Mr President, to protect workers and workers who lose their jobs and the right to relocation which, as I mentioned earlier, is a right of great dignity. By the way, dignity is a beautiful word, because it has to do with the honor, reputation, respectability of everyone and we are all here, majority and opposition, in this sacred Chamber of the Senate to represent the nation - as our Constitution tells us - and to pass laws that guarantee citizens rights, in harmony with the duties of each of us, so that they can have equal social dignity - a beautiful and founding word of our Constitution - before the law, without distinction of sex, race, language, religion, political opinions, personal and social conditions, as our beautiful article 3 of the Constitution says. We cannot, as the Vice-President of the Council has done, adopt a decree-law as a decree of dignity, because we are all here to decide measures that guarantee equal dignity to our fellow citizens. Dignity is a human concept, a constitutional value and a principle for all of us. I am therefore surprised that this term is being used to appoint a decree-law, which will have to come to Parliament and be discussed. It is dignity that underpins the spirit of the measure we are considering today in this House, which extends social shock absorbers by way of derogation, allocating an additional EUR 9 million for 2018. It stems from the commitment made by the Ministry of Economic Development and the entire previous Government in the course of the management, in particular, of the question of the sincerity. Just last 6 June has successfully closed this dispute with the Court of Auditors, which has given the green light to Invitalia for the subscription of the capital increase of the Swiss company that has taken over the factory of Portovesme. We can say that the previous Government has managed to put back the path a company that until 2012 produced aluminum with a turnover of about half a billion euros and 800 employed, between direct and indirect, and now it is already thought in a first phase to the employment of 370 workers and workers. I would also like to recall on this absolutely symbolic path that 5% of the shares of the new society will go directly to the workers. There is also another issue to be dealt with here in relation to the measure under discussion. I am referring to the question of duties to safeguard the fabric of production and made in Italy. We need to take care of this. We need to know what the government thinks about duties. In the election campaign we heard contradictory statements, especially on the political side, the League; while yesterday's words of the President of the Republic are very beautiful when he hoped that the sudden tariff season would not have an excessive development in the economies of our countries, which have everything to gain from an open economy. What will happen to a world with closed economies and tariffs? What about protecting our industrial system in a closed world? What will happen to companies such as Sernam with duties on aluminum and steel? Together with the European Union, the Italian Government must have an idea and a policy on this. I conclude by saying that this measure will - as the rapporteur has also announced and as the debate in the Commission has shown - have the agreement of all political forces. In this country, Mr President, labour reforms over the years have been very divisive, very ideological and have also resulted in deaths. It would be nice on some measures to have common views between majority and opposition. What cannot be done is to give illusions to people - this is, in fact, a very important issue - as I believe we are preparing to do with the measure that was passed to the Council of Ministers yesterday. But we will talk about this when the first piece of work comes to the House. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u43	Senator Campari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u44	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, I will not enter into this barren controversy with the minority, because it is not worth it and Italy no longer has time for you. It's time to stop. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] Today we treat the conversion into law of Decree-Law No. 44 of 2018, regarding urgent measures in the matter of social shock absorbers by way of derogation, that is, we are going to debate the need to finance, for an additional 9 million euros, a measure of Cassa Integrazione gains by way of derogation, so as to cover the whole of 2018 for 1,000 workers of Sardinia. It is a measure that comes to us from the past and on which we were in practice prevented from intervening because, as has been mentioned, it expires on 8 July. In fact, therefore, any amendment approved would have involved a new move to the House and thus prevented it from falling within the allowed time limits. The measure is very simple and limited, it is a punctual measure; a task coming from the past Government, like many measures that we have become accustomed to seeing in the last legislature. He wears a piece of rag hoping he can hold on. If, on the one hand, it is a measure due to about 1,000 workers (with their families), belonging to two areas, that of Porto Torres and Portovesme (North-West and South-West of Sardinia), recognized as areas of complex industrial crisis, on the other we can not avoid to make some reflections on the fact that in recent years different areas in Sardinian land have been abandoned to themselves and today we find entire areas in a state of deep employment and economic crisis. Little or nothing has been done in recent years to revive the employment of Sardinian workers, indeed. Years of austerity policies have proved to be - as we predicted - highly recessionary and, of course, have contributed to creating the best conditions for a perfect employment storm, indeed a perfect employment tragedy, throughout Italy, including islands of course. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] With this measure we will go to give the 1,000 workers (with their families) a breath of oxygen until the end of the year, but we know very well that in the coming months we will have the burden of going to help in a much more structured way the occupation in Sardinian land. About 1,000 euros per month net to 1,000 workers, about 1,500 euros gross for six months, equal to 9 million euros: well, but after that? Without a doubt Sardinia is a region with a strong tourist vocation and without a doubt the new minister of tourism, Senator Gian Marco Centinario, with whom we congratulate for the new assignment and to which we make our most felt good luck [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] , will be able to enhance even more this inclination. But we cannot think that the whole island, inhabited by more than one and a half million souls and third in Italy by extension after Sicily and Piedmont, can depend on a single sector, albeit driving. Therefore, we must rethink the potential of the island, trying to enhance its strategic position in the center of the Mediterranean as well as manufacturing excellences, capacities in agricultural and pastoral activities and the development of niche industrial sectors, which could find opportunities for growth here. I would like to thank both the Joint Committee of the House and the 11th Committee of the Regions for their work. Commission of the Senate for the speed with which they were able to dismiss the measure which, in particular, consists of three articles. In the first article are confirmed the industrial poles of Porto Torres and Portovesme which areas of complex industrial crisis and therefore in need of an urgent intervention aimed to extend the extraordinary mobility for the aforementioned 1.000 workers approximately. To this end, the Region of Sardinia is allowed to allocate EUR 9 million from the Social Fund for Employment and Training for the refinancing of social shock absorbers by way of derogation in those areas, covering the whole of 2018. In the following second article it is clarified that the financing of the extensions of these social shock absorbers is also allowed for the Regions that have adopted the extension after 31 December 2016, provided that it concerns treatments that expire by that date and in any case the duration of the extension does not exceed 31 December 2017. This does not entail new or higher charges because, according to the provisions of Law No 205 of 2017, resources are used that had already been allocated to the two areas in question through the repartition established by Article 44 of Legislative Decree no. 148 of 2015 and that have not yet been completely exhausted. This breakdown took into account all the suspensions or reductions in working time that began before the end of 2016, even if the Region had not yet started the process for the due social shock absorbers that could have started following a specific agreement signed by the parties at the crisis units of the Ministry of Economic Development or the Regions themselves by that date. In practice, the situation which has made this change necessary is the result of a regional delay in the adoption of the measure granting the treatment to be extended. If there had been no such delay, the extension could be adopted in continuity, as already mentioned, on the basis of Article 1 of Law No 205 of 27 December 2017. In short, someone between Regione Sardegna and MISE has a little slept, abbreviated: PD. However, Article 2 overcomes the disparities that would arise between identical factual situations, since they all originate from events prior to 31 December 2016. Finally, in the last article, the law is required to enter into force. I shall conclude, Mr President, with a final comment on the situation of work in Italy. The League is very concerned about the situation it has found. The data that we are shocked about a growing fantasy-employment actually make the photograph of a nation in severe employment difficulties, whose citizens are forced to accept employment contracts in the vast majority of fixed-terms and for very limited periods of time. The fixed position is now a mirage and moreover the reforms desired by Renzi have in fact made even the newly hired indefinitely precarious. But what future can a person plan that the day before doesn't know if the next day he will still have a job? What kind of life is that? We in the League believe that work must become the central theme of this legislature and we will not save energy to reverse the trend. Less layoffs, less welfare and greater commitment to create the conditions necessary for the relaunch of employment, in Sardinia as in all the rest of Italy. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u45	Thank you, Senator, for the synthesis.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u46	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u47	Mr President, I would like to address the Minister who is not here. Mr President-in-Office, at least you listen to us, since we are here and we are in general debate. CRIPPA, State Secretary for Economic Development. I'm here. Mr Rizzotti (FI-BP). The failure of past interventions on our industrial system can be traced back to the fact that they have often been turned to purposes other than those specific to enterprise policy, short-lived, sometimes in conflict with industrial policy objectives. Moreover, the institutional complexity resulting from competition with more skills and the presence around the bargaining tables of a large number of players has not led to a consistent and transparent use of the various instruments. We all know, Mr President, that there is a need for measures to stimulate the economy to reverse the momentum of GDP, which has been negative for too many quarters. But companies - from small and medium-sized companies, which are then those that represent the backbone of our country's economy - do not have the liquidity to cope with such an eventuality. This decree-law represents the last effort, if we can call it that, of the disastrous work of the left to the Government, which tried to respond to the country with reforms that proved to be bankrupt: proof of this are the too many crisis tables that have remained open that have not found any solution. A serious and third-party attitude would have sufficed in the assessment of solutions and, instead, we have been bogged down in issues that have degraded the debate itself, marginalizing the real and serious problems that we are seeing in this House today. We save the salvageable with a derogation, to prevent thousands of families from getting out of work. The art of postponing, that of the past government, I wish it was not the art of not doing, on the part of this government, seen, for example, the debate last week on the decree-law earthquake. Yes, we would have expected some positive signals from the Minister of the Super Ministry (which is not there), but the Super Minister was too focused on increasing the crisis tables of all those companies and enterprises that tomorrow, with the approval of the Decree dignity, will declare bankruptcy by firing their workers. On this let me open a brief parenthesis. So far we have seen a policy of concessions (so the government contract provides): Minister Di Maio allows Minister Salvini to take the scene on migrants to have the pass to a decree of dignity that I really hope the colleagues of the League will read carefully, since, in our opinion, it constitutes a step backwards for the creation of new employment. We do not marvel at the 5 Star Movement, but we are rather surprised at the League, which allows a decree-law to pass into the Council of Ministers which goes in the opposite direction to the centre-right programme presented to our voters. I would also like to make an invitation to the members of the government, since the election campaign is over. When a member of the Government publicly expresses his thoughts, he forgets that there is a "Mr. Market" and a "Mr. Stock Exchange," in addition to others, who listen to him. For example, when the Minister on television says that television is over, in a few hours the company has lost almost 4% of the shares and therefore 90,000 shareholders are paid back. I, these, wouldn't call them strategies, colleague Bogo Deledda. So, we are surprised that they allow themselves to pass without replica attacks on existing companies. In fact, the measures presented in the electoral campaign by the center-right are not in the decree of dignity. It is true that then many statements of the various members of the Government, sometimes fortunately, sometimes less, are denied: let's see, for example, Spadafora's statements to the Gay Pride of Pompeii regarding the statements of the Minister of the family. However, I would say that if this decree of dignity passes, as presented, perhaps we will soon be in this House discussing an increase compared to the EUR 9 million we are debating today for social shock absorbers. The meter income is not abolished, but the current discipline remains in force, postponing everything to date to be allocated. In the meantime, an agreement must be reached with the consumer association and with ISTAT for the investigations to be carried out. The meter is not abolished, providing only for an extension to February 2019 for the presentation of the third quarter 2018. It remains such and as the split payment for companies, which are the ones that create the job and would benefit from a revision of those provisions that, by draining liquidity, penalize them also in relations with their employees to whom they have to pay salaries and premiums, as well as with their suppliers. Therefore, it is a decree-law that, beyond the title (which is not even so clever, but we were accustomed to good school and other titles, so we continue by titles), contains nothing decisive for the problems of the enterprise and defines nothing good that goes towards the creation of new employment, about which I have just heard. Yet, the very problems of the decree-law that we are examining should have led the Government to be more serious in addressing the issues of the world of work in a structural way. Instead, with a directist approach one enters into issues and issues on which even between entrepreneurs and trade unions had already found an agreement. In the name of a fight against the precarious who forgets that the employer assumes because he has a window of opportunity, maybe momentary that could close at the first blow of wind, they will lose opportunity for jobs. We will see what the Government's position will be on the proposal of Forza Italia for the restoration of vouchers, because we are in July and we know that in agriculture and tourism vouchers are an important tool [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , certainly not used as CGIL did for its employees, and we know what we're talking about [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] What good is it to take decisions not to delocalise businesses, as is done in the Dignity Decree, if the rules on recruitment are tightened up, without which companies cannot implement production? Why didn't you try to halve the time for the presentation of the new industrialization plans for all those companies in crisis forced most of the time to relocate? I believe that the summary of the non-intervention of the decree-law under consideration, which my colleagues will be better able to deal with, is that the yellow-green government will not be able to take a structural measure until October, when it is to be confronted with the harsh reality of numbers. The Minister, who is not there, in fact, has in recent days cleared, as useless formal passages, the controls carried out by the various Dicasteries, but perhaps he was not told that the boiling is not exactly that machine that creates the sheets with the air bubbles that are used to wrap the packages. The boiling is a serious and scrupulous verification that carries out the General Accounting of the State. Without these unnecessary formal passages a measure cannot be countersigned by the President of the Republic and, therefore, transmitted to the Chambers for subsequent examination. Therefore, let's be a little more serious because, from now on, we at Forza Italia really hope that from you - we hope not to have to say: "unfortunately" - may depend on the near future of our country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u48	You are registered to speak Senator Nastri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u49	Mr President, the text under consideration, which should also be mentioned here, represents the last decree-law approved by the Government Gentiloni Silveri, the last PD intervention, which reveals serious employment repercussions resulting from the crisis of strategic companies for the economy of the country, confirms also on this occasion how the industrial and business growth policies followed in these years of the government of the left have been inefficient and absolutely modest. Compared to the theme of social shock absorbers, we believe that more and better could have been done to provide, at least in the forecasts, a wider certainty to companies that still suffer from the bites of the crisis and struggle to recover. Today the system of protection of unemployment remains anchored in traditional approaches, which are largely inadequate and unable to respond to the changes that have occurred due to the too long economic recession in recent years. If it is true, in fact, the ratio through which the integration banks are among the most virtuous instruments, it is equally true that the same foretell dramatic company closures. In fact, especially in the last five years, the above measures have not been a sufficient social accompaniment to relaunch, through reductions in labour costs, temporarily not used, but genuine eviction notices. We remember the ILVA of Taranto, the AST of Terni, the Lucchini of Piombino and Trieste, all different realities and, at the same time, united by the economic and financial crisis that the Country has gone through, but above all by the lack - as I said before - of a forward-looking industrial policy that protected Italian excellence and defended them from unfair competition from foreign countries and wage dumping. Analyzing the composition of its regulatory system, the measure, which in fact deals with an extension of existing interventions, is composed of only two articles, plus the one necessary for its entry into force, and provides for the Region of Sardinia a further financing of resources intended for social shock absorbers by way of derogation for an appropriation of 9 million euros for 2018 borne by the Social Fund for employment and training. It should be specified, in this regard, that for the same Region are recognized as areas of complex industrial crisis also those of the industrial pole of Portovesme and Porto Torres and that the audience of the workers concerned is of approximately 1.000 units. The following Article 2 clarifies the financing of extensions of cash-integration benefits by way of derogation, in order to avoid an unjustified difference in treatment between identical factual situations. The failures of the jobs act, which has totally missed the introduction of active labour policies, have been accompanied by social subsidies such as the traditional IGC and the IGC, i.e. new very confused tools to alleviate the hunger for work that the economic crisis has fed. Thus the companies have been (and still are today) forced to close or reduce their activity. And although social shock absorbers cover a fairly variable period of time, sooner or later the possibility of using them is bound to end. In the case of Sardinia, then, the mistake made over the years was to try to extend the industrialization indiscriminately on the whole island, instead of aiming at a serious industrial policy so that industrial conversion and redevelopment projects can be successful. In our opinion, we do not need to follow a standard model for everyone, for all the regions and for all the Provinces, but models that are able to look at the peculiarity and territorial sustainability and, at the same time, we need to abandon the logic of welfare interventions in favour of structural measures, in order to restore the complexity of the industry, promoting productive and innovative investments. Therefore, today's debate on this decree-law is not so much about the rules contained in it, because they - as I have already said - represent a mere extension of the measures already envisaged in favour of workers in the industrial areas mentioned above, but rather the need to understand what policies of growth and recovery in the field of employment in favour of enterprises this tied-up government intends to move forward quickly. An aspect that directly and inevitably involves the world of trade unions, true caste par excellence, who claim to defend the workers, but only those who have a fixed job. The Alitalia affair with last year's referendum, for example, is the emblem of the disaster done to everyone, especially their employees, and has cost the community more than EUR 1 billion. Do we want to remind ourselves that there are companies in crisis because they are not paid and that the debtor is often called a State? Last but not least, in our country there are still companies that have few employees, five or six at most, who are cut off from all forms of income and work support. These are usually not discussed or discussed only in meetings, when it comes to small and medium-sized enterprises, which are certainly the backbone of our economy. We therefore need real development and genuine work policies. That of the social shock absorbers is a problem that in our country has been badly dragged for too long and that today inevitably intertwines with that decree-law called "dignity" that represents an incredible return to the past and that risks leading to the increase of robotization, to the reduction of the time in use of the term contracts and the increase of the overtime in the enterprises, that they risk to go to work somewhere else. It is a very negative signal for the business world; the result will be to have less work, but above all more precarious. The recipe of this Government and Minister Di Maio is to stiffen the labour market and punish those so-called bad entrepreneurs, to fight the precarious. But precarious and unemployment do not fight by decree-law and by punitive measures for businesses. What we need in this country is certainly tax cuts, less bureaucracy, faster and more reliable justice. That's what it's for to create work and fight the precarious. That is what we are asking the government. Real development and genuine work policies are needed. On these issues, decisive for our country, we as Brothers of Italy will watch day and night. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u50	He's enlisted to speak Senator Patriarch. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, undersecretary Crippa, the measures contained in the decree-law have as their object - as the previous speakers have said - the refinancing of social shock absorbers for Sardinia and the unblocking of the extension of the integration fund by way of derogation, measures aimed at protecting workers who, otherwise, would lose the treatments necessary to guarantee an income for themselves and their families. A decree-law signed by the Government Gentiloni Silveri. Having said that, Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to take stock, because otherwise you really dream and do not go down with your feet on the ground, about the work done in managing the crisis tables by the Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri governments. I would also like to point out - as my colleagues in the majority will allow me - the commitment made by former Minister Calenda and former Deputy Minister Bellanova. Two were the key words, which have guided our industrial policy, since then we have to talk about this: investment and social protection. I am referring to investments in public resources by individuals, in order to enable those companies, through a serious conversion, to project themselves towards a solid future, and to the protection - where possible - of every single job and of every worker. In recent years we have faced many crisis situations. The crisis began in 2008 and I remind my colleagues of the League that in those years it did not govern the Democratic Party. The current crisis tables are 74: surely Minister Di Maio, who is not there today, knows it better than I do. In the period 2017-2018 162 disputes were monitored and managed and 82 of them were successfully concluded, 36 of which are completely resolved and have come out of the management of the Ministry of Economic Development and 46, - albeit with a positive conclusion, under observation at the Ministry, in order to verify that the investments established in the industrial plans are activated and maintained the employment levels provided for in the agreements. This means talking about industrial policy: entering the merit and staying in the concreteness of the country's life, rather than reporting unlikely scenarios. The action of PD-led governments has been clear, with the strengthening of industrial policy instruments, the calibrated use of social shock absorbers and the reform of the system of active policies, with the establishment of the National Agency for Active Labour Policies: not a book of dreams, not statements as high as useless, but the concrete start of industrial conversion and redevelopment. These are difficult paths, which by their nature need not short programming periods, accompanied by a forward-looking policy, which knows how to look forward and which in recent years has never forgotten to protect the employment fabric in the territories concerned. Over the last three years, always to be on the subject of the rather strange story and narration that I heard from my previous colleagues, the Ministry of Economic Development has recognized 12 areas of complex crisis. In these territories industrial conversion and redevelopment projects have been adopted or are being adopted, promoting productive investment, redevelopment of the areas concerned, training of human capital, reconversion of abandoned industrial areas, environmental recovery, energy efficiency of the sites and the construction of infrastructure. In short, always not to dream, it was a slow and lasting job, of which we are also very proud. In the last two years alone industrial conversion and redevelopment projects have been approved and programme agreements have been signed in seven areas of industrial crisis, which have brought - again to speak of figures - to 242 million euros the total allocation of resources allocated to complex industrial crisis areas. Finally, there is talk of relocation. Minister Di Maio has been talking about this lately, and I would like to remind the Minister once again, that there is no Minister today, that the PD-led Government has not been watching on this front too: perhaps the Minister has not yet entered into the merits of the Ministry's government. The Government of the PD has prepared an instrument aimed at intervening in the cases in which this danger is profiled: I am referring to the Anti-Delocalization Fund, established with CIPE resolution at the beginning of the year, which, with a dowry of 200 million euros, can be used to counter this phenomenon. We are therefore not zero year and nothing new has been discovered. To conclude, Mr President, I hope that soon the Government - which I hope is now in the fullness of its functions - will give us its guidelines and list the cornerstones of its industrial policy. For our part we have worked with great responsibility, with a vision of industrial policy and development of our country on time, realistic, not dreaming and oriented towards the future. The results - and I regret to say this to my colleagues in the majority - are before everyone's eyes. We are now waiting for your results, ready to finally discuss - hopefully time will come - your decrees-laws, not those of the Government Gentiloni Silveri, which I believe will happen in the coming weeks. We are, therefore, ready to discuss also the decree-law dignity. It will be a firm, determined opposition, but at the same time ready to confront if there are serious proposals that go in the direction on which, in recent years, we have worked with seriousness and commitment. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u52	Senator Solinas is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u53	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, colleagues and fellow senators, the conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 44 of 2018, as has been widely illustrated in the general discussion, will ensure the social shock absorbers by way of derogation for a further six months to about 1,000 workers in the complex industrial crisis areas of Sardinia. From a strictly technical point of view, the measure allows the Region to allocate additional resources up to 9 million from the Social Fund for Employment and Training. From a general political point of view, however, we cannot accept how these measures question the public decision-maker's conscience more deeply. The crisis of the industrial model has not been properly governed as a whole; it has created a harmful circuit of care paths that have progressively replaced the productive capacity of the Country often resulting in the loss of significant know-how and market shares. Today, especially on my island, industrial desertification has shown, in all their seriousness, the strategic errors of programming of the development model and the shame of a precarious work for thousands of fathers of families who have had to live with an existence by way of derogation, as has been appropriately defined by others. Therefore, today's theme is how to restore the dignity of their income to the workers in the framework of a national industrial policy that favours truly productive investments, putting an end, once and for all, to the many so-called Saviors of the Homeland that we have well known for their rapacity in the uptake of favorable conditions, contributions and financing to which no consequent maintenance of the commitments entered into is ever paid. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] However, they remain out of this norm - and it is a ground on which the Government and this majority will commit themselves from the start - the many areas whose crisis is certainly not of minor impact, but lacks the only recognition of complexity, starting from Ottana. You see, Senator Parente, you attacked the words of my colleague Bossi and my colleague Bogo Deledda, but it is not wrong to know the past of the island because it is paradigmatic for everything else. You are now prisoners of an aesthetic of the narration of the provisions that do not correspond to the reality of things and to the life that citizens live every day. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] To claim that this is the first time that active and passive labour policies have been combined does not correspond to the truth, because calling for the maintenance of an employment threshold in the face of an investment plan - it has been mentioned since the latter - which provides, however, once again, for 8 million lost funds, 84 million soft-rate loans, 20 million euros already provided for by BNFL, does not mean introducing anything new. In Sardinia - let me remind you - we really suffered industrial colonialism, and we suffered it, unfortunately, first of all at the initiative of the State. All the names that we are going to repeat today, the latter were once names that the State knows well because they were called Alumix, Ammi Sarda, Alsar: all state companies, which have been transferred to conditions often far too favorable, which to us have left only the desperation of the Cassa Integrazione [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups),]] they have left behind an economic and productive fabric distorted. Let me remind you of the work of the Parliamentary Commission which, from 1951 to 1958, drew up the first plan for the rebirth of Sardinia. Well, that plan of rebirth, which was the basis of the constitutional pact of the Statute of Speciality of our island, provided for a revival and overcoming the conditions of structural disadvantage that the island suffers because of its insularity. That plan, which had to develop more and better the vocations of our island, the primary sector, the agro-food sector, the tourist potential, the union between all these sectors, was transformed, with Law No. 588 of 11 January 1962, from a plan for the primary sector to a plan for the petrochemical industry. From 400 billion to 2,000 billion which, instead of going to the production companies then to improve their structure, have gone to form the large industrial poles: Porto Torres, Sarroch, Ottana, Portovesme. From there was born then, in conjunction with the nationalization of electricity and hydrocarbons, with the birth of ENEL and ENI, the attempt to revive the coal sector of Sulcis, with the creation of the thermal coal power plant of Portovesme, around which the aluminium cycle developed. To deny that knowing history helps us not to repeat the same mistakes is itself a mistake that we must avoid. Sardinia does not only need social policies, but needs a much broader strategic vision of development, and for us this is mainly called a free zone, it is mainly called the possibility of removing those structural handicaps that we have through a fiscal policy of advantage, which is not an extemporaneous invention of this moment but is an instrument and measure already applied in many other parts of Europe and the world. I would like to take the example of the Canary Islands, which have a special regime, the Especial Canarian Zone (ZEC), which allows the removal of both value added tax and the system of corporate taxation, which is inversely proportional to the volume of employment they can offer, many of the structural handicaps and give serious prospects for development and growth. This decree-law, therefore, will be converted into law and will allow to return and maintain the dignity of an income to so many workers and to so many families, but for how the perspective is being structured, also and above all of the latter, we risk that it is yet another piece that does not solve the problems at all. Already today the unions complained about the failure to maintain the agreements which provided for the re-hire of the staff who fought to keep the aluminium melter in operation and which risk instead of being re-absorbed immediately. I therefore believe that the government above all and this majority must take a governmental and parliamentary initiative to return to this country a broad industrial policy. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Mangialavori. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, as I have already said, we are here to convert a meritorious decree-law into law, approved unanimously by the House and which responds to the need to solve one of the many problems that exist in Italy and not to the propaganda and unrealizable announcements typical of the beginning of this new Government. The decree-law, in fact, provides for the refinancing, also for the year 2018, of the social shock absorbers in derogation in the areas of complex industrial crisis. In the Chamber, for the Forza Italia Group, it was my colleague Cappellacci who stressed the need for a plan that goes through a more effective use of European resources, with the true, healthy, high aim of zeroing that infrastructural gap and of determining an effective growth of the country's economy. And this approach, in our view, remains valid and effective. In fact, this is the only way for us that can lead out of the swamps of the crisis that have created stagnation, loss of productivity and rampant poverty. The territorial areas subject to economic recessions are increasing. Of course, the South of the country is of course the most dramatically affected part. An economy already fragile in itself has been further affected by the degrowth processes of recent years. From the revival of productive activities and from a set of other factors will depend the fate of many Italian families. In the immediate future, however, there is a need to alleviate the delays and difficulties in which so many, too many families suffer from job losses or because a rag of work is no longer found. This is the scenario in which we live, but Minister Di Maio pretends to ignore him, as if he came from another planet (Jupiter or Mars) and did not know him too, a man of the South, the hunger for work that obsessess - I repeat, obsess - the South of Italy and, unfortunately, begins to obsess also other areas of our nation. Maio and his movement pretend to ignore these precise demands and, at the same time, distort them, instilling in the public opinion the idea that the South and the other depressed areas of our country want and demand welfare policies and measures that allow the willing men to stay comfortably at home, receive a subsidy to do nothing and milk the breasts of a state that now - ahinoi - has no milk. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The Movimento 5 Stars and the vice-premier Di Maio relaunch, one day with greater insistence and one day with some hesitation, the proposal to approve by 2018 the now notorious income of citizenship, a measure in my opinion silly, senseless and - pass me the term - crazy. Moreover, the analyses carried out a few years ago by Nobel Prize winner Friedman, who said: If you rate work and benefit to those who don't, don't be surprised if you create unemployment. And that is exactly what would happen if (let us hope that never happens) the income of citizenship, so encouraged by the reckless minister Di Maio, had to be approved: unemployment would be encouraged and not work. And it is the work, this millennial human activity, that perhaps the minister Di Maio has little practiced in his life as a young and lucky politician, to give dignity to man, not tips, nor even the alms of State. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] It is the work, this word unknown to a Movimento 5 Stars increasingly populist and pauperist, as President Berlusconi rightly called it, to create wealth, to grow the country and give it more resources and funds for investment and for improving the lives of citizens. It is the work, dear Minister Di Maio, that makes us men and not policemen. It is the work, unaware minister Di Maio, the means that all men and women of good will use to test their skills and professionalism and to measure themselves in a global society where no state can afford to finance the inactivity of its fellow citizens anymore. The income of citizenship, therefore, would be nothing more than a disaster, but also, to look at it, a mad utopia. In fact, dear Minister Di Maio, you have not yet told us how it would be financed. In a word, he still hasn't told us where you're going to take the money to make such legislation operational. You didn't tell us for one reason: you have no idea where to get the money. You don't know and you haven't explained. Yet, for years now you have proposed to the citizens the existence of a state that dispenses subsidies as if they were rude and it was the most natural thing in the world. It's not like that. The Movimento 5 Stars knows this and the Minister Di Maio knows it even better. That's why I ask that, once and for all, the Vice Premier of this government finally tell the truth to the citizens and admit that the income of citizenship is a boiata born by four friends at the bar in the mood to joke and take someone by the nose. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] Dear Minister Di Maio, for once say what is happening and admit this undeniable truth. If he really does not want to lose face - and we understand this - he is bound to nod with the head to what the Minister of Economic Affairs said, Tria, who admitted in no uncertain terms that in economic matters this Executive has only one path to follow: that of continuity with the past. Other than citizenship income; other than subsidies for this or that fallen from the sky! You, Minister, after the approval of the so-called Dignity Decree, said that we are in the presence of the Waterloo of the precarious. Unfortunately, however, you did not explain how this defeat should take place; while, at the same time, it seems to focus in part a huge and general problem, for example focusing only on riders; that they must, yes, be protected, but they must be like all the precarious ones of public administration, industry, commerce, university, etc. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Italy, Minister, needs structural responses, capable of reversing a negative economic trend that does not hint to weaken. But his first steps as Minister don't give much hope. In conclusion, the events of the decree-law in question are known: with this provision it is expected the possibility of a further subsidy to social shock absorbers. It is likely to be voted unanimously, but a question arises spontaneously: when can a measure by the present Government be adopted unanimously by this Parliament? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] At this stage, with all our good will and responsibility, I believe that it is absolutely impossible. And the fact that it's still worth thinking about... [[The microphone turns off automatically.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u55	I think she doesn't have time to think publicly; she does it on her own. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Casolati]] I note that, in about half an hour, we could move on to the vote. Let us look at the progress of the work, but I wanted to make it clear to the group leaders for information. She is registered to speak Senator Evangelista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u56	Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and fellow senators, we are today called to express our vote on the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 44 of 9 May 2018 in which, in particular, Article 1 provides an appropriation of 9 million euros for 2018 in favour of the Region of Sardinia, in order to allow the refinancing of social shock absorbers by derogation in the industrial areas of Portovesme and Porto Torres, recognized with two separate decrees of 2016 as complex industrial crisis areas, that is, areas compared to which it has been found that the effects of the deep crisis could not have been resolved with resources and instruments of regional competence. (17.59) (Following Evangelist). This recognition has led to the creation of synergies at the various institutional levels aimed at promoting and supporting industrial conversion and redevelopment processes. The vote in favour of this measure then appears necessary in order to secure the dignity of about a thousand workers and their families, thus guaranteeing what Roosevelt effectively defined as freedom from need in 1941. Families that have suffered so much in recent years; just think of the workers of the former establishment "Salvia (today sold to a Swiss group) and their striking, as well as extreme battles, begun in November 2009 with the occupation of the factory, during which we remember in particular the episode of the worker who remained for hours ensnared on a trellis at 60 meters of height, convinced to descend from the Forces of the order only late at night. The workers of the Alcoa, in 2012, presided over the site and the same palace of the Sarda Region, until they came to manifest in front of the Ministry of Economic Development, beating on the ground the working helmets to make themselves felt. The national newspapers of the time were titled: "And so the warm autumn of Sardinia has landed in Rome." The EUR 9 million provided for in Decree-Law No 44 of 2018, which we are called upon to approve today, is not to be considered State aid, as the Commission stated only last week for relations with the European Union, chaired by Senator Ettore Licheri, whom I warmly thank for the work it has done. These 9 million euros will allow to face the structural crisis with the necessary thoughtfulness, putting in field all the systems of intervention and control regarding the correct realization of the plans of conversion and redevelopment is for the territory of Portovesme, that for the industrial pole of Porto Torres; territories sadly included by the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research among the forty sites of national interest because contaminated areas needing reclamation. Trace these lines of action, I would like to remind this House and especially the oppositions, to underline their validity, the proposal of Minister Di Maio, who, in a commendable way and thus implementing one of the fundamental principles of the 5-star Movement, that is, the principle of maximum transparency, proposed an extended participation at the crisis tables at the Ministry, as listeners, both to the majority parliamentarians and to the parliamentarians of opposition who come from those territories whose crisis is being discussed. And it is not a mechanism that would politicize the negotiation (as unjustly stated by some opposition representatives), but a real political negotiation in the highest meaning of the term, to be understood as the art of governing (and in the best possible way). In full adherence to this proposal and in the policies of contrasting relocations (think of the recent decree dignity), my wish and primary commitment as a Sardinian parliamentarians is to promote and support interventions aimed also at the solution of industrial crises not complex, but that nevertheless have a significant impact on the development and occupation of the territories concerned, among which it is necessary to remember, unfortunately, also other areas, such as the industrial center of Ottana, in central Sardinia. It also constitutes a further sad reality of the failure of the old industrial policy, which is incapable of guaranteeing the production and employment levels of the plants originally created by the ENI. We need a careful analysis and the search for a solution to the devastating effects of the crisis that hit the industrial pole of Ottana, which awaits urgent but at the same time adequate answers, respectful of the peculiarities of the territory and not improvised like that, Senator Floris and Senator Carbone, that would like your party, Forza Italia, that is, to pass through the short ways of an amendment to Decree-Law No 44 of 2018, of which today is discussed, without there being the necessary legal prerequisites. For several years your political strength has ruled Sardinia without providing any response to the dramatic employment and economic situation of Ottana. Because Sardinia is not saved with golf courses! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The 5 Star Movement, far from flagging speeches in the electoral campaign, as you said, has presented, even at the signature of those who speak and of the Senator Sardinian Bogo Deledda, a precise agenda that allows to address the topic related to the industrial pole of Ottana, and that pledges the Government to assess the opportunity to put in place all the appropriate acts for the recognition of this pole as a complex industrial crisis area, in order to provide any additional resources aimed at ensuring income support tools to protect workers and workers in the industrial zone of Ottana. I conclude with the hope that a new and correct industrial policy can restore the economic fortunes of my region and our country, in which the dignity of citizens passes, not through welfare forms, but through the guarantee of the right to work as a means for the affirmation of the personality of the individual and, at the same time, an instrument of material and spiritual progress of society, as defined in Article 4 of the Constitution. The dignity of the work, in fact, Senator of PD Laus, does not go through words, but through the facts: perhaps she has forgotten when, as an entrepreneur of a multiservice cooperative today registered to her relatives, she underpaid employees and workers at four euros per hour, exploiting them or dismissing them without just cause, except then to be reinstated by the court of appeal. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] These facts led the director Ken Loach not to go to Turin to collect the prize at the Torino Film Festival, as reported by the daily newspaper "Il Fatto Quotidiano." I shall end here, Mr President, and thank the whole House. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u57	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u58	Mr President, I would like to thank the officials, the Commission, the Members who have spoken in the Commission and, of course, also in this House, as well as the Government. The work done makes us understand that there is a will to do and when there is such will it is good for the whole country. In the present case, the draft law under consideration is to convert a decree-law containing urgent measures for the further financing of the interventions referred to in Law No 205 of 2017, as well as for the completion of the plans for new industrialization, recovery or employment retention related to company crises. Dignity has not yet been mentioned in this provision, and I therefore believe that the speeches made in this regard have also been somewhat instrumental, partly because if we look at the subject of the draft law we cannot talk about matters which are not yet before the House. I understand that colleagues are obviously in a hurry and interested in talking about the future, but let us begin to examine Decree-Law No. 44 of 2018, on which I have actually noticed that each of us is completely in agreement with what is being done. When you are completely in agreement with what you are doing, rather than stressing the differences, the colors, it would be appropriate to highlight the union of intents. This is what the measure under consideration tells us; as colleagues have pointed out, it is a decree-law signed by the previous Government, but despite this, the current Executive has accelerated its process, ensuring that it is brought to the examination of the Assembly until its conversion into law. With regard to this, it must be said that in the Commission, but also in this House, many Members have shown their good will through their speeches and their amending proposals, which were then taken as commitments by the Government. So I wonder why we should take this opportunity to highlight the differences? There was no need for this, because in this case what we are about to do is to give a thousand workers who are in need of it at the moment, and this House now expresses its will to do justice to such cases. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] We are going to refinance social shock absorbers by way of derogation in these complex crisis areas. Let us remember: when there is an economic recession, job loss is not just a simple job loss; it is an employment crisis that affects the whole nation. In the present case, this is an employment crisis related to a complex area, which therefore has a significant impact on national industrial policy. Of course, we also have to realise that these are crises that impact large or medium-sized enterprises, which are certainly crucial for some territories. But, as I said before, when we realize that it is a crisis that, although they invest territories and not the whole nation, involves significant strategic sectors - which are declared, in fact, particular areas of complex industrial crisis - we must intervene (and we have all done so). I therefore hope that each of us can see the light of day. In fact, as I said before, this decree-law expires on Sunday. There are a number of proposals that colleagues have tabled and stressed and which are also concrete in amendments, but unfortunately some of them cannot be accepted, even though they contain sacred principles. They cannot be accepted because we know very well what is going on: when an amendment passes into a House, then it has to be voted again by the other House. This could entail a risk on which we have all expressed ourselves in this House, each one of us, albeit with different reasons: we do not want this risk to happen in this House at all. I believe that, in this case, for example, the amendment that provided for...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u59	Senator Puglia, we will see the opinions on the amendments later. Finish reply
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u60	[[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] PUGLIA, rapporteur. Yes, Mr. President. I hope once again that this House will be able to vote in favour - and I hope unanimously, as happened in the Commission - of this measure quickly. In this case, in fact, it is true that we read a codified formula, but it has a soul within itself and the soul are the 1,000 workers who are currently asking this House, all of them, for a concrete sign. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups. Ironic applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u61	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u62	Mr President, I give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u63	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u66	LUPE (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u67	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency declares that amendment 2.0.100, which differs from 2019 the obligation for employers to pay remuneration through a bank or post office, as it is unrelated to the content of the decree-law, which instead contains urgent provisions for the financing of funds for social shock absorbers. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendment and the agenda referred to in Article 1 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u68	Mr President, the amendment and agendas referred to in Article 1 are easy to explain and I would like to understand the extent to which the rapporteur's willingness to give a favourable opinion on them is there. In any case, Amendment 1.1 refers to the interest of us Sardinians, not only for the two areas covered by the intervention in the North-West and South-West of Sardinia, but also for other areas of crisis, such as Ottana, in central Sardinia. We are well aware - it has been pointed out by the rapporteur and also by my fellow Members who have spoken before me - that there is no time for additional resources; there is probably no money available either. However, I am pleased to present this amendment in order to remind the House that in every territory of Italy there are areas or areas in crisis of national strategic interest. In the same way, there are also many areas of crisis, especially in the South, which are not of national interest - for their context - but which are characterized by a great territorial interest, which, especially in some areas of my island - but I think that in general the speech concerns the whole South - is truly an economic disaster.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u71	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on the whole of the amendment and the agenda referred to in Rule 1. Today we come to the approval of this measure, which is the conclusion of a fairly long path, well known to us Sardinians. It is also a very troubled measure, because in Sardinia we have an absolutely painful industrial situation. This is an extremely important measure, although it is only a breath of oxygen for many workers and for families living in precariousness and uncertainty of the future for too long now. However, this cannot be enough; only the first step can be considered. I very much appreciate the amendments that have been tabled, which reveal the need to move forward with equally dramatic situations compared to what we are discussing today. I am referring in particular to the area of Ottana. Who does not know the story of Ottana well does not know the drama of that situation. Ottana, at the end of the sixties and in the early seventies, represented the hope for all central Sardinia to develop the chemical pole in this region. Unfortunately, the oil crisis, which has also invested that sector, has led to the progressive decay and progressive disappearance of that dream since the mid-seventies, which should have brought 100,000 inhabitants to that area in its initial programmes. Ottana remained a country of just over 2,000 inhabitants, 28 kilometers from Nuoro, which has only 37,000. Today of that dream there are only two chimneys, two cathedrals in the desert. However, I remember that the Ottana pole - just to make it clear what happened - is the place where there was the highest rate of occupational decline: the chemical and rubber sector reached 33.7%, while the other sectors reached 54 percent. There is no other area in Italy which has had such a high rate of decline in employment. In this sense I support the amendments that have been proposed at first signed by colleagues from Forza Italia, because it is necessary to immediately put hand to this problem, with the recognition of the complex crisis area also of the Ottana area, in order to restore hope to the thousands of workers who have moved on in those territories and who today really live in precariousness, not to say that they live in miserable conditions. I believe that those people only ask for her dignity to be restored, and I firmly believe that the task of politics is to restore dignity to the people who simply ask to work. In this respect, I therefore hope that the amendment to Article 1 and Article 2, which is a possible interim measure pending recognition, will be adopted. I hope that this Government will also put its finger on the problem, promoting the recognition of a complex crisis area in the Ottana area, in such a way that - as I said - dignity and hope will be restored to the workers and their families. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u72	The remaining agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendment and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u73	Mr President, I hope I have made myself quite clear before. Amendment 1.1 contains more than just things; so we believe that it contains more than just things that the Government has accepted in the Commission of the agendas of my colleague Bogo Deledda Floris precisely in relation to the industrial pole of Ottana, because it is believed to represent one of the most economically fragile areas of the Sardinia Region, and the employment fabric is suffering from the deep crisis that has hit the entire territory. We know that very well. Let us remember one thing: if even one amendment were to pass - you know it better than I do - the measure would go back to the House. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u74	The rapporteur, Mr Puglia, is motivating the opinions on the amendment and the agenda, and I believe he has time to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u75	PUGLIA, rapporteur. I therefore call on the authors to withdraw amendment 1.1, otherwise the opinion is against it. I shall then vote against the G1.1 agenda. With regard to the agenda G1.2, I express an opinion contrary to paragraphs five, six and eight of the preamble, and, as regards the device, I call on the presenters to reword the first paragraph as follows: It commits the Government: to put in place, subject to the positive outcome of the ongoing investigation, the appropriate acts for the recognition of the area in question, then continuing in the same way as it was formulated. The rewording of the second paragraph of the device is as follows: We call for the words: 'compatible with budgetary requirements and taking into account the limits and conditions laid down in the European framework on State aid to undertakings'. In the same way, we also call for the third paragraph of the scheme to be preceded by the words: 'compatible with budgetary requirements and taking into account the limits and conditions laid down by the European framework on State aid to undertakings'. The G1.3 agenda may be well... President. Senator Puglia, tell us whether or not you have an opinion in favour of or against the agenda G1.3. PUGLIA, rapporteur. Mr President, I am in favour of the G1.3 agenda, although I think that we should at least make it clear why. However, the opinion is in favour of the G1.3 agenda because, in fact, a commitment has been made, as indicated to the House. The commitment is the same as the one accepted in the House and, therefore, the agenda G1.3 is fine. With regard to the agenda, Mr G1,100, the opinion was opposed to the premises and was in favour of the proposal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Floris, on the G1.2 agenda, do you agree with the rewording proposed by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u76	Mr President, I would like to remind my colleague Mr Puglia that his party has taken an important amount of votes in Sardinia and has spent during the election campaign on commitments and promises and one of these concerned both the areas of crisis in Porto Torres and Portovesme - included in the law presented by the Government Gentiloni Silveri, which you simply made your own and brought to this House - and others. I realize that resources are probably not there. I believe that the invitation to take an interest in the areas of crisis and not only in Sardinia is on the agenda G1.100 and also on the agenda G1.3. I therefore believe that these agendas can be voted on because they have also been voted on in the House and I would like the Senate to confirm the House's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u77	Senator Floris, so you don't accept the rewording of the G1.2 agenda and you insist on the vote? Will you not withdraw the premises for the agenda, and will you insist on the vote?
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u78	I accept the rewording because the little is better than nothing and what I have said is more for the future than for the current vote. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u79	I call on the Government representative to comment on the amendment and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u80	Mr President, the Government's opinion on the amendment and agenda is in line with that of the rapporteur. In particular, with regard to amendment 1.1, an invitation to withdraw was issued, otherwise the opinion would be against it. I regret to point out to my fellow Members who have spoken on the whole of the amendments and on the presentation of the agenda that it seems to me that it is difficult to imagine amending this legislative text and, at the same time, to see its application, given the deadline. There is a time issue that seems not to correspond to the speeches made earlier. I therefore strongly urge my colleagues in the majority who spoke earlier to support some of the proposals we have voted against, to bear in mind that it is in fact a well-known and problematic situation. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Too bad that, from the point of view of content, the complex industrial crisis area of Ottana is currently in a phase of recognition, therefore, does not exist yet. [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u81	Can you let the government speak? CRIPPA, State Secretary for Economic Development. I understand your difficulty in listening, but I try. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't see the difficulty. It is giving its opinions in accordance with the rapporteur's opinions or not. CRIPPA, State Secretary for Economic Development. I'm presenting an opinion. Since you have, in some way, motivated your favourable opinion on the amendment, it seems to me correct that the Government should express a clear position with regard to your somewhat overwhelming position on this issue. Therefore, with regard to the amendment to Article 1, I would ask you to withdraw this proposal or the opinion will be against it. Opinions on the agenda shall be in accordance with those of the majority rapporteur. Again, many agendas are identical to others already presented to the House; the proposed rewordings are totally in line with those that have been proposed and accepted in the House. Therefore, let us put these conditions back to the House as expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u82	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Floris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.1, presented by Senator Floris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u85	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, I would point out to you that my electronic voting system is not working. So I was absent in the previous vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u86	You can pass your vote on to the offices, Senator Fazzolari. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.2 (text 2), presented by Senator Floris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.3 tabled by Senator Floris and other senators. (The vote was followed).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u89	CANTU (L-SP). Mr President, my electronic voting system is not working well.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u90	An assistant is coming to his station to verify, Senator Cantù. We shall, however, vote in favour of this report. We shall see to it that the matter is resolved for the next voting time. I declare the vote closed. The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1,100 (text 2), presented by Senator Floris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u91	Mr President, Amendment 2.1 is similar to the previous amendment, as it would bring from 9 million to 14 million the resources to be made available to the Ottana area. However, in view of the results of the previous votes, in which the requests from the agenda were also accepted, I shall withdraw the amendment. [[Applause from Senator Puglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u92	As amendment 2.0.100 is not available, we shall proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u95	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Madam President... [[Brusio.]] If that were possible, I would ask for a moment's attention, at least from the President. We will vote in favour of this measure, because any initiative that goes in the direction of worker support will see us in favour. Of course, however, we cannot ignore a general debate, which we need to do in this and in the next steps. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u96	Colleagues, please, there is a buzz in this House that does not allow the senator to make his explanation of vote. Please, Senator Laforgia.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u97	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). A first debate was on the issue of shock absorbers by way of derogation, which show that they are insufficient from the name: if they are by way of derogation they should retain an exceptional feature. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u98	I have the impression that the House has not taken the call to lower the tone of the voice to allow the senator to continue his explanation of vote. Thank you! Please, Senator Laforgia.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u99	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Thank you. There is in fact a mechanism of exceptionality, which has become a mechanism of normality, on which we should start a discussion and I think that we must make this discussion based on a reasoning on the reordering of social shock absorbers in their complexity. There is a consideration, which concerns the areas of complex industrial crisis and therefore the definition of these areas, because we need to know that interventions like this are addressed to workers and, of course, the measure under consideration is sacrosanct for this reason first, but they should be used to intervene on industrial areas. So here is the theme of what those industrial areas must be, of what is the reasoning regarding their conversion and their reindustrialization. I think we should have this discussion. Of course, this paves the way for a fundamental reflection on the country's industrial policies and on that great plan of public investment... [[Brusio]] I am moving on, Madam President, but it is really very difficult to do this under these conditions.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u100	Senator Laforgia, I have already called this House twice. Also understand my difficulty in simply asking for some education towards him.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u101	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). We will try to self-discipline over the years, during the parliamentary term. As I said, this paves the way for a general reflection on industrial policies, because I think we need to think about the great plans of public investment, of which we have seen a very labile trace in recent years and, therefore, also a discussion on the model of productive specialisation of the country. I am thinking of a debate - I say this with a very small joke - which concerns what Italy should become in the next thirty years and perhaps we should raise the bar of our reflection exactly to this height. If we do not do this, measures such as the one we are going to vote on will have more of a welfare feature than an accompanying industrial model towards a more advanced scheme. I take advantage of the few minutes left to make a judgment on something which is apparently unrelated to the measure in question, but which is very much concerned with the debate of these hours. I use the term "apparently" because the discussion that we will have in the next few days, in the conversion of the so-called decree-law dignity, concerns exactly those contents and in the discussion of these hours there is a heated political debate on the contours of that decree-law. I think - as some colleagues said in the general debate - that the word 'dignity' is very important, very valuable. You can also give a decree-law such an ambitious title, using, precisely, the word dignity, but if you do not address the underlying nodes that concern the aspects that have affected, in this country, the sphere of the dignity of the workers, then it means that in reality that that dignity is not really being dealt with. I want to speak with the Government and with the majority, through you, President, on this very ground. For God's sake, it is okay to have put a hand on the issue of fixed-term contracts, which I had asked, together with other colleagues, during the last parliamentary term, when I was a Member of the Republic. It's okay to put that tight; I think it was a necessary step. The decision on relocations is also good: I am the first signatory of a proposal with a very similar content, with a grip very similar to that which was imagined by the decree-law. Even the theme of gambling advertising is good. But I want to ask the Government some questions, I want to speak with this majority: are you available or not, in the passages that will come, to do that great operation, which we have been asking for a long time, of the real deforestation of the jungle of precarious contracts, which today makes the condition, especially of a piece of the new generations, unsustainable, fragmented, of a precariousness that is transforming even into exploitation? Are you willing or not to do what, for example, some 5 Star Members and Senators, even in the last parliamentary term, had stated that they wanted to do, or re-introduce Article 18 on disciplinary and collective redundancies? Because today many workers in this country have renounced to defend themselves even in the face of unfair dismissal because, for having dismantled the last brand of workers' statute, it has become more difficult to do so, defend and protect their own interests. Article 18 on that part is not a simulacrum of the past, it was the bar that should not have been exceeded, the instrument of deterrent against abuses and discriminatory mechanisms. Do you or do you not want to think about a youth pension? We are probably going to have this debate when we examine the draft budget law, but today, if you want to deal with dignity, you must first of all take care of this, that is, those who are young precarious workers today and who, scientifically, will be poor pensioners tomorrow. A country of poor pensioners is inevitably a country destined to perish, as well as to crush on the level of economic sustainability. Do you or do you not want to reassure - and we are particularly keen on this - that vouchers are not being reintroduced, apart from a reasoning that can be dealt with on vouchers in domestic use, because that instrument in private enterprises - and I would like to say also in the public - did not take the objective it aimed at, namely to bring out black work, becoming also a means of exploitation? I would like to raise one issue that I have already touched on in other speeches in this House, one which we particularly care about and on which we should think in a cross-cutting way if we consider ourselves to be a civilised country: the issue of reducing working time on equal pay. Today, ladies and gentlemen, a modern society is the one that frees working time, not the one that imagines that there are few workers who do unworthy work, as is happening exactly at this historical stage. If I can steal an extra minute, even trying to recover the time that has been taken from me, I say this in a nutshell: do we want or not - even taking advantage of today's passage - to start a discussion that says that the season in which we think is definitely closed (and we thought in the past), right and left, that an economic system, ours, in this case, recovers by tampering with the rules of the labour market? Do we want to get through this season and say that an economic system - I would like to say social - can only be solved by serious and effective industrial policies, by public investment policies in strategic sectors? Are you gonna shut us down this season? Because this is the basic issue, which concerns the issue of shock absorbers, that is, the subject of today's debate, and concerns all the issues and discussions that will inform the public debate on work in the coming months and years. I am closing with a more exquisitely political postcard, and I say it to the members of the majority through it, Mr President: you must stop imagining a scheme in which the majority plays the part of the right, especially in the field of civil rights and in the management of some very complicated issues, starting with immigration, and make the left on other land, perhaps economic and social policy. This game can't work long. We will speak about the proposals of merit when they arrive, as perhaps in the case of the decree of dignity, that they go in the direction that we wish, but we certainly will not do discounts to the Government, because the topic of work is a central theme of the agenda of this country and it concerns, for more reason, the dignity of workers and workers. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u104	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, our Group will vote in favour. The statement of reasons is identical to that for the Alitalia decree. Workers must be protected in the transition between two legislations, but above all it is a matter of giving additional time to look for a positive way out of the two crises. The industrial issue is one of the fundamental issues of the coming years, it is at the center of the great world debates, from China to the United States and it is important that it is discussed also in Italy, where it is not only about managing emergencies, but also about thinking about the model of Country. Industrial development policies require investment in research and training, attracting foreign investment, appropriate tools and timing for those who choose the path of innovation. Unfortunately, we live in a time when politics is all over the present and the constant search for consensus. One of the most negative consequences is that policies that take time, which look to the future, are being put in the background. Yet Italy needs this, starting from the conversion of the productive realities that are in a state of serious crisis. Who has been at MISE in recent years I think has a lot to tell. We who have arrived only now in the Senate see the numbers and realize how big and delicate the work of that Ministry is. That is why we renew our wishes for good work to Minister Di Maio, because it is from his Ministry that the fears of those risking work pass. It is industrial development policies that give meaning to labour measures. For example, citizenship income may be a useful tool to overcome a period of temporary unemployment or may be reduced to welfare measures. As well as the rules on recruitment, dismissals, measures to reduce labour costs, take value. In short, this is a speech that deserves to be addressed in an overall logic, out of the announcements, on the substance of the issues. And it is with this invitation that I reiterate the Group's support for the measure. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u107	BERTACCO (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Brothers of Italy will vote in favour of this measure for one reason only: it is a decree-law involving thousands of workers who have been waiting for a reply for years, and this is for them to give further time hoping to find a solution. Once again, an income assistance measure concerning Sardinia. Since 2007 the crisis has gripped our economy and therefore actions of this kind, in the immediacy, were right, but unfortunately they have transformed over time into customary, reducing themselves to pure welfareism. As many others are waiting for answers from the policy, the workers of Sernam never have the scope to become cases from social services. They have come here several times, to Rome, to demonstrate for their place of work. They have come to Rome to ask for work and not begging, and some of them are still under trial for the intemperance that - be careful - we do not justify, but it turns out at least curious that they are under trial for having asked for a job, while the good boys of the social centers devastate our cities constantly unpunished. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] I wonder if someday someone will explain to us why. All Italians have the strong will to be masters of their own destiny, determined to grow and walk with their own legs and firmly convinced that their dignity passes through a job. We therefore ask the government to have some discontinuity with the previous ones from now on. No more welfare: structural reforms and environmental requalifications are needed in industrial crisis areas. We shall vote in favour of the measure because, as I said at the beginning of my speech, there are workers, fathers of families, people who are suffering. Our duty is not achieved by continuing to extend a decree-law, but instead we should work for the revival of these areas, with courageous choices that help our companies innovate, assisting them in business conversion projects. Italians flee from self-pity and ask to be protagonists of the choices to help our country to return to growth. Today we continue for the umpteenth time a decree-law, but we really hope to be able to listen soon by Minister Di Maio what are the Government's proposals regarding industrial policy. Honestly, I didn't get it from the government contract. I am even more curious to understand what the next steps will be to ensure the many Italian crisis situations (I think of Termini Imerese, Taranto, Gela, Terni, Savona, Piombino, Frosinone and Val Vibrata) and give hope to thousands of men and women who hope to think of the future with greater serenity. In 2017, there were 162 disputes involving 180,000 workers: a very high and impressive number of people who cannot find answers exclusively in a derogation. Therefore, for what I have said so far, Brothers of Italy will vote in favour of this measure, with the hope that, from now on, we can truly think of the interests of workers and our companies. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u110	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of this measure. Today we are debating a measure that concerns social shock absorbers by way of derogation and their refinancing. We are discussing a measure aimed at the preservation of a piece of the country's industry, that of aluminium. We discuss the protection and preservation of the workplace in one of the poorest areas of the country, that of Sulcis in Sardinia. Let's discuss people's lives, people who have a first name and a last name. But there is more. We are discussing a measure, the result of the action of the Government Gentiloni Silveri, which is part of a framework of industrial and social policies of our country, a government action aimed at strengthening the instruments of industrial policy. This is an approach in which, in its complexity, there are active and passive labour policies, as one colleague said during the general discussion. Expressions such as "pathways of industrial conversion and redevelopment" are part of precise choices and targeted programming that is also part of other measures discussed in the past legislature (such as the reform of active labour policies), which have tried to bring together productive investments, redevelopment of the areas concerned, formation of human capital, reclamation and environmental recovery, energy efficiency and implementation of infrastructure. In short, this is an approach whereby, only in the last two years, programme agreements have been signed in seven industrial crisis areas, with the opening of as many calls that have increased to 242 million euros the total allocation of resources allocated to complex industrial crisis areas. All this to point out that we are not just discussing social shock absorbers. For what concerns the specific of the provision, it has already been said that it previews an appropriation of 9 million euros for 2018 in favor of the Sardinia Region for the refinancing of the social shock absorbers in derogation in the areas of complex industrial crisis. Part of these EUR 9 million is intended to guarantee, until the end of 2018, the usual coverage of the employees of the ex-Sydrin site, pending the conclusion of the process of conversion of the industrial site, acquired in February of this year by the Swiss company Sider Alloys. However, I was saying that we are not just discussing social shock absorbers because the measure is part of an approach of protection and development policies, in a world that has been upset since 2008 by the biggest economic crisis that has occurred since the post-war period, as we have all been repeating for a long time, after years in which - perhaps too soon we have forgotten or someone wants to forget - there has been the domination of the ideology of the market that regulates itself and produces the wealth of the nations. An ideology that has produced more poverty, more social injustice, crisis in the productive sectors and models of development. In this situation we have brought the country back to discuss industrial policies: it was not obvious and, perhaps, still is not today. In the meantime, a world has changed, industry has changed, work organisation has changed, and today, anyone who wants to govern must be confronted with public debt, growth policies and protection policies. It must be compared and it must say in what order and how it connects these three great issues. We have done so, we have also seen the limits of past actions and we have put forward proposals because there is still a lot to be done. To date, however, after three months spent only to form a government and a month and a half of silence on the level of legislative proposals, we wonder what is the strategic vision of the government and the majority that supports it. We wonder if there is one; the country has the right to know. Is it enough to unite the two Ministries of Economic Development and Labour to address the contradictions and social conflicts linked to the economic crisis and to consider them resolved? And how do you plan to combine the so-called flat tax with public investment in development and innovation and social protection policies? Continue with the slogans and the last one is from a few hours ago: you proclaimed that you would defeat precariousness with the so-called dignity decree. However, precariousness is mainly overcome with innovation and growth, with public investments that require strategic choices, those that you continue to postpone. Perhaps you still have an agreement, for example, on infrastructure and strategic priorities and axes between North-East and North-West. Perhaps that is why Salvini was absent from the Council of Ministers yesterday, where was the first political measure of this Government given birth? Three months therefore to build the Government, a month and a half to approve the first decree-law in the Council of Ministers. It seems to me that there is a great distance between what you have said and promised to the Italians in the election campaign, what you have written in the government contract and the issues you are submitting to the debate in Parliament. There will be time for the substantive debate in the relevant Commissions and in this House, however, Mr President, allow me to highlight the gap between the things announced and the things we read. The 'Waterloo of the precarious', as it was called, the great reform of the labour market, the reform of employment services in order to prepare for the arrival of the income of citizenship: I do not think that we are still facing this. We are faced with none of this. And also on vouchers and riders we are merely referring to Parliament and national bargaining. Yet some ideas and some practices circulate, just look at the Municipality of Bologna and the Lazio Region. There will be time to discuss merit and we will not miss our proposals, but, at least in this House, we are not dealing the truth with propaganda: no precarious person from today feels more protected, while surely the business world seems quite frightened. I declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u113	Mr Bergesio (L-SP). Mr President, representatives of the Government, fellow senators, the measure that the House has already approved and that now, with our vote, is going to be converted into law, provides for the extension to 2018 of the possibility for companies located in complex crisis areas to benefit from social shock absorbers by way of derogation. The measure establishes the measures for the completion of plans for new industrialization, recovery or keeping employment related to company crises, and, for the Region of Sardinia, the possibility to allocate additional resources, up to the limit of 9 million euros, for specific employment situations existing on its territory with burden borne by the social fund for employment and training. This measure represents the last decree-law launched by the previous government, the Government Gentiloni Silveri, the last intervention approved by the parties that today are in opposition and that were to the government before March 4. It, in fact, denounces the serious employment problems resulting from the crisis of strategic enterprises for the economy of the Country: let us remember, as an example, the ILVA of Taranto, the AST of Terni, the Lucchini of Piombino and Trieste; all different realities and, at the same time, affected by the financial economic crisis that the Country is going through but above all by the lack of a forward-looking industrial policy that protected Italian excellence and defended them from the unfair competition of the foreign countries. I want to say this to those who have preceded us, to those who already say that this Government is not doing: I think that we, in thirty days, have done more things than others in five years! [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] In the specific case of Sardinia, then, the mistake made at the time was to try to extend industrialization in an unplanned way to different territorial realities of the island, without a serious combination combined with tourism, agriculture and many of those aspects that today will be possible to implement because even in the delegations this Government had the foresight to put together the important Ministries, in the example of what happened in the Council of Ministers last night, so that we will have the opportunity to give this island, as Mr Solinas said before, a solution of economic, social continuity and a future for the young people of this island so important. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] In order for industrial conversion and redevelopment projects to be successful, a serious industrial policy must be pursued which does not follow a pre-packaged or generalized model, but which looks at the peculiarity and territorial sustainability (we must go down to the level of the territories). The data - which are about 162 business crisis tables open at the MISE and a very high unemployment rate in 2017 - lead us to think that industrial redevelopment tout court is not always the right way for job recovery, because the processes are long, cumbersome and sometimes ineffective; but meanwhile the workers, especially those of the territorial industries, remain without work, without income coverage also because of the reform of the social shock absorbers operated by the central-left government. Because the previous Government - and it is worth remembering in this House - to promote the jobs act introduced the revision of the discipline on social shock absorbers, confining the Integration Fund to instrument of support in constancy of employment relationship, with exclusion for definitive cessation of business activity and reducing its duration. The amendment to Legislative Decree no. 148 of 2015, as mentioned above, made in the last budget law with paragraph 133, recognizes the possibility of extension of the Integration Fund. These are twelve additional months in case of corporate reorganization and six months in case of crisis, but only for the years 2018 and 2019, up to the maximum amount of expenditure of 100 million euros and provided that they are companies of strategic importance also at regional level, but with a staff of more than 100 units. These interventions clearly show that the Left has only had an eye for a certain type of industry, not dealing with how to ensure continuity of income, subsidies and guarantees of welfare for the unemployed of the smaller realities, of the many small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] Yet small and medium-sized enterprises constitute the economic fabric of our country, they represent 99 percent of the production system, creating employment for 65% of the employees. The vice-premier Matteo Salvini and Di Maio did well to attend the Confartigianato assembly, because I believe it was an important act of relationship, dignity and above all of conversation with these representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises, a fundamental fabric of our country that we want to help and not abandon. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] That is why we firmly believe in the reforms that this Government must make: in flat tax, in a simplified and facilitated taxation regime that reduces the burdens arising from the various bureaucratic obligations, as well as in the substantial modification of the unqualified Fornero law. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] that restores the right dignity to workers already at retirement age, who have in fact been deprived of the possibility of rest. Do you think it is correct for an employee to retire with 41 years' contributions because he carries out a customary job and perhaps the employer, who has not done that activity but an even more usual one because he has worked since the age of ten, does not yet retire? This is not right, it is completely wrong and we want to reform these principles. Since 2007, the crisis has hit the manufacturing sector very hard, not only in Italy, but also in Spain, which for example has experienced a 25% reduction in industrial production, and in France, where the decline has been 12%; from this disaster it is saved, after a first five-year period with some problems, only Germany, overcoming the problem of weak domestic demand precisely with exports. I do not wish to go into the German case, but simply to remind you that the trade surplus, which heavily violates the Maastricht criteria and which no one is obliged to comply with, in this case it has saved Germany from the crisis; in addition to this, the single currency has also given them a great deal of help, but on this issue I am not going any further. Therefore it may be necessary to rethink also the whole system that from the calls of Invitalia leads then to realize the processes of redevelopment and reindustrialization characterized by slowness and many times from ineffectiveness. We have also welcomed the Government's proposal to involve parliamentarians in the crisis tables in the Ministry, of course as listeners, in the majority and in the opposition: we do not think it is a question, as many have said, of politicizing these tables, but of giving us the correct information to bring back to the companies and employees present on our territory. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude Senator, please. Mr Bergesio (L-SP). I shall conclude by voting in favour on behalf of the Lega Group, which I have the honour to represent. However, I am voting not on the basis of a consensus and approval of what was put in place by the previous Government, but on the grounds that the resources have now been allocated and unblocked would mean giving a breath of oxygen to a thousand workers for a further six months. We are sure, however, that this will not be enough and that we will immediately have to get to work in the relevant Commissions and in the House, together with the Government, in order to definitively fill the gap between the demand for work and the safety of a job, which satisfies the dignified life of every worker, giving full application to the provisions of Article 1 of our Constitution. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u116	FLORIS (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I would like to have before us today the Deputy Prime Minister Di Maio, as well as Minister at the MISE, the productive activities, Minister for Labour (and perhaps other positions he holds). We are sure that this will not be enough: these are the words of those who preceded me, Senator Bergesio. I am almost sure that this will not be enough to give a certainty, both for the latter, both for the Matrica, and for the Sulcis, and for the North-West of Sardinia, the area of Porto Torres, in the Sassarese. On the contrary, I am deeply concerned and if I had not been here today I would be even more concerned; the expressions of solidarity in this House, on the other hand, encourage me and I hope that I will save these two industrial areas of national interest. I repeat, of national interest. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Areas and industrial activities which have been included in the Sardinian context by the will of national policy. Of course, we Sardinians were very pleased, because one of these areas (I am referring to that of Portovesme, at this moment, located in the Sulcis area) has come to give work to more than 4,000 employees and we are currently trying to save 380-400 of them. There is a serious defect in the industrialization in Sardinia of the past period and I am concerned because the resources, although substantial, destined to that area... [[Brusio.]] I'm sorry, if it were possible to have less resonance. [[Call the president back.]] Thank you. I said that the areas that have been the subject of this measure today must be carefully followed by you by the majority, who have committed themselves to saving these two areas. The Sulcis, as I said (so much because someone talks about it knowing what he is talking about, while others may not know it), is the poorest province of Italy: 50 percent and more of youth unemployment and a school dropout that I would not even say what it is, because it is simply shameful. Then well stick to this area your insights or ideas to form new work. I am referring, for example, to the work generated by the guarantee skills, that is, the work that is assured to those who have not attended school, do not have schooling, but should go to work in the industrial sites after a preparation found, precisely, with this formula and with this measure. Therefore, the concern that Bergesio expressed before - and for which I thank him - I also have it. I am sure that, without further control of the national apparatus for companies and industries in the territories of Sulcyan and Sassarese, we will probably come here in six months to tell us that we have wasted resources and I do not want that to happen. I therefore call on those who have national responsibilities and who have wanted these industrial settlements at the Sardinian territorial level to be careful so that there is genuine industrial recovery. Before me, Mr Solinas said that the new owners of the old Sernam, today Sider Alloys, are taking their first steps. I hope that these first steps, which are not expected to be the best, will then be the ones that will allow industry and the aluminium pole to resume national and even European hegemony. I would remind you that the American company... which had two offices in Europe, one in Sardinia and one in Spain, decided to keep the Spanish company alive. Why? Have you wondered why? Production in Sardinia cost much more and state aid was considered to be those which allowed the cost of energy to be equal to that of the rest of the national and European territory. That, then - and I am really closing my speech - is what I would like to see done in politics and here in the Senate: to put the deficits on an island back together in order to create development, an island which, moreover, has no infrastructure, because the railways are the worst in Europe - as we can talk about rail - and the roads are certainly not the best. Allow us then to be equal: we do not want becero welfare, but we want the conditions that allow us to participate in the race, in the national and international competition starting from the same line. We want to be put in a position to compete with other territories and that can be done. It is enough to recognise the state of insularity, and it is behind it: transport prices in territorial continuity, the same price for energy and all the other things that I shall have the opportunity to illustrate in other speeches. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and the Pisani and Zanda senators.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u119	MATRISCIAN (M5S). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today in the Senate to vote for the conversion into law of an important decree-law, which arrived in the Chamber after a careful examination, first in the Special Commission and then in the Chamber, where it received the unanimous and favourable vote of all the parliamentary groups. With this measure, in the first place, additional €9 million is added to the financial resources used in 2018 for the specific employment situations in the Region of Sardinia, for the treatments of Cassa Integrazione extraordinary gains by way of derogation and mobility by way of derogation for the areas of complex crisis. The industrial pole of Portovesme and Porto Torres are currently recognized as areas of complex industrial crisis. The additional resources allocated ensure the continuation of mobility treatments by way of derogation for a further six months, ending the current treatment on 30 June 2018. These resources will allow the continuation of ongoing treatment and the recovery of workers who, although they had no right, had not applied for it. The potential audience concerned is estimated to be about 1,000 workers. This measure allows the extension until 31 December of mobility treatments by way of derogation for workers in the two areas. In particular, the "Salcis Iglesiente" plant tells a long and tormented history of industrial and employment crisis, which in December 2014 recorded the putting in motion of 500 employees destined for a dark and uncertain future. The protests of workers of the Alcoa climbed on a silos at 70 meters high, after the closure of the plant, represented the cry of pain of hundreds of families deprived of the future and of the dignity that only the work can give: a dramatic request for help that cannot remain unheard. We must ensure the resumption of work, the safeguarding of the employment of a productive activity, that of aluminium, important not only for Sardinia, but for the national economy, whose interruption has impoverished our social and economic fabric, taking away the prospect of a future for Italy and making it weaker. Alcoa workers are the symbol of industrial Italy which, after a period of exceptional development, has lived for over a decade an unprecedented crisis, due to the absence of an industrial policy that has humiliated and put our country in a position of total subordination to foreign competitors, and has dispersed substantial wealth of skills accumulated in decades activities; skills that could instead have been exploited to set up conversion processes. The tormented history of the industrial and occupational crisis of the Alcoa of Portovesme therefore requires the adoption of urgent measures to refinance the chapter of social shock absorbers, focusing on plans of new industrialization and on the recovery and the maintenance of the occupational levels. In a Republic founded on work, which is ours, no worker can be left alone and without social shock absorbers. We cannot forget any worker and we cannot do so because we want to restore dignity to the workers, businesses and families that are pillars of our society, in order to avoid the risk of Italy becoming an industrial colony because of policies that are incapable of creating conditions for the development of high intensity of work and knowledge. At this moment more than 160 business crisis tables are open at the Ministry of Economic Development, involving approximately 180,000 workers. The solution of these crises is reached in just over half of the cases; disputes remain open for a long time (for two or three years), and not always the solutions identified, even with great commitment, are effective. For many companies it is not possible to open the tables of crisis, so workers remain victims of the multinationals who come to shop in Italy and then close after a short time and relocate production, as in the case of Polioli di Vercelli or the Salvi di Milano. In some cases, due to defects of form in the demands there is no access to social shock absorbers, as in the case of some workers of the former FIAT induced of Termini Imerese. Redevelopment and industrial conversion projects often fail to start, despite the abundant resources put on the plate. It is precisely on this point that we want to focus because, when it comes to social shock absorbers, the concepts of job recovery and active labour policies aimed at the re-employment of workers are often, in fact, always approached. Until now these concepts have remained beautiful words that have not always been reflected in the reality of the facts. On the contrary, we believe that the government and its work must concentrate on these very concepts. Employment recovery is the cornerstone of the reform of the centres for employment and the income of citizenship, which - we repeat - is not a form of welfare, as in short-sighted way the opposition forces are stubborn to make believe, but a measure of proactivity that will restore dignity to the workers, who for us are valuable resources and deserve to be reinstated as soon as possible in the work circuit through training and targeted actions that respond to a careful analysis and precise correspondence between the demand and supply of work of the different territories. We say "just" to the tips like the REI, which aim not at the valorization of people, but to leave them in the limbo of the hope that perhaps things will change in the future. The valued person is a person who reactivates to change his condition. This will be possible thanks to the citizenship income and the reform of employment centres, thinking of acting - why not - even in the previous phase, when the company declares its difficulty and the need to resort to social shock absorbers. To intervene with concrete training actions, aimed at making the worker again competitive in terms of knowledge and competence, would be pro-activity in employment recovery plans. For all these reasons, while waiting for the Government of change to bring the decree of dignity to the Chamber and to activate the income of citizenship for those who unintentionally and blamelessly come to visit without work, the Group of Movimento 5 Stars will vote in favour. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u122	LANZI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u123	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, I inform you that the President of the Senate has convened the Conference of Leaders tomorrow, Wednesday 4 July, at 3.30 p.m. Therefore, as today the examination of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 488 provided for in the timetable for the current week has been completed, tomorrow's session will begin at 5 p.m. to announce to the House the new schedule of proceedings, at the outcome of the Conference of the Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u125	Mr President, the Group... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u126	The senators who want to leave the Chamber do so in the respect of the senator who is speaking.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u127	Mr Parrini (PD). The Democratic Party Group, for the fourth time in a row in this House, is forced to raise the issue of the refusal by ministers Salvini and Bonafede to come to the Senate's institutional seat to answer questions that two members of the Democratic Party, myself and Senator Misiani, have presented about a story that, even for the events that are emerging in the last few hours, is emerging as one of the biggest political scandals of recent years in this country. A state court on July 24 of the year course ruled that the League, which today is a party that governs our country, has stolen 48 million euros of electoral refunds from Italian citizens. That money must be returned, but that money to date is untraceable; it's gone. The judiciary is making disturbing assumptions about the reasons for that disappearance, among other things following rounds of swirling and dark money that have spread from Lombardy to many European countries and tax havens sadly known. We ask ourselves, once again, to ask the ministers Bonafede and Salvini to come to this House to respond to our legitimate request for clarity on these facts, how is it possible that two Ministers of the Republic, in the face of such a serious affair, do not feel the moral, civil and political duty to explain how things stand? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Last week, Mr Salvini made journalistic statements which, in his view, had to be clarifying and which were only disconcerting. He would have said not to waste time and that the money has already been spent. It is worse if they have already been spent, because they cannot say how, where and why. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr Salvini must come to the Chamber and he must do so as soon as possible. I ask you, Mr President, to have assurances that this legitimate prerogative of the Members of the opposition is respected and to make your voice heard, together with ours, so that this scandal in the scandal may end. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u128	Senator Parrini, I will speak up for your request, as happened in the case of the previous three requests.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u131	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, today we have heard - we have tried to verify and unfortunately it is real - that the Government has not reconfirmed the existence of the Mission Structure for the coordination and impulse in the implementation of measures for the redevelopment of school buildings. This surprises us very much, because the government contract - you, Mr President, clearly know it - reiterates the importance of interventions in school construction. From 2014 to January 2018 10 billion were put in circulation by the Government Renzi and the Government Gentiloni Silveri, to intervene on the schools, in particular on their safety, but also on the realization of new schools. The mission structure had the function of coordinating all the work done and represented a point of connection with the local administrators, who rightly required the possibility to participate in the calls, who entered the regional rankings and wished to be able to improve the layout of their buildings; and so also the different metropolitan cities. Well, I'll just take two digits, because we'd like to have some explanation for the closure of this mission structure without any other way out. As I said earlier, 10 billion projects were financed, which covered the opening of as many as 10,000 yards (6,300 have already been closed). There have been completed interventions that many senators present here have seen with their own eyes, going to the inaugurations; we have all been invited to celebrate the openings of new schools, safer and more beautiful. 5.2 billion have already been allocated, while at this point we do not know what will happen to the remaining 4.8 billion, because it is not written anywhere what is the Government's intention to operate the school building system, which to date saw - for example - the Mission Structure also responsible for the derogations from the budget balance. Then, Mr President, we ask you to speak for this too, because we are living in a very delicate moment. We were shocked at Mr Salvini's statements a few days ago when he said that the Mafia is not fighting with culture and books. We would not want, within this speech, that clearly we cannot share, there would also be no understatement that the Mafia does not even fight with schools and that there was therefore almost a willingness not to invest in that area, given also the signs that this Government is beginning to give. We know very well that the school is the first legal garrison and we are convinced that we must continue to insist. We would like to be sure that, also from your point of view and thanks to the strength that you can express, this address of ours could be brought back to the government. We, dear President, cannot passively accept that a job done well, which has produced results to administrators of all political affiliations, is simply razed to the ground by those who have a passion for the ruspe and uses them indiscriminately, depending on their will. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u134	RAMPI (PD). Mr President, we learned yesterday evening of the issuing of an urgent decree-law that transfers the responsibilities relating to tourism from the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities to the Ministry of Agricultural Policies. Now, beyond the urgency that we do not understand - but we will discuss this when the decree-law comes to the House for its conversion into law - we believe that this measure is serious and wrong on the basis of a political assessment. I stress the importance of what was our choice to link tourism with culture, in what we considered and consider the main economic ministry of our country. We think that, if this country has a future in the world, it has it for its culture and that, if there is a tourism policy in Italy, it can only be a cultural policy. It was therefore a strategic choice. Yet this can be discussed. We can discuss what was written in the Government contract, in which we announced the will to form a specific Ministry of Tourism and to get there by taking a step back - in our opinion grave - that is to go back to the delegation to the Presidency of the Council, which is a mistake. But what we really do not understand is to put tourism together with agricultural, food and forestry policies. It is certainly a very important Ministry, but we cannot really understand the connection. Someone says he has to become the Ministry of Made in Italy. However, if this is to be the case, I understand that the Ministry of Reference should be that of economic development and, in fact, in the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, the subject of tourism is allocated to the Commission to which economic development refers. Therefore, if we consider the strategy of unification with culture to be wrong - we believe it to be right - normality would be to bring this competence to the Ministry of Economic Development. So, what is the reason for bringing tourism expertise to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy? The reason is not there, or the reason is there, and some of our colleagues today have said so with candor and in an explicit way: the reason is the responsibility of the Minister protempore. Let us realize - and this is why I say this in this House, moreover, in my first speech, of an institutional nature and appealing to the Presidency - that it is not possible to decide the strategy of a Ministry and the allocation of its powers on the basis of competences - I use this term, because I am a serious and diplomatic person - of the Minister protempore. This is a serious, irrational, illogical and wrong fact from an institutional point of view. I hope and believe that the majority will reflect, in the time since the enactment of last night's decree-law, which is urgent - but of which there is no urgency - when it arrives in this House and in the Commission and takes a step back from this ruin of the republican institutions. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u135	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u137	VATTUONE (PD). Mr President, every year there are many occasions that remind us of the commitment and sacrifice of women and men in our armed forces. They are many and, because of their number, it is not always possible to remember them with the attention they deserve. Today I want to bring an anniversary to the attention of this House, because I think it deserves a special memory and a special look. Twenty-five years ago, exactly on July 2, 1993 - just yesterday it was the twenty-fifth anniversary - near Mogadishu, Somalia, three of our soldiers, Lieutenant Andrea Millevoi, Sergeant Major Stefano Paolicchi and the paratrooper Pasquale Baccaro, lost their lives in a firefight. The military participated in a military humanitarian mission in Somalia, called Ibis, which began in December 1992 and was part of a United Nations operation, which had become necessary as a result of the very serious situation in that country, devastated by years of civil war, famine and epidemic. On July 2, 1993, in Mogadishu, our soldiers were attacked near a check point by the militiamen of the local warlord Aidid and in the clashes fell the second lieutenant Millevoi, of the 8th regiment Lancieri of Montebello, the sergeant major Stefano Paolicchi, of the 9th regiment of assault Col Moschin, and the parachutist Pasquale Baccaro, of the 186th regiment Folgore, all decorated with the gold medal to military valor and memory. 23 other soldiers were injured: I would like to remind everyone of Lieutenant Colonel Gianfranco Paglia, who was also decorated in military valor with the gold medal, who was a colleague elected to the Chamber of Deputies in the past. However, I believe that the most correct way to honour this anniversary today is to remember, in the first place, the reasons for our country's commitment to participating in international peace missions. Our commitment stems from the belief that the major challenges of collective security and the progressive stabilisation of crisis areas can only be addressed with the contribution of everyone and with a multilateral approach. It should be remembered that Italy's mission in international missions is appreciated and recognized as a commitment of very high effectiveness and professionalism, in particular for those civil and military capabilities that represent our operational figure. I think we should also remember that our commitment to the peoples of the nations of Africa is substantial and long-term. This means that Africa and the Mediterranean have long been a priority in our foreign policy, for the simple reason that the Mediterranean links us, our destiny, to the destinies of the peoples of Africa and the development of this area requires us to be able to implement - again here - long-term policies and multilateral cooperation. I conclude by recalling that the Italian mission in Somalia continued until 1994 and that during the operation 12 Italian soldiers, a volunteer nurse of the Red Cross and two journalists, were killed; another 107 soldiers were injured. The mission budget saw the commitment of 12,000 soldiers. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you have to finish. VATTUONE (PD). I'm done. There were 1,320 raking operations, 4,000 weapons of all kinds seized, 200,000 medical visits, 233,000 veterinary pesticide treatment operations. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I'm gonna end this, but I already gave you an extra minute. Be courteous, finish. VATTUONE (PD). Finally, 100 schools were opened and 22 orphanages were given assistance. I think it is correct and due a special memory to honor this anniversary. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u140	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, representatives of the Government, my fellow senators, also from Forza Italia want to convey words of remembrance for the terrible episode that took place twenty-five years ago - particularly on 2 July 1993 - in which three Italian soldiers lost their lives and 22 of their comrades were injured. It was a tragic day and I am pleased that this House has just reminded them of them with the speech of my colleague from the Democratic Party. I believe that we can all say together - beyond any political spectrum - that the sacrifice of those heroes is never in vain, and we want to continue to honor him. That day, on a terribly hot, torrid, dusty day, some of our soldiers remained closed inside the famous check point Pasta and were made object before a throw of stones by Somali women, even young girls and boys. Later, there was an escalation of this assault, culminating in the arrival of Aidid militiamen, who opened fire with the Kalashnikovs and even struck an armored man with a rocket launcher. It was a terrible time. I think we must now remember, moved, those boys: Andrea Millevoi, was twenty-one years old and belonged to the 8th Lancieri Regiment of Montebello; the sergeant major of the incursors of Col Moschin, Stefano Paolicchi, thirty years old, Corporal Pasquale Baccaro, twenty years old. [[The FI-BP Group stands.]] They were injured - as we said before - 22 other comrades, including the second lieutenant of the parachutists Gianfranco Paglia, who was struck by a Kalashnikov with three bullets and lost the use of his legs. He was bestowed on him for this mission, for his act of heroism, a gold medal for military valor. [[Applause from the FI-BP, M5S, L-SP and PD Groups.]] I believe that we have begun to understand from that moment that wearing a uniform is not a disgrace, that defending a flag is not an absolutely useless gesture. Said Paglia: "I have done only my duty." The duty of this House is to remember those children, to bring our unanimous condolences to their families, so that Italy can have high points of reference such as these heroes. [[Applause from the FI-BP, M5S, L-SP and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u141	I would like to thank the senators who have wished to recall this important moment in which the House takes part with one minute's silence. [[The President and the Assembly stand and observe a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u144	FANTETTI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me remind the House that on Saturday 30 June a former colleague of ours, Senator Antonella Rebuzzi, who was born in 1954 in Alzano Lombardo, in the province of Bergamo, the city that gave birth to many Italians who emigrated abroad, including our former Minister Tremaglia and who you had left to emigrate - as many have done in our generation - to find a better professional future abroad. Antonella Rebuzzi had distinguished herself for a sense of widespread entrepreneurship, which had led her to build a network of Italian restaurants abroad in different countries (in Russia, France, Germany), and was the first senator elected abroad in the 2006-2008 legislature. It has been particularly appreciated by all those who have known it and have distinguished themselves for quantitative and qualitative work in this House of particular importance. He also presented a bill for the promotion, protection and recognition of Italian restaurants abroad, which we are trying to carry on in his memory. I therefore ask you to remember her with a warm applause: she is a person who has deserved to sit on the ranks of this Senate of the Republic. (Appalusi). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency supports the remembrance.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u147	LONARDO (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking briefly at the end of the sitting to ask the Minister for Health, Giulia Grillo, to answer two of my very important questions. The first question was published in the Report of 11 April and bears the number 4-00022, the second - on the same subject - bears the number 4-00199 of 5 June 2018. In fact, the decree of the commissioner ad acta of the Campania Region containing the regional planning plan of the hospital network is being investigated. The decree identifies the macro-area of the Provinces of Avellino and Benevento, but I would like to point out that this amalgamation - as I have had the opportunity to make clear in my question - does not take into account what is the morphological, geographical and hydrogeological situation of the hilly mountainous territory, the disastrous road structure and the high distance of kilometers that separates the Municipalities of the Province of Benevento and even more with that of Avellino. In my question, I would ask the Minister to take steps to ensure that both cities, within the macro-area of Benevento and Avellino, remain equipped with a second level DEA, as set out in the previous hospital plan. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the moment the hospital in Benevento is experiencing a very dramatic moment. They left several very important primary and there are no anesthetists. This morning, four other primary officers declared that they will leave the hospital and others will leave. The hospital is in a very pitiful state. At this point, I would ask that, in order to protect the right to health of the citizens of the territory, actions can be put in place that only the Minister can take, in order to ensure that the Director-General, who obviously lives a moment of environmental conflict with the hospital, can leave his position to someone who really cares about this structure and is able to hold a dialogue with the structures and institutions. It should be stressed that the restructuring planned by the Commissioner for Acta could further complicate this serious situation and would be the people who would pay for it. For these reasons, I would ask for an early reply from Mr Grillo. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u148	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-17.ana.u149	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 4 July, at 5 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.52.
