ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Castaldi, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 840 and the question of trust. I recall that at yesterday's sitting the replies of the speakers and the representative of the Government took place, a request was rejected not to proceed to the examination of the articles, the representative of the Government put the question of confidence on the amendment entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of the decree-law and the discussion on the question of trust took place.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u5	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u7	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, at the first vote of confidence on this Government, our Group abstained, but in recent months there have been attacks on Europe, the gamble on public finances with budgetary manoeuvre, the law on self-defense, the Di Maio decree-law that penalises companies, the presentation of a socially regressive measure such as the one on shared custody and now this decree-law. This time, then, our Group will vote against. We will also vote against this because we do not like the method you have chosen: arming such an important measure is not respectful of Parliament, which would at least like to discuss its amendments and instead is deprived of this prerogative because of problems all within the majority. As Undersecretary Molteni said, landings have decreased by 83%, from last year's 50,000 arrivals to 8,000 now. The accepted applications were 41 percent. This shows that there is no emergency for a measure on the management of migrants in our country. Immigration is a complex phenomenon, which cannot be regulated by urgent decree. We agree with a tougher hand towards migrants who commit crimes and who leave prison the day after being arrested. But this is a problem of the judicial system, not migration. What is unacceptable is to equate immigration with crime, or even terrorism, as some colleagues in the League continue to do. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD]] I would like to remind them that it is mainly the services sector and the companies in the North that need foreign labour. We have listened carefully to your words, Undersecretary Molteni: what you say could theoretically be shared, the problem is practice. As long as there is no possibility of repatriation, all your new discipline will remain dead letter. There will therefore be no more security, but exactly the opposite will happen. The decree brings a series of people who are already in Italy in lawlessness. They will no longer have the opportunity to look for a job, to participate in courses to learn the language, to pursue the path of integration. They will become easy prey to crime that will use them for its illegal activities. Gentlemen of the Government, you have not been able to give convincing answers to all those in this House who have asked you what will happen to these people. As many have already pointed out, migration is the question of the century. We are close to an Africa shaken by wars and natural disasters, by oppressive regimes without freedom of speech and rights for women and homosexuals. Migration will always exist, one must find a way to manage it. And then surely you have to work on the causes and to prevent departures... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u8	Colleagues, the senator is intervening, try to keep quiet, lower your voices and try to keep the government's benches free. Let us continue in a respectful way.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u9	Senator Unterberger, you can continue your speech. UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). But we also need a constructive approach for people who are already in Italy. The key word is integration, which is completely absent in the speeches of this Government. On the contrary, you drastically cut the funds for projects that have worked well so far and do not take into account that our societies, which age and do not have children, need integrated migrants, who work, pay taxes, contribute to the maintenance of the pension system. It is useless to promise uncultivated land to the Italians as an incentive to birth. I doubt this will do any good. Rather than bringing hundreds of thousands of migrants into lawlessness, it would be necessary to address other issues, such as the distribution of migrants from the North on national territory. In the Commission, at the request of our Provincial President Arno Kompatscher, we have tabled an amendment which also reflects the will of the State-Regions Conference for a fair distribution of these migrants. All this with the logic of collegiality, similar to what Italy asks of Europe, but also to prevent the emergence of social tensions in the northern regions. You rejected it, as you rejected the one related to the safeguard clauses and the one aimed at strengthening the instruments of control of the territory. It is a fact that strikes us, because it violates the specificities and prerogatives of our territories. In words you always say you are in favour of greater autonomy, but at the first test bench you reduce the space. With this law try to limit the discretion of the judge, as in self-defense or in the proposal on shared custody. However, a law must be abstract and general, an empty box which is filled with content by the judiciary with reference to individual cases. You think the judges grant too many humanitarian permits, and that's why you want to force them to limit these sentences. Making laws that cannot be interpreted by the courts, as you wish, is absurd; applying the law means interpreting it. Those who have the honor of ruling should always act according to that famous proverb that says: "change what you can change and accept what you cannot change." And so, until you can establish new bilateral return agreements, you have to accept that the migrants who are in Italy stay here, trying to manage the phenomenon in the best possible way. In conclusion, Mr President, we are not convinced by the idea behind the measure, which drastically reduces the resources for inclusion policies, frames and nourishes fear in the face of migration, putting migration and crime on the same footing. We consider this decree-law an act of useless if not harmful propaganda, because it does not address issues, but will increase tensions and problems. I therefore announce the Group's vote against the Autonomies. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u10	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u12	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Senators of Liberi and Equal will vote no to trust this Government. They will vote no, let us say so forcefully, on this measure on which you have placed your trust. I would like to address my 5 Star colleagues: this is your first time, think about it; this is the first time you have put the question of trust in a measure, a confidence that we could call what? As "the fruit of an unfinished negotiation," of an unfinished exchange, on the prescription? Meanwhile, the decree-law security, the decree Salvini, the decree manifesto of the League arrives at the conclusion of its iter in the Senate and once again we reaffirm what we said also on the occasion of the inauguration of this Government, when we turned to the 5 Stars saying: remember that it is born under the political sign, the political and ideological characterization of the League. This so-called security measure, but which we could call Salvini, is exactly this: it is once again the achievement of a goal of the League to which you have yielded in a structural way. Your structural failure - I am addressing my 5 Star colleagues - is now before everyone's eyes and, moreover, the constitutional values have been seriously questioned about the measure under consideration. We have forgotten the warning of the letter from the President of the Republic, addressed also to this branch of Parliament, which referred to Article 10 of the Constitution. These values are being called into question. Above all, however, we are also seeing structural failure on other issues. Think about what is happening: now he has arrived at the Senate exam, after the approval of the Chamber, the so-called Genoa decree, with two building condons in a country that, as we are seeing, is dying of abuse and building condones. You are questioning what the citizens had trusted you with. But let's go back to our no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. Mr President - I say this to you as to all those who have spoken about the measure in question - you rightly referred yesterday in your speech to the elements that should be fundamental to guarantee the government of a phenomenon, that migration, which will certainly not disappear after the adoption of the measure in question and which will accompany us, because, alas, it is a structural element for our country and for the whole world. What, in our view, should be the elements for a real government of migration? I say three words: legality, rights and social cohesion. In this way the migration phenomenon is seriously governed, without feeding the racist drives and the social conflict. The decree-law in question does exactly the opposite. Let's talk about legality. With this decree-law, with the elimination of humanitarian protection, with the de facto reduction to the minimum terms of the system of reception diffused in favor of the great centers, with the induction to the irregularity and the clandestineness you will not produce more legality. You are consciously pushing thousands and thousands of people into the limbo of the irregularity, with all the consequences that this will bring. You know better than me that people who, suddenly, with a decree-law, are put in a position to no longer have a title, risk becoming prey and labor of crime and are pushed more and more to the margins and therefore out of legality. All this will no longer produce legality, but more lawlessness: you call it a security decree, but it will produce more insecurity. With regard to rights, I referred to Article 10 of the Constitution, but with this decree-law you seriously question a long list of rights. Mr Bongiorno is present in the Chamber, who perhaps should know something about what the right to defence and the systematic violation, made in the decree-law, of Article 13 of the Constitution mean. Instead, you are systematically and irreparably breaking the legal and rights combination, which is instead necessary to give a rational and serious government to the migration phenomenon. As for the rights, I recall the systematic violation not only of Article 10, but also of Article 3 of the Constitution: with the revocation of the citizenship contained in the decree-law, the architrave of our Constitution, that is, Article 3, is called into question. Article 3 is the architrave of our republican pact. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD]] It is in fact what allows the certainty of cohesion and it is the mutual recognition of a serious society that manages to give opportunities to all and that recognises equality. Instead, you do something that I have called incredible, but that you know perfectly well will not be able to stand even five minutes before the Constitutional Court. Criminals are criminals, whether they are Italians by birth or Italians by citizenship acquisition: they are criminals in the same way. Criminals are criminals alike. Instead, you introduce a difference between those who have been guilty of serious crimes, but who are not Italians at birth, and those who, even if criminals and mafias, as they are Italian, according to the measure under consideration do not lose their citizenship. So there are systematic violations. As for social cohesion, make an incredible operation and skilfully destroy the only system that was bearing fruit, the results, that is the system of reception of the SPRAR, organized in small nuclei spread over the territory and able to give integration. Someone, even of the majority, has spoken in this context of integration: how do you plan to do it? Do you think of doing integration by removing rights and reducing space, by devoting them only to the holders of integration, but all the others, who suddenly see themselves cancelled the title of the residence permit for humanitarian protection, those 100,000 or 120,000 people, where will they end up? You have consciously chosen, with the measure under consideration, to give priority once again to the emergency. So take away space, resources and possibilities for integration and the widespread system, to give priority to large centres. And you're talking about transparency? Big centers, therefore a whole, many people who will have a strong impact on the territory. You are knowingly choosing to fuel the social conflict. Here is the third word: social cohesion. You do exactly the opposite. This measure, this decree-law, the Salvini decree, will no longer produce security, will produce more insecurity and social conflict, because you are favoring an emerging perspective. You told in the election campaign (and continue in this narration) that you would send 500,000 people home. Instead, once again, you are producing an operation that is simply to make it look like you want to use this tool and these changes to favor this, but you know perfectly well that this is not possible, because you are not able to have the return pacts. You are telling lies and illusions, but knowingly, because you are interested in feeding the social conflict on immigration, as you have an electoral interest in fueling racist drives in this country. You're taking on a great responsibility. As far as we are concerned, when we forcefully announce our no to this decree-law, we tell you with equal clarity that in this country there are so many Italians, so many good people who from morning to evening militate in solidarity and militate on values. We will stand on that side and continue to fight, because we believe in an open, free and social cohesion society. That is our commitment to saying no to you. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u13	Before proceeding, I invite colleagues for the last time in a general way to leave the government stand free. Then, I will be forced to call them individually and nominally.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u16	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, the vote of the Group of Brothers of Italy (it is not new to announce) on the measure will be abstention. It is an almost obligatory choice for us, to which you have led us and to which you have practically forced us at the time when the Government and the majority have chosen to put their trust in the provision. Putting trust on a decree-law like this means, metaphorically, putting barbed wire around the perimeter of the majority and saying that whoever is inside must stay inside (and it is better than not disturbing too much), while whoever is outside must stay out and cannot approach. We have tried to improve, to amend, to help make the text more consistent with what was our electoral mandate and our commitments with the citizens, but we have not succeeded. We immediately found this in the Commission, Mr President, when our amendments were all inevitably rejected and even considered inadmissible, in accordance with procedures which we consider very questionable, perhaps even arbitrary. It is not possible that anything which is likely to create embarrassment within the majority in terms of amendments should be submitted to the guillotine of Article 81 in the 5th Commission or considered to be outside the field, when similar or equal amendments by the majority are accepted and put to the vote. Having had neither the political nor the technical opportunity to discuss the matter, the majority decided to close down and try to solve their problems. In this, we also record an objective debasement of the role of the Senate and the Chambers in general. It is certainly not a new subject, a great deal has been said about it in recent years, but I record the fact that, in addition to discussing only decrees-laws, the question of trust is even raised on them. So what role can we play? I also address my fellow Members who were in opposition in the last parliamentary term, who are now in the majority and who had announced that they wanted to reform Parliament, opening it as if it were a tuna box. But, in reality, more than opening up Parliament, they emptied it. They themselves who, alas, do not realize this, are victims of this way of proceeding which makes our efforts often useless and useless. Of course, the proposals we have made remain in the record, but the impossibility of affecting measures whose content is decided not in this House, but outside between arrivals of airplanes, does not make our work up to what the citizens probably expected. We have the feeling that the so-called security decree has lost some weight between the election campaign, the drafting of the text at the Ministry and, then, the tiring majority agreement. Today we also record the reverse on the abusive occupations of Confédération. We could not do more to send the majority a message of willingness to cooperate. However - I say this once again - it must be clear that on the issues of the fight against illegal immigration and the security of citizens Brothers of Italy and the Italian political right are there, there have been and will still be. We share the original spirit of the measure, aimed at overthrowing the cultural and political mainstream of the last five or six years, which can be summarized as follows: we welcome all foreigners, we go to take them off the Libyan coast, we take them to Italy and we host them at the expense of taxpayers with 35 euros a day, we bring into Italy 600,000 young men to whom we do not know what work to give, while, at the same time every year 100,000 young Italians leave the country to seek luck elsewhere. This is what has happened in recent years: you have allowed the face and structure of our society and our communities and cities to be transfigured due to episodes of violence and crime. In fact, it is clear that hundreds of thousands of people who do not have a job and do not know what to do become soon, indeed very soon, criminal labour. We shared the philosophy and spirit that had informed the provision, but then, at the final date, there are some things that would have been better there weren't and others that, in fact, are missing. There is, for example, a lack of reference to the crime of Islamic fundamentalism - we repeat this once again, after colleagues in general have already said so. There is a need for a very harsh and strict attitude to those who, even in a hidden way, finance cultural and religious centers and mosques where hatred against the institutions and democracy of this country can be preached and in this regard we called for a stronger commitment also to foreign funding for these mosques and cultural centers. There is the emerging and dramatic problem of the Chinese mob and, above all, of the Nigerian mob (the chronicles have spoken about it for weeks) and we asked for a specialization of the prosecutors on this phenomenon but, once again, we did not have a single word of reply. Since we have spoken very often about the ruppa and the Roma camps, we have asked to make an agreement between us, political forces of center-right, in line with what has been said above all by the North League: we bonify, census and put the Roma fields under the control of the Forces of Order and Security, extending the operation of the Safe Roads operation, and let us assume, with law, the commitment to close them by 2019. Let's get this rump out of the garage and get it into action. We also offered this availability, but we were not given an answer. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is the issue of humanitarian protection, which exists only in our country and which has allowed the regime of easy permits for everyone. The cancellation of humanitarian protection has been our battlehorse since the last legislature; the problem is that you did not cancel the humanitarian protection institute, at most you reformed it, because you closed the door of this form of protection but at the same time you opened at least four or five windows. I am referring to the derogations concerning the citizen, perhaps coming from a Saharan or sub-Saharan country, who can prove that he is in danger of suffering domestic violence or occupational exploitation in the country of origin, of experiencing extraordinary climatic adversities or of needing medical treatment. You will realize that each of these cases makes it possible to accept the application for a humanitarian permit. In addition, there is the problem of transitional rules, which inevitably allow those who already have permission to enjoy them, and which allow those who have applied to be able to receive humanitarian protection in accordance with the old provisions. So the risk is that the cancellation of this instrument will not be effective; but even if so - unfortunately we believe that it is not so - the great problem of this measure remains, which we know cannot be solved in a month or a few weeks of government activity, expulsions. In fact, even if these people will no longer enjoy a permit to stay in Italy, the problem remains that the accompaniment to the border is not enough: we must bring these people back to the countries of origin; without the expulsions the provision is stunted and risks not working. Our appeal, therefore, to the Government, is to engage more in legislation and legislation on this front, more, otherwise the humanitarian protection, cancelled in part, will not solve the problem above all social and public order in our cities. A final consideration, if I still have time available, concerns the reporting of expenses and money received from Onlus and cooperatives. The criminal business around the reception allowed "non-profit" associations to never have to report what they did. I register the will to introduce a norm in this direction, but I remember that a norm of this kind already exists and has been inserted in the so-called Minniti decree, Decree-Law No. 50 of 2017, thanks to the commitment of President Meloni and Brothers of Italy. You don't need to write a new standard, you just need to apply what already exists. For all these reasons we shall abstain on this measure, reluctantly. We would have preferred to vote in favour if we had been given political possibilities through parliamentary dialogue. That was not the case, so our vote will be an abstention, with the hope that this will not be a missed opportunity. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u19	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote against the confidence of this Government and will vote against this measure. It will do so not only because we cannot trust this Government, but also because our judgment is strongly negative on this measure. Let us say this with regret and regret, because we consider the security issues, which are acutely warned by many citizens of our country: issues on which it would be appropriate for there to be unifying and non-divisive choices. Unfortunately, we have not seen unifying choices. We would have preferred to have a different attitude in the face of different choices, but that was not possible. Our judgment is strongly negative for four reasons. On the substance: because this measure is dangerous; because this measure is insufficient; because it is liberal and in several parts clearly contrary to the Constitution; because it has been carried out in this branch of Parliament by giving evidence of arrogance, of unconcealed improvisation and of mortification of Parliament's role. The measure is dangerous because it will increase insecurity and lawlessness in our country: in fact, we all know that a certain consequence will be the increase of the presence of irregular immigrants in Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And it will increase irregularity and lawlessness because, while it does nothing to improve existing integration policies, it does much to make them worse. The dismantling of the SPRAR system is not only absurd but will have this effect. To the government and colleagues of the majority I would like to remind you of what happened with another decree that we faced before the summer break, the so-called dignity decree. When we examined that provision, we were told that it was called a decree of dignity because it would reduce insecurity and increase jobs. We replied that the proper name of that decree was the unemployment decree. For a few days it has entered fully into force, the transitional phase has ended and we are seeing that not only does it not reduce precariousness and it does not increase jobs, but it is getting exactly the opposite effect: it increases precariousness and it is increasing unemployment in this country. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP-PATT,UV).]] As that provision did not deserve to be called a decree of dignity but a decree of unemployment, the provision in our examination does not deserve to be called a decree of security but rather a decree of secrecy. That's the truth. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The measure, then, is insufficient because it contains nothing, for example, that can allow this country to seriously govern migratory flows and accelerate returns. In this regard, I would like to say something very specific: we know that in the electoral campaign many votes were won with a robatory promise, that is, the one that would have been repatriated in a few months 500,000 irregular immigrants present in this country. Immediately after the elections, the marches started back: first undersecretary Giorgetti, then Minister Salvini told us that they were wrong and that it will not take a few months but probably eighty years. We would have expected that in the face of a reality like this and even after an admission like this, in this measure and in general in the action of the Government something serious would be done to speed up and intensify the return. There's none of that. There is no more money for return, there is nothing for bilateral agreements that are fundamental to carrying out return; there is nothing that can guarantee that progress will be made on this front. As there is nothing to help the municipalities - and our amendments went in this direction - that as a result of this measure they will have to face more burdens and will face an absurd situation. That is why the measure is insufficient, but it is also insufficient for another reason. We all know - we have said so many times in this House - that for an effective policy of governing migration flows what is mainly needed is a policy with a capital "P," not propaganda with a tiny "P." [[Applause from the PD Group]] We cannot say today that we have taken a single step towards relocation within the European Union, we cannot say that we have made a single step towards creating the conditions for amending the Treaty of Dublin and we all know how fundamental this change is for a national government of migratory flows. And we have not made any progress, colleagues from the majority and the government, because we are unable to make a foreign policy worthy of this name; we are unable to build international relations worthy of this name. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Today we are only more isolated, less respected and less able to assert our reasons. I have heard many speakers in the majority say 'finally we move from words to deeds': it is not true, with this provision we move from words to words and the last words are worse than the first. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Finally, the measure is liberal and contrary to the Constitution. The illiberal drift - which began as soon as this Government formed, with the attacks on the Head of State and the assaults on the guarantee institutions, of which the prerogatives were not respected and to which it was shown contempt - continues with this measure; it was decided to ignore also the letter of the Head of State, recalled by some colleagues, which accompanied its presentation. The points in contrast to the Constitution are qualifying: respect for international obligations, restrictions on personal freedom and the issue of citizenship. How can you believe that you will have more security if there is less respect for fundamental civil liberties in this country? [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Security is freedom: if there is no freedom, there is no security; we must understand it very clearly. I would add that the evidence of arrogance demonstrated during the parliamentary debate on this measure disturbs us: you have no right to degrade Parliament's role. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Why did this happen? Let's make a quick account of what happened. Last week we started examining the measure in the Commission; Wednesday, for a messy management of the work in the Commission - not in mine - you forced us to abandon its work, because it was no longer possible to continue under those conditions; five days after that episode, after three referrals, the question of trust in this decree-law was raised; on the sixth day, after approval in the Commission, we voted on confidence. This cannot be the case: it is not serious, as Mr Zanda said very well yesterday. The Presidency should have felt, more than it did, the damage to Parliament's prerogatives by this way of acting. Trust in itself, under these conditions, is a serious choice. We understand politically what is happening: there are things that are embarrassing the majority and the individual parties that make it up. We have presented ourselves as the party of legality, but they are condoned to repeat [[Applause from the PD Group]] ; we presented ourselves as the party of the "no" to the TAP, to the MUOS, to the whole world and then, day after day, we do the opposite of what we promised. It can be seen that citizens are now faced with betrayed promises and all this creates nervousness. Until yesterday there was one thing that always agreed Movimento 5 Stars and League, that is how to scientifically occupy every place of power: even on that front, the first cracks are recorded. Let me say that what happened about the Italian Space Agency is a shameful, unbecoming thing. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] I'll say then that...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u20	I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u21	Mr Parrini (PD). I shall conclude, Mr President. The divisions in the majority and in the government can stand there and the cracks happen; they are emerging cracks of the Movimento 5 very large Stars, so much so that the guillotine of trust had to be used to prevent such contradictions from exploding. Dear colleagues from the majority and the government, there is one thing that the Democratic Party Group wants to tell you very clearly: you do not have the right to charge for your clashes, your divisions and your splits to the opposition in Parliament and the country. This right is not there, and for that reason we shall vote against confidence and this measure. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations. Ironic applause from Senator Lanzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u24	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, as is our custom, let us begin our explanation of vote with a thank you to the Ministry of the Interior, to all the undersecretaries involved, Molteni, Candiani, Sibilia, to the Movimento 5 Stars, which brought with many amendments an improvemental contribution to the text, to the face of those who claimed that it was an armored text. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Instead, there was a great willingness. We also respect those who are the bearers of dissenting positions. Despite all that we continue to say and all the external pressures that have the objective of disassembling the economic maneuver and breaking the Lega and Movimento 5 Star glue, we assure you that you will never make it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] I also thank Forza Italia and the Brothers of Italy for their contribution. Some amendments have also been accepted in their case. Of course, they say more could be done. When you are a minority it is easier to say that you could do more. When you are a majority, you tend to say that you have done what you could do. I mean, this is the game of the parts. We accept it; we know that it is and will always be so, but it is right. Parliament and democracy are also these. The important thing was to try to give an answer in order to make the management of migration more effective and more efficient. Having listened very carefully to the represses coming from one part of the minority and, above all, having read the minority report, I have heard in this House that we have dismantled the pieces of integration that work. I wonder, then, if the same of the minority who say this today have ever gone to read the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry of the previous parliamentary term, when you were a majority, which says exactly the opposite. I read: the practice adopted determines the aberrant consequence of creating a huge mass of irregulars. You created the irregulars, not us by our decree. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] The objective data is a shortage of places available in detention centres. I am talking about those detention centers that this decree-law wants to strengthen, precisely to meet this need. That is not all, however, because the main problem with the functioning of the return system is the lack of agreements with the countries of origin of irregular foreigners. Of course we need bilateral agreements, but it is also true that they do not rain from heaven. You have to work to keep them going. There's only four? It means we're gonna do more. Minister Salvini himself returned from Ghana yesterday to perhaps create a bilateral agreement in that direction. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] That's four? Let's make it nine or ten. It is not true that it is not possible to repatriate. We have heard for years that immigration could not be stopped. Today, everyone has said that it has been reduced by more than 80%. Enough with these mantras and taboos. Just as that fact was denied, it will also be denied the fact that returns cannot be done because there is a precedent: between 2008 and 2011 we were in the government and in three years there were 71,000 returns. It's not true you can't do that. You can do it if you want to do it! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] The report also referred to the famous reception and integration and, in this regard, said that an improvement in the reception measures should be considered, which all too often prove unsuccessful because they do not produce a genuine inclusion of the people accepted. The welcome in our country often does not seem to favour accompaniment and integration, but rather limited exclusively to the functions of rescue and first reception. It is as if it were said: We have received them; we have washed our consciences; now let us leave them also in the middle of the road and who cares. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] It is too convenient to think that this is integration. The things I have just said have been certified by an Anti-Mafia Investigation Commission in the previous parliamentary term: you yourself have certified it and said that you have not been able to handle the phenomenon. So, today, taking it out on us is a prejudice, as is often the case with any measure that comes into this House. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] FARAONE (PD). The Bossi-Fini is yours! RIPAMONTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Can't you shut up once? Listen, maybe you'll learn something. FARAONE (PD). I don't listen to anything. I don't listen to crap. Shame on you! [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u25	Colleagues, I invite you to be quiet. Go ahead, Senator Romeo.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u26	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you, Mr President, I will also try to recover the 30 seconds I have lost. So, even before I ask what we're going to do with the 500,000 irregulars, it would seem right for you to do a minimum of self-criticism, telling me what you did with these 500,000. Of course it will not be easy and here too a lot of lies have been told, as on humanitarian protection: I understand that every time that today the word "humanitarian" is touched we go to touch the new world religion of humanitarianism (in this regard, I advise you to read the book of Robert Hugh Benson "The master of the world," which also advises Pope Francis), so Christian values and Christian charity are replaced by a generic humanitarianism. Go and read that book in order to understand well how one can really do welcome and integration and where these measures should be directed. With regard to humanitarian protection, say that we have violated the Constitution and that we have touched on a fundamental element. Let us remember, for the record, that humanitarian protection was introduced in 1998 by the Italian government, then led by Prodi, when, at the level of international protection there was only refugee status. The European Union intervened at a later stage and introduced subsidiary protection, which in fact replaces humanitarian protection, which is why all European countries have not adopted humanitarian protection terminology. So it's a tool you could do without, because there's the alternative of subsidiary protection. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Then the abuse of this instrument is a fact. Is it possible that it is just a coincidence that there are a lot of criminals and people who are arrested and in the end it turns out that they have this permission in their pockets? Yes, because here the problem is not to create new irregulars; here we must overcome that ideology according to which a piece of paper is sufficient to integrate a person. This is not how integration is done! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In order to integrate people you need a job and a life perspective, not a piece of paper, and you don't have to leave them at the stations, public gardens or corners of the streets absolutely do not even care about the hygienic conditions in which they live. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] I have clear the image attached to an article published in "L'Espresso" where it showed how from a reception center they ran away, climbing over the net, a lot of immigrants and the Army pretended nothing. Come on, let's pretend we don't see the so-called one hundred thousand invisible, so maybe they go to other countries. Yeah, but what about health? On the subject of vaccinations, we didn't care much about it there! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Humanitarian protection that we have not deleted, but we have only restricted and limited to more correct and fairer areas, which are ultimately the so-called special permits. Just as it is not true that SPRAR are deleted: this is another lie that has been told to confuse the waters and - in this case yes - to break the majority glue, to create dissidio and sow weeds. The SPRARs stay. Those who are in the SPRAR today will continue to be in the SPRAR. [[Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] Of course, tomorrow will be reserved only for those who have political refugee status, those who have special permits and unaccompanied minors. Asylum seekers will end up in first reception centres and those that must be expelled to return centres that will be strengthened. This is a civil system of managing illegal immigration, don't go in and then go wherever you want, while I put my hand on my heart.I saved you from crossing and we are absolutely happy and happy. [[Comments from the PD Group]] I will finish quickly, since I think I have little time available.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u27	He would've run out of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u28	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). I would also like to mention other aspects of this decree-law that have been highlighted little, because it is clear that the mass media are mainly focused on the issue of immigration and the headlights are projected on this, but there is a magical word that has never been part of the DNA of our country, which is "prevention". This decree-law speaks of measures of access to the Interforce Data Processing Centre, which can also be accessed by local police of the capital municipalities, which is a fundamental thing to track criminals like those who steal cars and other criminals, therefore useful also in the fight against international terrorism. The testing of electric impulse weapons is another novelty that is introduced, even if someone said that there are no security measures in this measure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). There's still 30 seconds I need to catch up with. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's crossed them a lot. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). There is the question of intelligence, the strengthening of information tools: when terrorist attacks happen, it is said that intelligence is needed; well, instead of saying it later, we use the intelligence to do these interventions first, which are the ones contained in this measure, speaking of wisdom! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments of Senators Malpezzi and Mirabelli]] Not to mention the extension of the Daspos for sporting events, the contrast to abusive occupations, the strengthening of the Agency for property confiscated from the Mafia, about which everyone always talks, but no one has pointed out that we strengthen it. FARAONE (PD). Time! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to conclude, otherwise I'm forced to take your word for it. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Forgive me, just one note, since they are now shouting 'Time': more than once in this House I had to listen to speeches from colleagues from the minority who had already abundantly finished their time. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from the PD Group]] So if for once I ask for an extra minute, please be quiet! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Romeo, no one's grinning here. We are in the Senate Chamber and here we listen carefully. I gave you more than an extra minute to finish your thought, please do. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). I conclude by saying that with all these measures concerning security, on which all political forces should agree (and I believe that in this House the vast majority absolutely agree), they are obviously useful to the country. Then you will see, you will evaluate, you will monitor yourself on the way, but we are convinced that this is the right path, which is the road to common sense and not propaganda. We therefore declare our vote in favour. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and FI-BP Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u31	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Forza Italia begins by saying that it appreciates this measure, which contributes to increasing the security of Italians. At the beginning of the story of this Government, our Parent Company, in expressing a vote that did not give confidence to the Government, said that we would judge the measures in their concreteness: when they were coincident with the program of the center-right we would have shared them, when they had gone away, we would not have voted them. In this measure there are certainly things that draw on the centre-right programme with which we presented ourselves at the elections and therefore we appreciate them. We, colleagues on the left, share the grip on illegal immigration and in the last parliamentary term, Minister Salvini, it was also our Groups (including the Group of Forza Italia) that led to the approval, in a Commission of this Senate, of the regulation against NGOs in order to stop an activity that was not humanitarian aid, but was of support to those who were smuggling illegal immigrants. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We the Diciotti on duty fought them even in the past legislature, Unmasking them. On all this, therefore, we are far from the left, also with regard to the controversial issue of citizenship. It is said that citizenship is taken away from the jihadist who comes from some Arab country and does not take it up to the Italian who has the same faults; but look, Minister, if they took the citizenship to Brusca, who dissolved the children in acid, instead of giving him the subsidy, it would not impress us at all. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We have tabled extensive amendments, so if there is any doubt about discrimination, we are ready to widen the field. These things don't impress us and we share them. Our amendments, Mr Salvini, called for the abolition of the humanitarian protection that Mr Romeo has just mentioned, as we have written in the electoral programme that you certainly remember. You had to make a compromise to redesign it, because a coalition government (saving this morning's newspaper reading) must have compromises. We would have wanted to abolish it altogether. You see, the difference between us and you is that we haven't signed contracts with people who are basically left-wing: we have the center-right program, as our horizon, as our moment of moral verification. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] LONARDO (FI-BP). Bravo! Gasparri (FI-BP). I said we appreciate a lot. If there had been no confidence, we would have had a battle to improve the amendments, to approve together a better decree-law, richer in proposals and solutions for the Italians. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] LONARDO (FI-BP). Bravo! Gasparri (FI-BP). Why has trust been placed? Trust is placed either when there is obstructionism (and there was no obstruction on the part of anyone: it was the Government itself that lengthened the times), or when the majority do not trust itself. LONARDO (FI-BP). Bravo! Gasparri (FI-BP). I think that's the second one I said. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It was then necessary to put on the gag. I turn to the dissidents of the 5 Star Movement: I respect them. Like when the captain of the frigate De Falco said to go aboard, everyone climbs aboard their coalitions, to make uniform and serious policies. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Senator De Falco, I have the impression that there the dissident is not you, but perhaps the others, who forget your initial plans, to make the compromise in which it waters down on one side and on the other. We remain on the right centre, which, as President Berlusconi said days ago, will have to be rebuilt. We await another decree-law, hopefully with a center-right government, that approves our amendments that have been rejected; some have been declared inadmissible, while others of the majority, on the same subjects, were declared admissible: abolish humanitarian protection and introduce stricter rules for those who attack members of the police force. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Why haven't they been introduced? I don't get it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The torture law needs to be revised. I acknowledge that Mr Molteni has said in the Commission that Gasparri is right. We have done together, with Molteni and many of you, these battles, because that rule does not punish torture, but prosecutes the police forces when they guarantee the safety of all. Undersecretary Molteni said that they cannot change it, because it is not provided for in the contract. But we at Forza Italia are not bound by that contract. Our contract is the center-right and his program. This is our horizon. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The rules for urban decorum have not been included, in order to clean up the neighborhoods for the punks who dirty them, to punish more severely the drug dealing, to fight financing from abroad to fundamentalism (they also come from Qatar, Minister Salvini, or from other countries). All these rules have not been introduced. To strengthen the investigation activity of the Carabinieri at the tax registry, to give more means and resources to the Fire Departments, who are not only praised in catastrophes, but are supported when making laws. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Finally, what is missing? I thank the Undersecretary Molteni who yesterday addressed me and our Group in his reply. We call for more recruitment and more resources. I know that the Vice President of the Council says so too, but this summer Tria has not signed the hirings and in this decree-law there are not. They will come into the budget law. But beware: there was talk of a billion euros for the security and defence sector; it has become half a billion, which will serve for the security and defence sector, for justice and for the public service. The figure is halved and the audience expands. We want at least EUR 1 billion for the security and defence sector. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We wanted it in this provision and we will ask it in the law of stability. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Vice President Salvini, if you do not put your trust you will be able to accept many of our proposals, which were also yours. That is why we have challenged confidence and we would have liked a comparison of merit. We do not vote for trust - and I am also addressing some other colleagues - because trust is a promotion to the Government as a whole and we in Forza Italia cannot give it to a Government that, with its allies, risks blocking the TAV, introducing the income of citizenship of waste, increasing taxes, blocking yards; a Government that has imposed in this decree-law to introduce a rule that will hinder evictions. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Minister Salvini, I expect you (because I know you will) to clear San Lorenzo and Borgo Mezzanone, where you went to take refuge the murderers of that girl killed in Rome. She announced it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We add arguments and proposals. We know you don't lack strength and energy, but you do. Borgo Mezzanone is in fact a dungeon that you can no longer attend. In San Lorenzo we all cried and you went right to bring the voice of the institutions, but we must make the evictions and the norm that has been reintroduced to the last hinders them, making them difficult. It was an error to include Article 31 in the maxi amendment. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I begin to conclude; Minister Salvini, we cannot vote for confidence because even on justice today, not the defendants, but the president of the National Association of Judges - whose presidents have never been close to my political side, even if sooner or later it will happen - in an interview in the newspaper "La Stampa", says that the stop to prescription is badly thought by the Government and the trials will be endless. That is what we say and then if trust is needed (because then there are the compromises on prescription, which makes the processes endless) we cannot vote for it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The "end of trial" in fact penalizes the victims of the crimes; it does not benefit only the accused. In fact, if a person has to have compensation because he has suffered a crime and does not get to the sentence, the victims of the crimes will never be satisfied with the eternal prescription or, better, that he will never get the trial closed. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We have adopted a number of measures, and we expect them to be adopted. The no-does that have been said to us regret us, because they are pieces of the centre-right political programme. There will be another government sooner or later when everyone will be back on their vessels, because ships with mixed crews risk going to break on the rocks and it is a luxury that the country cannot afford. In fact, I remember that, above all, the economy is suffering a lot in these hours. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] That, then, is the reason for our position on evictions, justice and limitation and, on the substance of the measure, especially on the protection of the police forces and the security of citizens. What is and is going in that direction is fine, we regret what is lacking and the imposition of the question of trust does not allow us to grant it. We will not vote; we do not want to be able to say in Italian bars that we do not vote for security; we cannot vote for the government. That is why our position will be very clear: we in this House today say yes to security, but no to the government. This is the position of Forza Italia. [[Live and sustained applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations. The Senators of the FI-BP Group display signs with the words "Yes to security." No to the government.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u32	Senators, put down the signs. You know very well that it is not possible to expose them and that the assistants will immediately withdraw them, as they are already doing.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u35	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time that the question of trust has been raised in this House. I therefore believe it is right and proper to take stock of the many things that the majority and the government have done over the last few months; the many things that we are doing and the many things that we are planning to do for the next four and a half years of the legislature. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I have never signed up and I do not do it today to the party of those who only indicate what has been done in the past, going to look for the mistakes of those who ruled. I am aware that today the Government and the majority have the responsibility and the duty to demonstrate that they are able to do better than those who preceded us. It is clear, however, that the March elections gave some clear indications: the citizens asked to change recipes, to reverse the course, to explore alternative ways to give impetus to the country. We started just from the weakest, even for a perhaps random fact: the first text that we had to face was the bill of conversion into law of the last act of the Government Gentiloni Silveri, that decree earthquake that we have dealt with and we are also dealing today in the emergency decree of Genoa. In that decree-law, dealing with the most difficult people in a state of weakness, we wanted to extend the most urgent deadlines and the most important reductions for individuals and businesses. We have unlocked all the bureaucratic steps to ensure that public and private reconstruction can finally begin; we have appointed a person who is outside political governance, but who is a technician who knows those areas and the problems of the earthquake victims, Professor Farabollini, whom I believe is a wish for good work in this House. In these first months of government we had to deal with an immense tragedy, that of Genoa, unfortunately consequence of the neglect in which it pours much of the infrastructural fabric of this country. The Commission has also worked on this subject, focusing exclusively on the interests of the Genoese citizens, whose lives have been shaken by the absurd collapse of the Morandi Bridge. A few days ago it is approved from the Chamber and it is landed to the Senate the so-called emergency decree that, with its conversion into law, previews to allocate 72 million euros for the displaced families, 55 million for the damaged enterprises, 30 million for the support to the income of the workers, 50 million for the municipal and regional mobility, 20 million in favor the haulers and 45 million for the logistics and the port and all this in an emergent situation of difficulties of the accounts of the State. I think the government and the majority couldn't do better than that. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] We have always said, Mr President, that in Italy that we want no one should be left behind, and even less can be left with those who have been the victim of such a tragic and avoidable situation. Not only that, solidarity for us historically goes hand in hand with dignity; a word that gave the name to the decree-law, quoted by some intervention that preceded me. I would like to remind those who have spoken before that thanks to the decree dignity a very important enterprise that was delocalizing in Poland has decided to invest again in this country, moving the production in Italy [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and another smaller company, perhaps less known but that is in my city, Flex of the Flextronics group, which had 407 employees and 227 temporary employees in administered work, one third of the workforce... BELLANOVA (PD). For the roadblocks six years of arrest! [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] Patuanelli (M5S). Thanks to the Government, that company has joined the stabilisation with permanent contracts of 100 people. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, let Senator Patuanelli continue. Senator Bellanova, please. Patuanelli (M5S). Solidarity and rights are two cornerstones of the values of Movimento 5 Stars that with this Executive we will put at the center of Italy that we want to build. In a few days we will give definitive shape to the maneuver of the people, a budget law that after years of bankruptcy austerity has rightly decided to focus, within certain limits, on the deficit spending in order to revive the gross domestic product. (at 10.50 a.m.) (Following Mr Patuanelli). We certainly cannot ignore the fact that GDP is still too far from pre-crisis levels and the European average of growth. Just the recent data on Italian and European growth in the third quarter of 2018 showed how indispensable a change of pace is. They tell us that with a deficit-GDP ratio of 2.4% in 2019 we violate European rules, as if France had not done so nine times in the last ten years, violating the same parameter that we are told today that we must respect [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups),]] As if Germany were not constantly violating the European limits on trade surplus. We are proposing for the first time a maneuver that calls into question the abstruse European calculations of the structural deficit and potential GDP; calculations - it should be remembered - also challenged by the then Prime Minister Renzi and then Minister Padoan, who, however, did not have the courage to bring their criticism to the full. In our expansive maneuver we invest in citizenship income and the reform of employment centres, measures that will help to reduce unemployment - still to 10% today, while the European average is 7% - and to combat poverty. [[Comments from the PD Group]] You left 5 million poor in this country. I ask at least respect to listen, when someone is talking [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the PD Group]] We invest in overcoming the hateful Fornero law, which, in order to pursue austerity, has created a dry leap in the attainment of retirement age, forcing people to immanent sacrifices. [[Comments from Senators Bellanova, Pharaoh and Ferrazzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u36	Colleagues, let him finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u37	Patuanelli (M5S). Colleagues, I try to keep quiet about the disasters you've done, but it's hard for me to say nothing about your rudeness. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Senator Pharaoh's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u38	Continue, Senator Patuanelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u39	Patuanelli (M5S). In the maneuver we also focus on investments, dramatically down in the years of austerity: there are about 15 billion euros... [[Lively comments from the PD Group]] FARAONE (PD). You're a slave to Salvini! [[Live comments from M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups.]] Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, I will try to continue. In the maneuver we also focus on investments, dramatically down in the years of austerity: there are about 15 billion euros additional over the three years, that can be used to improve and create tangible infrastructure, intangible and to protect our fragile territory: they are under the eyes of all the responses that the territory is giving to the rains. We are well aware that there is not only a problem of appropriations, but there is also a problem of the ability to spend that money, which is often allocated and not spent. That is why we also expect a reform of the procurement code to protect procurement from corruption, but to put local authorities in a position to spend. Mr Laus (PD). It's about the decree! Patuanelli (M5S). We want a more dynamic, more vital and above all fairer economy and a more supportive but also fairer country. In our country for too many years those who make mistakes do not pay as they should and those who are victims encounter insurmountable obstacles to get justice. The corrupted law, under discussion in the Chamber of Deputies, is a clear signal in this area. [[Comments of Senator Bellanova]] , that throws a warning to those who so far have been smart: the package is over. [[Comments of Senator Laus]] A country that wants to go back to running cannot be harnessed by corruption. To have a justice that is truly such, we must play hard to remove that obsolete hiding place called prescription, refuge for too many decades of cunning and evildoers. We are for an Italy full of solidarity, rights, dignity and legality and, of course, Minister Salvini, also of security. After years of irresponsible indifference dressed in piety, this Government had the sense of responsibility to intervene to face the structural emergency created by a short-sighted migration policy, which overcrowded and led to the collapse of the national reception system, with very high economic and social costs, generating mass clandestineness, widespread crime and systematic occupational and sexual exploitation of migrants, creating a permanent emergency that favored a cynical and criminal business. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] These are all problems that the decree under consideration addresses with the greatest seriousness possible, without the claim to resolve them with a magic wand stroke, and on which the Government will continue to work, including the many times called problem of returns of the hundreds of thousands of irregulars present in our territory, through the conclusion of the necessary bilateral treaties with the countries of origin. After years of governments selling out Italy for 80 dinars, as Senator Maiorino recalled. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] , this government had the strength to claim in Europe our right not to be left alone to take responsibility for the management of migratory flows to our continent, obtaining for the first time that other countries opened their ports, effectively overcoming the Treaty of Lisbon. After years of governments going to Brussels to beg flexibility by going home empty-handed, this government finally had the courage to rebel against the diktats of Europe and its bankrupt economic recipes, contrasting the interest of the Italian people with that of bureaucrats and bankers, without being frightened by threats and blackmail. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] I wanted to remember the things that we are doing, that we have done and that we will do and I apologize for having to read a text, because the fever did not allow me an alternative. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Fever that I have, but that does not have the majority and the government, which enjoys very good health and for this reason we will vote firmly in favour of confidence in the text under consideration. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u41	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u42	De Falco (M5S). Mr President, gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, improving a measure such as the security decree, an accident in the depths of ethical and social values and civil rights, to make it a little more adherent to constitutional dictates and more respectful of the international commitments undertaken by the country was not a faculty: it was a precise duty, to which the highest office of the State had called us. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Errani]] Parliament, and in particular this majority that supports the Government, cannot believe that its responsibility can be fulfilled and exhausted in a grey task of ratification, deaf to institutional demands and insensitive to the responsible evaluation of the concrete effects of the measure on the constitutional order, as on the social fabric of the country. I continue to support this Government as part of its overall action. I have listened with great interest to the words of my Parent Company and it is for this and for those programs, for those projects, for those expectations that I continue to support this Government. In fact, the relationship of trust that I have helped to establish on June 6 remains unchanged in its foundations, in its expectations is unchanged. Nevertheless, I must take into account the serious damage caused to the legal order and potentially also to the safety of citizens by the effects of these rules. Freedom and democracy are not values humiliated by their enemies, but by the resignation and surrender of friends. Therefore, with seriousness but with weight, I am not going to take part in the vote and I am going to leave the Chamber. [[Applause from Senators Errani and Nugnes.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u44	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u45	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, thank you all for this debate. For me, too, this decree-law is questionable both in the method and in the substance. In the method why to legislate by decree-law on a complex structural phenomenon such as immigration is not serious and is dangerous and unfortunately corresponds only to the needs of electoral ads. But on the subject it is even more questionable, because, as in the best tradition of the decree-laws adopted in this House in recent years by another majority, the title, as well as the propaganda programmes, does not correspond to the content. You don't guarantee security, but you do exactly the opposite. We are all aware and agree that the failure of the migration phenomenon has led to marginalisation and social tensions, which will have worsened by this measure: new illegals, in violation of the most basic human rights, which will create, without return plans, strong tensions in the outskirts; degeneration of the SPRAR to public management; shifting resources from the public to the private sector, even without transparency in the procurement procedure in the first draft; strengthening of the great extraordinary centres entrusted to private individuals. All this will give strength to those who make more money on migrants than with drug trafficking, and we have already known, and will provide personnel to be exploited for drug trafficking and in the countryside as corporals and masters. All this is exactly the opposite of the 5 Star program: it is the opposite. And there's no such thing in the government contract. That is why I too, while renewing my confidence in a government which has still to do in particular the reform of the statute of limitations and the income of citizenship, can only say no to this decree-law and therefore I will leave the Chamber at the time of the vote. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Errani and Nugnes.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u47	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u48	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, this measure does not respond to the premises and proposals contained in the report, it does not reduce the flow of immigrants, it does not combat the immigration business, it does not reduce expenditure and it does not increase security, because it will certainly increase the number of irregulars, as well as more than ten hours of hearings in the Commission and meetings with lawyers and professionals in the sector have confirmed us. It has been calculated that there will be about 120,000 more irregulars in 2019, among the questions waiting for them to be rejected and renewals of expiration, which will strengthen the ranks of organized crime, of work in black and of the various camoras present in our territory. These people will not disappear by decree, but will remain in Italy not integrated, irregular and not integrated in the social fabric because outside of any integration program and integration and inclusion project. People we are not, nor will we be able to bring back, as they say, to their home, because international agreements with the countries of destination are lacking. As we know and as the proposers of the measure admit, these agreements are not easily achievable. In the Commission, the rapporteur admits a transitional phase to increase returns (today around 5,000 per year) by about three years and I believe that he has been absolutely optimistic. There will be an interregnum in which only social tension, discomfort, rejection and delinquency will increase. The truth has been said by Minister Salvini himself: it will take eighty years to repatriate them all. The measure in question takes away money from integration and SPRAR and eliminates the possibility for applicants to be included in the programmes, segregating them into dormitories entrusted to private individuals under a non-activity and idle regime. Colleagues, consider that SPRAR currently employs some 12,000 people and allow the pressure of foreign reception to be redistributed. Of course, the situation was not optimal and, in fact, we had a plan to improve them. Already from 2014 there is - and should have been encouraged - a widespread reception programme, called "Tre su mille" (three out of a thousand people), which provides for the inclusion of 3 immigrants every 1,000 Italian citizens, on a voluntary basis for municipalities that request it. Furthermore, the regularized reception of immigrants is the best way to help them at home, because these children send far more money to Africa and the Third World than Europe does with international aid. This is the action that in time, at last, will produce a decrease in flows. Illustrious professors of the Catholic University of Louvain (UCL) have criticized the measure, as well as the ANCI and the UPI and many different major cities such as Turin and Bologna, who ask for its suspension, as well as lawyers such as Carlasare, Montanari and Zagrebelsky. Even the safety part does not see many of us in agreement. The last legislature saw us, like Movimento 5 Stars, strongly oppose in this same Chamber the so-called Minniti-Orlando decree. This measure went in the same direction as the one under consideration, with the DASPO, criminalization and a real police state. However, the police cannot replace the state's obligations. I vote no to this provision, but I continue to trust this Executive for the many expectations of the majority of the country, which asks with anxiety and hope for a different law of stability, an expansive maneuver, the income of citizenship and operations for the environment. For this reason, being unable to make distinctions, I will not participate in the vote on trust. [[Applause from Senators De Falco and Fattori.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u50	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u51	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I have asked to speak in dissent because I can also take the floor in this technical way because I have not really digested to the full some of the behaviors of the majority who have put to the test our desire to vote in favour of a change of pace which - I acknowledge this - is present in the measure. However, there are some attitudes that I just can't digest. Then maybe I'll abstain from voting, like the rest of my group's senators, but technically I want to fill a void. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. President La Russa, you are speaking in dissent. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). I disagree, but I reserve the right to change my mind. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But it is not a content; it is the explanation of vote that must be in dissent. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). I reserve the right to change my mind. Above all, I want to fill a void, taking advantage of the presence of Mr Salvini, regarding an amendment rejected by the majority - and that is why I am very doubtful whether or not to abstain - concerning the safe roads operation. This operation, which was established during the last Berlusconi Government, is named after the fact that, alongside the traditional control of sensitive sites, it included the possibility of making the roads safe through the patrol and patrol of two men, one of the Armed Forces and one of the Forces of the Order. The left has always contested this mechanism and has retained, obtorto neck, at least control at sensitive sites. But he said, "No, we don't want patrols." Together with me he protested against this attitude Forza Italia and protested Salvini and the League; he protested Maroni who, with me, wanted this procedure. Well, in the measure in question, the government and the majority retain control of the sites, but they eliminate, just as the left has done, the possibility that our citizens have a security plus through patrol and patrol in the streets of the most insecure cities. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]] That is what made it particularly difficult for me to vote. Then I'll change my mind a few minutes from here and vote like the Group. Mr Verducci (PD). Buffoon! THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Shut up. I've seen a lot of clowns here. PRESIDENT. - The debate is President La Russa, your Group has stated that it will abstain, so you must still have a different attitude in the explanation of vote, otherwise you are not in dissent. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] THE RUSSIAN (FdI). The attitude can be different and it is, in fact. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, it is the vote that must be different, not the content of your speech. So please, otherwise you didn't win three more minutes. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). He'll tell me after he looks at the record. He'll tell me later. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] In the meantime, I wanted to stress and fill this gap. Mr Verducci (PD). She's a clown! THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Minister Salvini, I think you've listened. Mr Verducci (PD). She's a clown! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please finish. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Of course, Mr President, but I have had several interruptions. Therefore, I believe that this measure, which is a step forward, could have been decidedly better and not be the result of a downward mediation such as that which we have also seen through the last speeches. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u52	I greet students and professors of the Istituto tecnico statale (State Technical Institute) Vincenzo Arangio-Ruiz. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u53	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u54	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,900 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 113 of 4 October 2018, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. They asked to vote first, and I granted it, Senators Bongiorno, Stefani, Toninelli, Centinario, Salvini, Barachini, L'Abbate, Mallegni and Bossi Umberto. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Mininno is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Mininno. (Senator Secretary Castaldi and then Senator Secretary Durnwalder make the appeal.) The senators: Abate, Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Anastasi, Angrisani, Arrigoni, Auddino, Augussori Bagnai, Barbaro, Bergesio, Bonfrisco, Borghesi, Borgonzoni, Bossi Simone, Bossi Monterto, Botti, Briziarelli, Bruzzone, Cioffi, Coltorti, Corbetta, Corrado, Crimi, Croatti, Crocioli D'Angelo, De Bonis, De Lucia, De Vecchis, Dell'Olio, Dessì, Di Girolamo, Di Marzio, Di Nicola, Di Piazza, Donno, Drago Endri, De Bonis, De Lucia, De Vecchis, Florisco, Dell'Olio, Dessi, Di Girolamo, Di Marzio, Di Nicola, Di Piazza Senators say no: Alfieri, Astorre Bellanova, Bini, Biti, Boldrini, Bonifazi, Bonino, Bressa Casini, Cattaneo, Cerno, Collina, Cucca D'Alfonso, D'Arienzo, De Petris, Durnwalder Errani Faraone, Fedeli, Ferrari, Ferrazzi Garavini, Giacobbe, Ginetti, Grinetti Iori Laforgia, Lanièce, Laus Magorno, Malpezzi, Manca, Marcucci, Margiotta, Marino, Messina Assuntela, Mirabelli, Misiani Nannicini, Nencini Parrini, Patriarch, Pinotti Rampi, Richetti, Rojc, Rossomando Sbrollini, Stefano, Steger, Sudano Taricco Unterberger Valente, Verducci Zanda. The senators are abstaining: Balboni, Bertacco, Ciriani, de Bertoldi, Garnero Santanchè, Iannone, La Pietra, La Russa, Maffoni, Marsilio, Martelli, Monti, Nastri, Rauti, Ruspandini, Stancanelli, Totaro, Urso, Zaffini. (Senators Aimi, Alderisi, Barachini, Berardi, Bernini, Berutti, Biasotti, Caliendo, Cangini, Carbone, Causin, Cesaro, Craxi, Dal Mas, Damiani, De Siano, Fantetti, Fazzone, Ferro, Floris, Galliani, Gallone, Gasparri, Ghedini, Giro, Mallegni, Mangialavori, Masini, Messina Alfredo, Minuto, Modena, Moles, Pagano, Papatheu, Paroli, Pichetto Fratin, Quagliariello, Rizzotti, Ronzulli, Schifani, Sciascia, Serafini, Stabile, Tiraboschi, Toffanin, Vitali declare not to participate in the vote). PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,900 (correct text), entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 113 of 4 October 2018 on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 288 Senators voting 241 Majority 112 Favorable 163 Contrars 59 Absent 19]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 113 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u55	The next item is the debate on the draft law no. 690 and 494. The rapporteur, Senator Di Piazza, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u56	Mr President, Senators, Senators, Members of the Government, the establishment of the Banking Supervisory Committee is necessary in order to give adequate and complete implementation to the principles enshrined in our fundamental Charter in Article 47, according to which the Republic encourages and protects savings in all its forms; it regulates, coordinates and controls the exercise of credit. This constitutional protection of savings was wanted by the constituent Fathers because in Italy savings have always been considered a civil virtue. The idea was and is that the entire community gains if that virtue is widespread. This is what our grandparents and parents taught us. Savings are, therefore, a virtue. The ability to save must be encouraged and protected. Luigi Einaudi, the first governor of the Bank of Italy of the post-war period, who was also a member of the constituent assembly, reiterated in various ways that placing the losses of a bank failure on the taxpayer is morally reprehensible and economically incorrect action. The State is always obliged to serve public interests, never private ones, because in doing so it would end up damaging the same public good. The Italian Constitution, through Article 47, wanted to give us a clear teaching: saving is a guarantee of sovereignty. Also the President of the Republic, on the occasion of the World Savings Day of 31 October, wanted to reiterate that the savings of families represent a whole element of strength that must be carefully protected. It is an essential condition for the exercise of the country's effective sovereignty. It is thanks to the culture of savings that as of June 30, 2018, from data of Banca d'Italia, the total direct and indirect collection of Italians amounts to 3.915 billion euros, while the private debt of Italian consumer families is 536 billion euros. A recent survey by the Association of Foundations and Savings Banks (ACRI), carried out on the occasion of the Day of Savings, shows that the desire to save is very strong and affects 86% of the citizens. More than 80% of Italians believe that savings are useful for the social and civil development of the country and are increasingly those who, when they save, perceive to do, in addition to their own interests, even those of the country. This is possible because the Italian people are one of the most virtuous peoples in the world. That is why in Italy savings are sovereign and are protected by the Constitution. Until the end of the years Eighty the entrepreneurial nature of the Italian banks, as it appeared from the banking law of 1936, was mainly a publicistic framework. The Italian banks were more than 70 percent public. Credit intermediation was essentially an administered market. The concept of a bank coincided with that of a short-term credit producer and separately, through the special sections, medium and long-term credit. The Banca d'Italia played the role of custodian and supreme referee of a model of specialization that involved the assignment to each individual bank of protected and non-defensible spaces and operating areas. With the globalization of markets, banks have undergone a profound transformation. In the United States, the reagan deregulation led to the definitive affirmation of the principle that the commercial bank could jointly exercise credit and securities mediation. (at 12.22 p.m.) (Follow-up by Mr Piazza, rapporteur). Even in Italy, in the early 1990s, the universal banking model was established as a reference organisational approach. The effect has been to widen the operation of the bank, traditionally identified by the collection of savings, on securities market instruments and the progressive failure of the separation barrier between commercial banks (they collect deposits and issue loans) and business banks (they deal with the sale of securities); barrier that came definitively to fall in 1999, during the Clinton presidency, with the law on financial modernisation, which made possible the merger between the two types of bank. In this way, huge financial holdings were raised, which could expose savers' deposits to the risks of the game of finance. We add to the latter also the interests of the rating agencies that overestimated the junk securities and lived, until 2007, a decade of economic boom that benefited speculative finance and several banks administered by bad bankers. The crisis hit the rest of the world, because many banks found themselves with a large mass of so-called sausage bonds. Of course, the financial crisis also affected Italy, even if, to be honest, Italian banks were not poisoned, if not to a limited extent, by toxic securities: the real problem of bad finance in Italy are not banks, but bad bankers. The banks have always been there. The first banks arose in Italy thanks to the Franciscans who, in the 15th century, to stem the phenomenon of usury, founded the first "Monti di pietà." Today, banks have a somewhat different function, but the goals are the same. Article 10 of the Single Bank Act governing the business of banks defines the bank as the joint exercise of the asset collection activity between the public and the credit granting activity. Raffaele Mattioli wrote: "The Bank is a sui generis company, which bears a huge responsibility on its shoulders. His cautions are never too much, his mistakes are always too serious. His action must be bold and cautious together, linked to today's reality, but in harmony with the predictable reality of tomorrow. Mattioli refers above all to the ethical qualities that a banker must have. In Italy we have many banks with virtuous bankers. There is the BCC system: 278 banks with 4,246 branches in 101 Provinces and 2,646 Municipalities using 82% of customer collection to finance small and medium-sized enterprises and households in their territories. There is the system of ethical banks, governed by Article 111- bis of the Single Bank Text. Then there are the banks managed by enlightened bankers who have set up, within their own credit institution, sections dedicated to financing civil sectors such as the third sector. Unfortunately, however, there are also dishonest bankers who have used finance for purely speculative or personal gain purposes. The events of the Ferrara Savings Bank, the Banca delle Marche, the Banca Popolare dell'Etruria e del Lazio, the Cooperative Society and the Savings Bank of Chieti, the Banca Popolare di Vicenza and Veneto Banca are evidence of this. For this reason, during the 17th legislature, the banking system was the subject of various interventions. The legislator, also through emergency measures, first faced the difficulties of the Italian banks: the national banking institutions, following the economic and financial crisis of recent years, had in fact large amounts of deteriorated credits (so-called NPLs) which were intended to facilitate disposal. In addition, the implementation of the European Banking and Credit Framework continued, particularly in the light of the new framework of the Banking Union and crisis management. At the same time, a comprehensive process of reform of the national banking system was launched, covering popular banks, banking foundations and, finally, cooperative credit banks. At the end of the parliamentary term, a bicameral commission of inquiry into the banking and financial system was also set up, which concluded its work at the end of January 2018. It is clear that regulatory solutions have proved inadequate and insufficient to ensure full protection of citizens' savings, in line with the constitutional principles laid down in Article 47. It is therefore necessary to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the Italian banking and financial system which has the task, first and foremost, to protect the savings of Italians and avoid the development of bad finance. The challenge is to keep what's good in finance by reducing the risks to which we can expose improper behavior. For this reason, the Senate Finance and Treasury Committee has carried out the review in the drafting session on the establishment of a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the banking and financial system. The draft law establishes, for the duration of the 18th legislature, pursuant to Article 82 of the Constitution, a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the banking and financial system. The activities and results of the investigation are presented annually to the Chambers through a report which may also contain proposals for amendments to the relevant regulatory framework. Minority relations are also allowed. The Commission shall consist of twenty senators and twenty Members appointed by the respective Presidents of the Assembly in proportion to the number of members of the parliamentary groups. The members of the Commission will have to declare to the Presidency of the House of Membership that they have not previously carried out tasks of administration or control or relations of collaboration and continuous advice with credit institutions and investment firms under investigation. With regard to competences, the tasks of the Commission of Inquiry are specified in detail in Article 3 of the bill, which will be analysed more directly in the debate, but I would like to mention just a few: establishing a national prosecutor for bank and financial offences; analysing the legislation on incompatibility and conflict of interest of the apical and supervisory managers; analysing the provisions issued by the Supervisory Authorities; verifying the condition of savings in Italy; analysing and assessing the public debt in the risk exposure component in relation to collateral on the securitisation of suffering; analysing the management of credit institutions and investment firms; verifying the performance of rating agencies, with particular reference to the reliability and impartiality of the rating agencies for the purposes of assessments. It will now be up to us MEPs to work to bring out more and more ethical finance that is primarily aimed at supporting the real economy of families and businesses. President, the conclusion of my speech is to be borrowed from the Indian poet Tagore, who was one of the first Nobel Prize winners in literature in the last century: When the sun sets, do not cry, because tears would prevent you from seeing the stars. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u57	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Scientific High School "Gaetano Salvemini" in Sorrento, in the province of Naples, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u58	Colleagues, in order to organize our work, since we have on the agenda two measures coming from the building, if the House agrees, I would proceed to an examination in sequence of the two measures, so that, orientally, around 15 o'clock, the various Commissions can have the serenity and tranquillity to proceed with their work.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u61	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by announcing our vote of course in favour, I would like to add very few comments. It is a question of continuing work in the previous parliamentary term; of clarifying the responsibilities and serious phenomena that have occurred in some credit institutions; of reasoning whether new rules are needed to ensure transparency and protect savers from the point of view of information, knowledge and saving instruments. Finally, I would like to say that I hope that this Commission will help us out of the abstract rhetoric of good and bad people and allow us to study new forms of legislation that will ensure the savings of Italian citizens. [[Applause from Senator La Forgia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u62	Senator Errani, I would also like to thank you for the synthesis that I hope will inspire the other speakers.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u65	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, my Group is fully satisfied with the result we have achieved, which we strongly wanted, since we were the first draftsmen of the law who, in this legislature and in the Senate of the Republic, called for the establishment of a new Commission of Inquiry to complete the work carried out at the end of the last parliamentary term. We are satisfied - even though our colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars, who then presented their bill, wanted to mark their flag - because a good job has been done in the work of the Commission and the final text has been unanimously agreed. We were interested in the substance and were able to reach it where we thought it was important and where today in the Commission, as it was established, it also allows preparatory work for legislative work. We fought for the Commission not to be yet another people's court. There are the courts of the peoples, fortunately, in democracy, but they speak with the vote and in the ballot boxes at the time of the elections. In this case we have fought for the Commission to be a place where we can ascertain the responsibilities and what has not gone, but also and above all where we can identify the legislative instruments so that we can take action already in this legislature. Article 1 has been amended by inserting an annual report to Parliament to enable it, in its entirety, to see what changes can be made in the regulatory framework on matters under investigation by the Commission. This innovation with which we have marked our activity is absolutely important, because it gives a sense of what we are going to do. We want to make the Commission the instrument of analysis so that Parliament can then put in place legislative remedies, as well as the Government in its work within the European Union. Other proposals have also been transposed, which we consider to be very important and which were contained in our original draft law. I am referring, for example, to those concerning the survey to be carried out on rating agencies and their activities, all the more important with the debate that has arisen over the last few weeks - and could not be otherwise - on the ratings of rating agencies of US origin on ratings of banks and even European countries. This also applies to the activities to be carried out by the Commission on sovereign debt, banking foundations and their activities in local situations, derivatives and the use that derivatives have made and have also made of public institutions, as well as on deteriorated loans. These arguments and objectives that we consider important, with the positive work carried out together in the Commission - for which I thank President Bagnai, the rapporteur, Mr Di Piazza and as far as we are concerned our representative, Senator Andrea De Bertoldi - are included in the final text that we have shared and written here. On some of these we have also presented draft laws, for example on deteriorated credits, which we consider very important to allow hundreds of thousands of people and businesses to redeem them, so that they can return to bonuses. We call on the Commission, Parliament and also the Government, if it wishes to take its own initiative, to intervene in this context. I say this to the President of the Commission and to the rapporteur: a proposal has not been included in the text asking that we also investigate the speculative funds that bet on the depreciation of government bonds. This proposal to investigate the speculative funds that bet on the depreciation of government bonds, which we considered sensible, all the more with the swing of the spread that our country has to face, has been excluded from the final text. I would not want this to be due to the fear of hiding some altars. We would not want this majority to have any more altars to hide. In this regard, moreover - I say this to the Government - there is already activity in progress, there is some provision included in the economic maneuver. It is a few days ago the news in the press that tomorrow the vice-premier Di Maio will receive a delegation from the associations of the victims of the banks and cannot be preached well and scrambled badly: these associations claim that what has been included in the economic maneuver in their regard was not what the government and the 5 Star majority had promised and negotiated in the electoral campaign. They denounce that this is basically an electoral scam in this case that they have suffered. We are talking about 450,000 savers and bondholders, for whom the little that had been granted by the Government Gentiloni Silveri has increased, but with limits that they basically believe make the measure absolutely insufficient to repair the damage suffered. Tomorrow the vice premier will receive them and I hope he will give them sufficient explanations of what is written in the government contract and what the 5 Stars (and not only) had promised in the election campaign. That the victims, that is, the scams of the banks, become or feel victims and conned by the government at the first act that concerns them, seems really emblematic to me. The second thing I would like to highlight is the one that appeared today on what was the government newspaper par excellence (I say it was, of course), i.e. on "The Daily Fact". This morning - I believe that the 5 Star Members have read it and I address them because it is the newspaper of reference - the newspaper headlines: "Banche, the refunds to the scams "save" Bankitalia & Consob" or rather, in a specific way, we speak of scams by the banks, claiming that a hand intervened in a code of the norm, which in fact, to some extent, protects those responsible from possible legal actions. I would like to make this clear because the Commission will have to analyse and propose solutions to Parliament and we would not want the Government to do anything else in the meantime than what the Commission is going to do and Parliament will be able to resolve, that is, to be a government that, hand in hand, continues its previous work. However, in conclusion, we have done a proactive job and will always do so, because the country needs to put an end to a situation in which the Italian banks, which are weak with the strong, are arrogant with the weak. We need strong and strong banks, effective and authoritative supervisory authorities, rules compatible with our social, financial and productive system, aware shareholders, protected and therefore confident savers, especially today that savers' savings and investments are needed even in government bonds. That is why we voted in favour and contributed to the draft law in the Commission in our examination. That is why we will vote in favour today and we will be vigilant in protecting savings, which is the source of the wealth of Italians. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u68	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank my colleagues who have spoken before me, because, as in the Commission, we have succeeded in highlighting how much this Committee of Inquiry can add to the work of the last parliamentary term and how much it should give itself rules of conduct, so that it is not just a politically motivated Commission, but a Commission of Inquiry, which must also be able to produce proposals. We are not in the year zero, from the point of view of the exploratory cognitive work, which has entered into the substance of the issues, including the pathological ones, so much so that in the past legislature we have put on the table and in the field two cognitive investigation activities, one in 2015 and one in 2016, and then an investigation activity, in the direction of a dedicated Commission, which has highlighted the limits regarding standardization related to savings, credit protection and supervisory bodies, which have this competence in terms of savings and credit. However, we must be careful, as I said in the Commission when we did the work of drafting, article by article: we must prevent this subject from being devoured and swallowed up by propaganda. We must ensure that the Commission is not an oboleum to propaganda, but is active in the field of legislation, which the country system, the economy, the citizens - I would also say the international framework - need and need. We must ensure that the long lifespan of this Commission is not the long lifespan of a scaffolding Commission, so much so that, during the examination in the Commission, not alone, we have proposed that its duration should be three years, so that the remaining part of the time should be devoted to workshop and construction work, that it really should deal in the right direction with the void, with regard to the rules governing rights, because even those who want to behave properly need rules that ensure that, in the face of incorrect behaviour, there is a sanction. We found ourselves with the excellent work done by my colleague Marino, when he conducted both the cognitive activity, and, for the part that concerned him, the investigative activity, where he was able to frame the gaps of the European legislation too, which come back, with respect to the activity of this Commission born, as well as when he was able to frame the fact that there should be a prosecutor dedicated to the crime case, as it came out of the work of the prosecutors and it also came out of the work of the Commission of Inquiry. We also need to put our hands on the criminal law of the economy, in order to clarify the new cases but also the natural courts competent by territory. But why are we so interested in making sure that the Commission is not a burden and a scaffolding Commission, but a function Commission, a construction site and a workshop? Because we are talking about a good, the saving, which, as has already been said, is worth a lot from the economic point of view: it amounts to 5,000 billion of the old lire the consistency of the savings of the Italians. And, if you will allow me, I would also make a connection with the other good of the Italians in their being natural persons, who have as their own heritage the private real estate, who cubs another 4,000 billion of old lire, which can also have a passage of value from saving if they transform their own nature. So we have a very important consistency, which even makes us say that the healthyness of our economy much depends on the consistency of the Italian savings. The Constitutional Charter has also crystallized this, and that is why we must put our hands on the rules, so that the facts that have happened do not happen again. We are not photographers of the reality that happens. We must be the changers of the wrong reality that has intervened, in order to avoid the suffering of savers, in respect of which, for example, the previous legislature provided for the institutional-normal-financial reserve circuit, certainly not large in full, but nevertheless that type of procedure had to be activated to compensate savers. And even there, we wanted to make time unnecessary, for reasons of political belonging, because too many times we want to make more one for their political part, organizing the trouble to the community, the Italians and the community, just because maybe that previous intuition was of those who had previously had responsibility of Government. We must ensure that this Commission produces, for example, information between the Bank of Italy and CONSOB, so that there is continuity of quality information, without jealousy and without spite. We must ensure, for example, that the banking foundations, with due respect for which we also have a constitutional judgment, give rise to a course that helps the life of the community and also the freedoms of the Community. However, on banking foundations, we have established a reserve as a rule in the Commission's mission to ensure that there are no surprises in the future. We have established, in Parliament's debate and also in the Commission's standard of living, that deteriorated credits cannot be entrusted to the country of umbrellas; there is a need for a person to take charge of dealing with the issue of deteriorated credits and there is also a need to re-dialogue, in order to ensure that a further power of regulation is created with Europe. We need to create, with regard to the activities of those who take on board and summit in the banking realities that manage our savings, rules of engagement and access that are very strict, that not only exclude the conflict of interest, but also verify competence as a rule of access. All this can be done, knowing, however, that the Commission of Inquiry is not born to take up the role of the judicial body, which the Italian legal system has established for others. The Commission of Inquiry shall immediately, by the power of the judicial authority, take the information and the elements to give rise to a change of rules. That is what we want to do, and it is certainly in the work of the Commission. We will be the guardians of this construction function, so that it does not become a scaffolding Commission that puts everything on the table of political struggle and propaganda. We are voting in favour of the fact that we have also drawn attention to the life of the Commission's investigation. For this reason, the PD Group takes a favourable position and declares its "yes" in the vote on the measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u71	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, we believe that it is appropriate and useful for Parliament, also in this parliamentary term, to have a Commission on the banks, a Commission which must not act as a complement to the work of the judiciary, but which must help Parliament to reflect on the legislation in force. The first point must concern the ability of the supervisory bodies to carry out properly and promptly the function to which they are called. All seven cases of banking crisis addressed by the previous Commission have been found to be inefficient monitoring of the relevant institutions. The second point is to monitor changes in the sector, with the aim of safeguarding the principles of competition at the basis of the single market. This is about the development of the banking union project, but also about the reform of the cooperative credit system. For the latter, any intervention aimed at making the system more efficient and secure cannot in any way alter the founding mission of cooperative credit banks and savings banks, which is the instrument of support and growth of the territories of which they are expression. At the same time, it is important for the Commission, always with a view to supporting Parliament's work as a whole, to address the management of impaired assets. As well as working on another vulnus: the so-called phenomenon of revolving doors between supervisory authorities and supervised banks. The soundness of the banking system, the protection and transparency of savers and small investors, the governance of credit institutions, the respect of the principles of the free market and the modalities of credit delivery are all central issues, which it is important that the legislator devotes high and punctual attention. From here we pass not only the maintenance of our macroeconomic framework, but also the confidence of entrepreneurs and citizens, that confidence that is a precondition of any policy of growth and development. That is why the Commission is well placed, with the hope that it will be able to work intelligently, in a proactive and comprehensive way to improve the regulatory instruments for the sector. Therefore, the Group's vote in favour of the measure in question is forewarned.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u74	Saviane (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee of Inquiry into the banking and financial system had already been set up in the previous parliamentary term. The duration of the term has been limited, due to the natural expiry of the legislature itself. We therefore consider it appropriate to set up a new Commission, which will have no punitive investigation into what has happened. The investigation and possible condemnations of those who - guiltyly and/or painfully - caused the collapse of many Italian banks is the responsibility of the judiciary, which we hope to make clear identifying responsibilities and faults, with the related judicial measures. It is up to the Commission to study and analyse what has happened in recent years in order to be able to then bring to the Chamber those measures that will serve to regulate the banking system, giving security to savers and confidence to healthy productive activities that need capital to carry out their business. Allow me a small analysis of what has happened in recent years. The crisis that has struck Italy since 2007 is financial and not economic. I bring to the attention of my colleagues a personal experience. Years ago, we entrepreneurs had relationships with small local banks very identity. In my territory, I had to do with the Savings Bank of Verona, Vicenza, Belluno and Ancona, the Catholic Bank of Veneto, the Bank of Friuli and the Popular Bank of the Province of Belluno, each of which was seen as a solid institution, with at the head a director of branch of the place, who knew everyone, giving security to savers and confidence to commercial and productive activities that operated in the territory. At some point, someone said that small dimensions could not remain on the market, pushing towards merging them. Initially this has had positive effects, because the value of the shares of the banks has gone up, but a few years after the scenario has changed, both for the savers, and for the companies that ask for capital. In a short time we went from a situation in which commercial activities even sold razors and hair dryers in installments, and if you decided to build a house, the bank was willing to finance the intervention even with 110-120 percent of the necessary, to a situation where savers found themselves with the savings affected by the losses. We remember the Argentine bonds, the subprimes, the NPLs, the deteriorated credits. Companies that needed capital began to talk about Basel 1 and Basel 2, and the sheds and houses that they granted as collateral for the banks were no longer worth anything, thus reducing the credit to the companies. The scenes of Lehman Brothers employees coming out with boxes in their hands from their offices were emblematic of the transition from one situation to another. It was said, for those banks, that they were too big to fail: too big to fail; instead, from those episodes began the domino effect that has devastated the whole world economy, including ours. Analysis and studies to understand what has happened, both at macroeconomic and local level, are crucial. The Commission's work will therefore be conducive to a number of rules that will once again reassure savers and give our companies the opportunity to raise capital for their business. For this reason, we at the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione are in favour of setting up the Commission. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u77	SCIASCIA (FI-BP). Mr President, gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the measure under consideration, which has long been the subject of evaluation by the 6th Commission, proposes the setting up of a bicameral committee of inquiry into the operation of banks, rather than the national banking system as a whole, and therefore also on the work of those responsible for monitoring the system and rating agencies. I would remind you that the management of specific institutions has led to significant losses for shareholders and, even more serious, for accountants, who are completely unaware of the lines of conduct, who are then negative, assumed by the institution. The Commission that is being discussed today has already been set up in the last legislature, started operating on 27 September 2017 and issued a final report on 30 January 2018 on the basis of investigations carried out in the short period of its existence. I will not dwell on the specific examination of the rules, but on two points. The first is that the establishment of the Commission will operate throughout the legislature, also using the documentation already acquired by the previous Commission. The period of validity, up to the term of the legislature, did not reflect the amending proposals submitted by the Forza Italia Group to limit the duration to a three-year period, so that the work would definitely end during the legislature. It is now hoped that, once it has been set up, it will proceed as quickly as possible and complete its work. The second consideration is that the Commission, as configured, will not have to open investigations into the work of individual operators, since investigations are already being carried out by the judiciary, both in civil and criminal terms, but will have to shed light above all on why the national banking system has undergone a particularly negative trend which, as has already been said, has not only poured into shareholders and accountants, but has brought our system to the fore at international level. Mala gestion, system errors, lightness, international crisis: in my humble opinion, for all the causes now indicated. But this will be the primary task of the Commission. In conclusion, as indicated in the Commission, for which I thank all the members for their efforts, I declare that the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u80	PARAGO (M5S). Mr President, what if I told you that our mortgage is a vegetarian? You might think I'm crazy. But that's the way it is: there are advertisements that say that "Our mortgage is vegetarian." There's another one, which is even more beautiful: My mortgage listens to Mozart. I can show it (once, when I was on television, I used to show these ads in graphics). Honestly, it's hard to understand the message you want to send to the client. Or sometimes it's so clear that they're brazenly telling you this, like in this case: □ Give up a wish? Not a chance. Yes, in fact, no more debt and then all desires become possible. The underlying is: anything is possible, even desires that are not desires, just get in debt. The problem is, when you're in debt and you can't handle the burden of debt anymore, you become a bad customer. Let's try to remember the classical studies: "bad" in Latin recalled the concept of captivus, which was the prisoner. When you're a bad payer, you become a prisoner of a sick system, of a system that is poisoned. That's why we're not far from what Stigliz said: "Blame the victim," blames the victim. It's your fault, because you've been in too much debt, you've gone way beyond what you could afford. And that's why this is, as Stiglitz, the evil of neoliberalism, is the evil of a financial system that is taking the soul of savers. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a need for clarity and transparency, for clarity and transparency, which for the Movimento 5 Stars are essential and which must certainly enter the heart of this Commission, because the Commission must demand absolute clarity in the relationship between the financial system and savers, and it is certainly not clear where, for example, mortgages listen to Mozart or even with supermarkets that become banks. Yes, because the other day I found the offer of a large foreign supermarket that proposes itself as a bank and proposes you 9,000 euros, nice ready and available. I made a photocopy so that you can understand that this deception is within everyone's reach. As I said, it is not with deception and it is not with advertising where the mortgages listen to Mozart or the supermarkets become banks, as the pumpkins turn into carriages, which defeats that financial ignorance that, in the spirit of guilting the victim, becomes the fig leaf of masters and smarties. Devious and distorted communication feeds financial ignorance. That is why the Movimento cannot accept at all a subtle communication that intoxicates the lives of citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Sometimes I like to quote grandparents, because my grandfather had the third grade and did not know how to distinguish between shares and bonds, but, like all grandparents, he made this country rich thanks to the culture of savings. My grandfather was like many of our grandparents and trusted the bank, because the bank was a bank and had not become a center selling financial products and insurance products. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Products that, among other things, are diffused with an unconscious logic, indeed illogical unconsciousness, that illogical sense that brings, precisely, the indebited moroso to be the villain and then to be the captivus, that is, the prisoner. All the more so than, to make the examination of the bad guys, we should review some small things: why, for example, financial scams are not told as duty in the newspapers, on television, by the news or by talk shows? What are they afraid of - to quote Guccini and his Cyrano - the "ferocious conductors of false transmissions"? Are they afraid that they will be closed? Well, welcome to the club, I would like to say: even in Italy there are scams waiting for truth and justice, for example, for the manipulation of Libor and Euribor rates, for which large banks have been condemned. Attention, however: they were condemned because they had manipulated those rates, but all compensations still await an answer. As well as there are savers who have been cheated because certain financial mechanisms, badly used by bad characters, become the perfect murder weapons to disassemble the savings of decent people. The 5 Star Movement has made its choice: it is on the side of a banking system that is healthy and that therefore protects savings, as it is written in the Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Control is the central issue and I wonder if it would take yet another scandal to see the anomalies of failure or insufficient control by the competent bodies. The phenomenon of revolving doors is not only what we denounce and call, often here in this House, on the combination between institutions and business banks, from Barroso, former President of the European Commission, to Saccomanni and Grilli, former ministers; it is also a phenomenon that has poisoned the system of relations, for example, in the case of Venetian banks. I want to read you then some names that have made this interchange: Luigi Amore, who was the official of the supervision of Banca d'Italia and had signed the verification on the People's Bank of Vicenza, was called in Banca Popolare di Vicenza as responsible for the audit; Andrea Monorchio, who for a long season was the general accountant of the State and became the first adviser to the People's Bank of Vicenza, then the vice president: as a controller of the budgets of the State then became one of the closest collaborators of Zonin, in the palaces of Roman power; Antonio Fojadelli, former chief prosecutor of Vicenza: in this role he dealt with a file concerning Zonin, deciding for the filing and three years after leaving the judiciary, he was called on the board of directors of Nordest Merchant SpA, which is the first controlled business bank and then definitively incorporated into the Parent Company Banca Popolare di Vicenza. And I could go on with Giuseppe Ferrante, former officer of the Finance Guard, who was head of the Vicenza group of tax police and then responsible for the bank's anti-money laundering management. I mean, you could go on for a long time, to the point of wondering if this is unbelievable. Of course, it is incredible and, precisely for this reason, I wanted to mention some names, written in black and white also in the book "Unpopular Banks," of which I recommend reading. This kind of relationship is part of the structural weakness of the banking system. Banks are trapped in these dangerous relationships. The lump of the NPLs, if seen in the backlight, would tell us many of these reports and reveal to us much of the preferential lanes reserved for the usual names and of speculative financial transactions often masked by credits. Also in relational networks we must find maps of certain acquisitions or mergers whose weight weighs and aggravates the budgets of important banks: locust funds and vulture funds are not the beast of a wild nature, but the anointers of the real economy, which is allowed to infect freely. Speaking of subjects to be refocused, I would like to say a few words about rating agencies. Just a few days ago, I read an article about "Il Sole 24 ORE" which headlined: Back to the clan of the rating: bins with Triple A. Banks, inflated budgets end up under shots, and still one of which I read some passages, which seem interesting to me: Question from one and a half billion dollars: is it possible to give a rating, without realizing that the bond is a cow's and not a banker's? That's what the SEC asked after the discovery in Standard & Poor's servers of a strange message: "Our models of analysis fail to capture half of the risks of a mortgage derivative: if we were asked to evaluate a cow-structured bond, we would also give that rating." Well, this message convinced one of the giants to close with a plea deal very quickly. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] And do you know why they can't be prosecuted, especially in America? Because their opinions are opinions and, since opinions are expressly and freely guarded, they can infect the economic system. Mr President, Parliament must regain its control of the controller, because independence is guaranteed above all by the credibility of the system and our banking crisis is a crisis of credibility. For all these reasons, the 5 Star Movement says "yes" to the bicameral investigation commission on banks. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u82	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u83	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I speak very quickly. My vote is fully consistent with what I had to say in the last parliamentary term. Since I had the honour of being President of the House, I believe that the proliferation of committees of inquiry is an absolute act of self-injury in Parliament. This is a problem that concerns the whole political and legislative system, it does not concern the Committee of Inquiry specifically on banks. Unfortunately, even in this legislature, majorities change but this orientation remains and is consolidated: there is a proliferation of committees of inquiry on all areas of human scibile. It is clear that, when the Commissions of Inquiry become so many in numerical terms, the risk is that they constitute a sort of political compensation chamber, become the seat of parallel processes and serve political forces for political exploitations, which have nothing to do with the proper role, including control, that the legislator can and must exercise. The debate that has taken place in this House comforts me in these opinions because I hear, with reference to the new institution of this Commission of Inquiry, which I chaired in the last parliamentary term, that there is no need for a Commission of Inquiry. I have also heard of subtle communications that pollute the country. It is probably absolutely true, but also for this there are rules, there is no need for a Commission of Inquiry. My vote only wants to be consistent with what I said in the last parliamentary term. I abstain from voting, I do not vote against. Of course, I wish the members of the Commission of Inquiry, which will be there and which Parliament will set up, that they will have better luck and that they will, unfortunately, deny my not positive predictions.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u84	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill No 690, as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The draft law No 494 is therefore absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u85	The next item is the debate on the draft law no. 535 and 92. The rapporteur, Senator Pisani Giuseppe, asked for authorization to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u86	Mr President, fellow senators, fellow senators, representatives of the Government, this draft law establishes the National Network of cancer registers and surveillance systems and also establishes the epidemiological report, i.e. integrating and networking the various noise registers already operating in many regions and in some provinces of the national territory, and creates an institutional reference, at the Ministry of Health, entitled to the collection and processing of data. Tumours represent 27 percent of deaths in Italy, second only to cardiovascular diseases; the data collected by the Italian Association of Medical Oncology and the Italian Association of Cancer Registers, report for 2017 about 369,000 cases of new cancers, of which 192,000 in men and 177,000 in women; every day in Italy, about 1,000 people receive a diagnosis of malignant cancer. In men, prostate cancer prevails, followed by colon rectum cancer, lung cancer and bladder cancer; in women, breast, then colon rectum, lung, thyroid and uterus body cancer. Population cancer registers are an important tool for the monitoring of oncology; in other European nations, the registration of cancers takes place on a national scale, while in Italy there are only active registers actually local-regional, collected in the AIRTUM, Italian Association cancer registers, which, sharing a centralized archive, includes 47 general cancer registers and 4 specialised cancer registers, by age group or by specific tumor pathology: on the whole, about 36 million Italians, equal to about 60% of the total resident population, live in an area in which there is a population cancer register. Tumour registers have an important descriptive function of the spread of cancer within a population and its possible correlation with exposure to risk factors, related to pollutants present in the environment or related to specific individual or social behaviors, habits or lifestyles, or still determined by genetic and epigenetic mutations; they play an important role in the orientation of health choices, promoting and justifying the adoption of public measures aimed both at the primary removal of possible etiological factors of disease, and at the carrying out of secondary prevention interventions. This bill, approved by the 12th The Commission - as I said - envisages the establishment of a national network of cancer registers and surveillance systems and the establishment of the epidemiological report with reference, according to the rewording made by the 12a Commission, the individual regional health systems and autonomous provinces. The Network shall also cover registers of pathology of national and regional importance, as listed in List A2 of Annex A to the Decree of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers of 3 March 2017. In paragraph 1 of Article 1, the 12th Commission has inserted the purpose of coordination, standardisation and supervision of data fed directly by the flows of the registers of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, as well as the purpose of the validation of epidemiological studies. Paragraphs 2 and 3, as amended by 12a Commission, refer to a government regulation, adopted on a proposal from the Minister of Health, the identification and discipline of data that can be entered into the Network; the procedures for the processing of these data; the times and methods for sending data flows; the subjects who may have access to the Network; the accessible data; the measures for the storage and security of data; the ways in which the data subjects are guaranteed the right of access and other rights established by the European legislation on the processing of personal data. This government regulation must be adopted within 12 months of the entry into force of this law. Paragraph 4 of Article 1 specifies that the controller of the data contained in the network is the Ministry of Health. Paragraph 5 raises some problems regarding the evaluation of data processing. In this respect, the 12th Commission added the principle of monitoring treatments with medicines declared as innovative to provide new scientific evidence of their degree of effectiveness. For the purposes referred to in this law, the Minister of Health may conclude collaboration agreements free of charge with qualified scientific subjects according to the notions and conditions referred to in paragraph 6 of Article 1 with private bodies and associations other than companies, social enterprises and social cooperatives (regarding the latter, the 12th Commission has included the condition that the bodies and associations under consideration are endowed with a scientific committee) and finally with associations active in the field of social health care and with bodies and associations active in the assessment of the impact of cancer disease. Paragraph 2 of Article 2 provides that the aforementioned bodies and associations may present to the Minister of Health proposed in relation to initiatives aimed at the development and enhancement of the activity of the Network in question. Article 3 amends the procedure for the periodic updating of the lists of surveillance systems and registers referred to in the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 3 March 2017. The current rule provides for the periodic updating to be carried out by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers. The news refers instead to a decree of the Minister of Health. Article 4 requires a decree of the Minister of Health to establish and discipline the epidemiological report aimed at the health control of the population, with particular attention, as specified by the 12a Commission, to the most critical areas of the national territory. The epidemiological report is defined by paragraph 2 as the aggregate or macrodata corresponding to the assessment of the overall state of health of a community that is obtained by an epidemiological examination of the main information relating to all patients and to all health events of a population in a specific temporal field and in a circumscribed territorial area or even at national level. Article 5 specifies that the collection and provision of data represents a fulfillment to be assessed for the purpose of verifying the provision of essential levels of assistance (LEA) by the Standing Joint Committee for the verification of the provision of essential levels of assistance and the technical table for the verification of compliance. Article 6 provides for an annual report to the Chambers by the Minister of Health with a detailed explanation of the level of implementation of the transmission of data by regional reference centres, centres also defined by Article 2 of the aforementioned decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 3 March 2017. Article 7 provides for a clause on the invariance of public finance charges. Article 8, inserted by 12a Commission, provides that, within 180 days of the entry into force of this law, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces will update their regulations on on oncology health surveillance and take the necessary steps to ensure that oncology epidemiological surveillance is carried out also in the territorial areas of their relevance not yet covered. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u87	Does the government representative intend to intervene?
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u88	I'm not going to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u89	We shall now proceed to the vote on the articles of draft law No 535 in the Commission's text. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u92	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I shall make a very brief explanation of vote. This is an important issue and, as far as we are concerned, we welcome the fact that Parliament and, in particular, the Senate have wanted to focus on a subject as large as that of oncology, which is still the second group of diseases, after cardiovascular diseases, which affect the population in the Western world. I believe that with regard to epidemiology and data collection we are not zero year in Italy, indeed. It has already been specified in the report how in our country there is a network of well-organized cancer registers (who more, who less) in the various regions. This is a fundamental data collection to further the fight against cancer. As we know, the three weapons we have, prevention, diagnosis and treatment, which represent the three stages of the battle against cancer, need, however, to be carried out with quality and success, an epidemiology and a collection of data as precise and as wide as possible. Therefore, strengthening the Network of Cancer Registers and creating even more organic coordination at national level is certainly a shared objective. From this point of view, I announce the vote in favour of the Group for Autonomies (SVP-PATT, UV). [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u95	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, excellent work has been done, with the full cooperation of all the groups. We know that in our country unfortunately there is a very diversified situation on the territory, between different Regions and within the same Regions. We are talking about a growing pathology, which requires a qualitative leap in our country. This is therefore a fundamental choice that, starting from the positive experience of the 47 registers, the work of many, many, Regions and associations, allows us to propose an objective: to make a real leap in quality. Coordination and the National Network must aim to build the conditions to overcome the territorial differences, which are still serious, to give additional instruments for research, to encourage experimentation and the quality of care, to help checks on so-called innovative medicines. This is a very important point because we have innovative drugs that also cost 2,000 percent more than the old drugs and it is not said that they correspond exactly to the purposes for which these drugs are given. From this point of view it will then be necessary to build a new relationship with the Italian Drug Agency (AIFA). However, we will discuss this on another level. As far as prevention is concerned, it is perhaps the key to tackling the issue of cancer. The aim of the measure in this regard is to gather the best experiences, to enhance the experiences of associations and to build a relationship with the territory, which I believe is very important. My colleagues in the Commission know that I have expressed concerns about the last article. I believe that a real leap in quality is only possible if we can achieve real cooperation between regional systems and the Ministry, on the one hand, and Parliament, on the other. The measures that the Ministry will adopt, the method through which it will implement them, involving the Regions to be the protagonists of the qualitative leap, become fundamental. I think that, where the understanding is made, a Region does not carry it forward, even the replacement power is right. But - I repeat - it is essential to work on agreements if we are to achieve the objectives. Otherwise, we'll never get to them. The last point is unfortunately the most problematic one. This is not done without resources. The idea that we can make a qualitative leap to unchanged resources is basically destitute of foundation. Let us proceed. I strongly support the measure in our examination, but we work in the budget law to build the real conditions by which the bill can achieve the right objectives that we all share. (Applause from the Misto-Leu Group).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u98	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are preparing to vote on today in this House is very delicate. We deal with a theme that deeply affects our sensitivity because unfortunately many of us have come into contact with this pathology, if not directly with people close to us. The text that we are about to vote today for almost all contains the contents that I had presented in this legislature with draft law No 92; in the previous legislature I had followed the law to the House that, thank God, had been voted there unanimously; then arrived at the Senate, but could not complete the final process. I have seen that the articles have been adopted unanimously and I hope that there will also be agreement between all political forces on the final vote, partly because I believe that such a subject is very cross-cutting. It seems impossible that our country, so at the forefront of many innovative drugs and treatments aimed at cancer patients, does not yet have a network that keeps together all existing registers, as colleagues have already anticipated. I have to say that, thanks to the progress of scientific research and the progress made in oncology therapies, we can say that cancer is cured, thankfully. Already in the eighth edition that has been published by the Italian Association of Cancer Registers (AIRTUM) and the Italian Association of Medical Oncology (AIOM) we know that, thanks to these therapies, many people have a continuation in life very long after facing the tumor and this thanks to all the discoveries that have been made. Over time we have also had significant tools such as the National Oncology Plan 2011-2013 and the National Oncology Prevention Plan 2014-2018. We have an important story: who can not remember Professor Umberto Veronesi, who has made the fight against tumor disease an avant-garde for the whole of our country. Having said that, however, we must say that, as the previous speaker said, we are not starting from scratch. The cancer registers have been operating on our territory for a long time, since 1967, however, as unfortunately often happens in health - we know - not all the regions or even all the Provinces have equipped themselves with such an important instrument, creating a heterogeneous situation. Indeed, there has been an acceleration since the establishment of the AIRTUM, about which we have heard before, which has already laid the foundations for creating cancer registers since 1997. Think that in 2011 there were only 29 cancer registers and covered 35 percent of the Italian population; now, with the latest data exposed to the Ministry of Health, more than 41 million citizens, equal to 70 percent of the population, live in areas covered by the activity of accredited cancer registers. However, in many areas there are not yet, and for this reason, with this bill we would like to be able to encourage further initiatives for new registers that are then accredited. The information collected from cancer registers includes personal and health data essential for the study of diagnostic-therapeutic pathways, for the search for causes of cancer, for the evaluation of more effective treatments and for the design of prevention interventions (just like that, prevention) for the planning of health expenses. Therefore, if you want to monitor the development of the oncology, someone needs to take the task of actively researching the information, codifying it, storing it, making it available for studies and research. Knowing how a community is, moving from health statistics to epidemiology, allows us to describe the health profile of a population and this is the purpose of the bill that we are going to vote on. The tumor registers collect, evaluate, organize and systematically store the most important information on all cancer cases, their territorial and temporal variations through measures of incidence and survival for the different cancers and mortalitys, thus providing a fundamental indicator of the quality of diagnostic and therapeutic services in the different territories. Furthermore, by providing local prevalence data and national prevalence estimates, cancer registers are indispensable tools for the organisation and evaluation of the effectiveness of primary prevention interventions in high-risk areas and populations and for dynamically indicating which areas of primary prevention to strengthen. The need for this effective system of systematic collection of personal health and epidemiological data was taken up long ago by the legislator. In fact, it must be remembered that the Balduzzi law, which considered the recognition of cancer registers in Italy fundamental, and that already Article 12 of Decree-Law No 179 of 2012 contains in paragraph 10 the norm that establishes, in addition to the electronic health file (another fundamental tool for our health system), surveillance systems in the health sector, as well as the registers of mortality, tumors and other pathologies, and treatments for the purposes of prevention. With the draft law under consideration, in fact, we finally create the Network of national and regional registers, as well as surveillance systems, completing that bill that had already begun in 2012. As is clear, the path has not been short-lived, but with the measure that we are about to vote we hope that a further and decisive impulse will be given to ensure that the tools of knowledge essential for programming are available to everyone, first of all of the national health system, but also to the citizens of this country, who will finally know whether the inequalities of treatment or survival have been reduced, whether screening programs are effective, whether those who live near a landfill or under a high voltage electrical line or work in an unhealthy environment run a serious or higher risk of cancer. That is why the time factor is crucial. We would like to make up for the delays of the past, so I hope that the law can have a preferential lane to the House of Deputies and that the regulation and the implementing decrees will be enacted in a short time, for a concrete implementation, finally, of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this measure represents an important step for our country, as confirmed by listening to the various audit bodies in the Commission. I hope that its legislative process will be completed quickly and that it will also find specific funds for its maintenance. I therefore declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u101	FREGOLENT (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, on behalf of the Group, I would like to express my satisfaction at the speed with which the procedure for this measure has been completed and at the work carried out with the support of all the members of the 12th Health and Health Commission. We have been quick, quick and incisive, moving from words to deeds and approving an important measure, which provides for the introduction at national level of a tool such as the cancer register, indispensable for the organization and evaluation of the effectiveness of primary prevention interventions. I think of the many people overwhelmed by this evil, which has characterized our century, and of their families always and in any case involved. In fact, there are about 3.4 million people living in Italy, in 2018, with a previous diagnosis of cancer. Currently in Italy there are 47 cancer registers and 4 special registers, all certainly meritorious for having addressed the issue of data collection, aimed at a cognitive analysis of epidemiological data concerning cancers in Italy, but with the limit of being precisely 51 registers and to cover only 63 percent of the national population. The measure brought to the attention of the Assembly aims to overcome this limit, in order to arrive at the establishment of the National Network of cancer registers and surveillance systems and epidemiological report for the health control of the population. It is therefore a tool that once again goes in the direction of the protection and protection of citizenship all, putting the institutions in the possibility to understand, verify and deepen whether a certain oncology situation, in certain areas of the country, is connected to certain risk factors, offering the national legislator the possibility to update the essential levels of assistance (LEA) taking into account the data collected, as well as to be aware of the goodness of the treatments with medicines declared as innovative. Already in previous legislation, and in particular in the 17th century, the Senate Health and Health Commission has launched a survey on the effects of environmental pollution on the incidence of cancers, prior to the study of the geographical area of the Campania Region, called Terra dei fioco. The establishment of the instrument contained in the measure we are going to vote on is therefore exactly in line with what was previously discussed. Already at the time, the conclusions of this study revealed the importance of cancer registers as a sign of a significant role for descriptive epidemiological determination and for the possible correlation of health indicators of the resident population with those of environmental relevance. With cancer registers, in fact, it is achieved a greater effectiveness in identifying the place and the environmental exposure, the registration of the residence at the time of the date of incidence compared to the knowledge of the only place where the death occurred, the reconstruction of the residential history of the subjects and therefore the possibility to define the time of exposure to possible sources of risk. In the specific of the provision, paragraph 1 of Article 1 clearly sets out the aims of the national network of cancer registers, i.e. the coordination, standardisation and supervision of data, fed directly by the flows of the registers of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, as well as the aims of the validation of epidemiological studies deriving from the institute of the epidemiological report. The aim is therefore to create an integrated and unique system of flows from existing cancer registers, avoiding duplication of health databases, in order to allow serious policies to prevent and protect citizens' health. All that said, I advert on behalf of the Lega Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group, our vote in favour. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u104	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, today we are finally in this House (it was a long-awaited and delayed measure) to analyse, discuss and vote on a fair, very fair measure aimed at creating a national network of relative cancer registers. I want to draw the attention of this House to a disease that continues to reap victims and I allow myself to subject to the sensitivity of this House the particular impact that this terrible disease has on the female population. In fact, it is of statistical evidence that breast cancer is the first cause of female mortality and that we are still far behind in facing another phenomenon of which there is too little talk, because the numbers are not so many, but it is an extremely dramatic situation: I am referring to the so-called metastatic tumor, that is, that tumor that spreads from one organ to the others. It is obviously a chronic tumor, and there is no way out of it. Those who are victims of this unfortunately often find themselves having to fight even with bureaucratic pastries and not being able to access in proportion to the situation that is faced with all those services that would be due to patients. Then we, with the Network that today the measure we are about to vote on, finally put a positive point on a situation that also sees the good will, sometimes very personal, of doctors, primary and researchers; a point from which to start to invest more in terms of research and prevention, because we all know the importance of an early diagnosis in cancer formations. With this register you finally put a stake from which to start again; there is finally a system of something that up to now is entrusted on the one hand to good will and on the other to the enterprise of one Region rather than another. With this register we will also be able to deal more rationally with the aspects of relapse, because having a register also means being able to take care of a patient and accompany him not only during the period of stay, but also after, towards that return to normality that is often the most frustrating aspect (the post-operative) for a person who has been operated on. The return to normality, the return to work, the return even sometimes to affections; who has passed through this path knows how difficult it is to return to normality and rebuild it. Fronting cases of recurrence means taking responsibility and taking care of patients who, unfortunately, perhaps after two, three, four or five years find themselves living this nightmare again. Through the National Network of Cancer Registers we can also better face and accompany the victims. We are finally introducing good practice. Despite this matter, I must say that I am pleased that today in this House we are all being brought to the attention of all of us and that there is such an important measure for the skin and health of so many - too many - Italians. Brothers of Italy declares his vote firmly in favour of this initiative, which will allow all of us to face this phenomenon and will place us more on the side of patients (in this case I want to use the word "victims") and closer even to all those who, every day, engage in hospital structures in terms not only of taking charge of patients, but also of research, prevention and awareness raising. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u107	STABLE (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a doctor, I would like to mention here the importance of cancer diseases and, therefore, the importance of reliable, reliable and homogeneous monitoring of cancer throughout the country. In Italy the number of people suffering from cancer, or who are still being followed because they have had cancer, is increasing progressively over the years, which - it may seem paradoxical - is a positive fact. In fact, people with cancer live longer. Cancers that were once invariably fatal in a short time, are now healable or - even - become chronic diseases with which people can live, often with a good quality of life. Hence the importance of attention to this important health issue. Another point to highlight is the fact that, from the point of view of treatment and treatment of patients, oncology takes giant steps in very fast times and is constantly evolving. This is another reason why it is important for there to be monitoring that allows the health system to be adapted, constantly and at an appropriate time, to change the pathologies and prognosis of the sick. I would like to stress the positive aspects of this measure, the first of which is homogeneity. The National Network of Cancer Registers goes beyond the local initiatives that previously were mainly the responsibility of professionals, on a local or at most regional basis. With the measure even rare tumors, neglected - let us say - in the most frequent scientific debate, have full right of citizenship in the National Network of cancer registers. This allows more attention to be paid to other patients. In general, at a time when our health system, which was previously considered among the best in the world, begins to give signs of deterioration due to the cuts and reductions made, the measure under consideration, at least in its intentions, moves in the opposite direction, ensuring better health care, supporting public health for citizens and allowing to enhance the assistance, research, evaluation of the system and, therefore, the subsequent programming. Other positive aspects are the involvement of associations (there is a huge network of them) which, in collaboration with public institutions, support the collection of cancer data and also an attitude of solidarity and help to patients at all levels. The measure under consideration, although very positive, raises some concerns and doubts about its effectiveness and timing. The planned implementing regulation to be issued within a year will have to deal with very complex and sensitive topics such as, for example, the development of a system that is able to process a multitude of data, often personal and sensitive, therefore also delicate situations. It will be a system that will take time and that will have to be complex put in place in the absence of specific funding. Another aspect of data is the quality of data. It is useless to have a uniform system at national level and to collect data if the latter are approximate, of uncertain origin and not sufficiently precise. Quality can therefore only be guaranteed by adequate training of the persons who will have to enter the data into the system and then process them. So what is not currently defined by the measure under discussion is a specific funding to ensure that good intentions, which could strongly support this aspect of public health, become a reality. The measure in any case lays the foundation for an improvement at all levels in the care of people with cancer problems, so the vote of Forza Italia will be favorable. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u110	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have the opportunity to finally complete a process that will enable us to equip the country with an instrument of fundamental importance for the prevention and monitoring of oncology diseases. A process that has been arrested in the last parliamentary term when the unified text approved in the House has remained in the Senate Health Commission without ever arriving in this House. Today we finally have the opportunity to debate and vote on a text which, unanimously adopted in the Commission, must become a law as soon as possible, because we cannot know how much could have been done if we had not lost years; how much information produced and made available through this data collection network would have given a revolutionary push in the fight against neoplastic diseases; how much would have been indispensable, at least useful and support for research, as well as functional to a more optimal planning of prevention interventions. The current draft law takes up what is already largely proposed in the unified text, but from the point of view of the last legislature. Today, as then, the aim remains to strengthen the ability to prevent cancer diseases and to study the factors of incidence, especially in the environmental field. Too many territories that still pay for complicated and high-risk environmental situations will benefit. By approving this text, we will network the data of all regional registers and surveillance systems in order to maximise monitoring and cancer prevention activities throughout Italy. We will set up a network that will coordinate the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of cancers, through which it will be possible to direct health planning through careful monitoring of the quality of therapies, and therefore in the whole of health care. The National Network of Cancer Registers will be a tool that will give a strong boost to scientific research, capitalising on resources and avoiding waste. With the establishment of an epidemiological report it will be possible to regulate the constant processing of the collected data; it will be studied on updated, precise and processed data with scientific criteria, eliminating any smaller approximation. With the adoption of this text, ladies and gentlemen, we have a unique opportunity to take off research and safeguard the health of the citizens, the health of all of us. This is known by those in this House who have fought and defeated cancer, by those in this House who have been at the side of those who have fought, by those who have finally surrendered and by whom, without losing hope, they continue to fight. And it is the hope that we have the duty and responsibility to nourish, rekindle and sustain, feeding it with results. For those who believe that they are aware that their days are numbered, even one more day it is useful to gather forces to believe that not everything is over, that perhaps there is still something to do, that there is a study, a research, an innovative element, a new therapy, a new drug that will lengthen its days. So let us rekindle this hope in all of us; let us make it grow, let us feed it, let us give it in meal certain, concrete, real data, the fruit of an empirical approach. Cancer is not a matter of nomenclature, it is not defining the unpleasant disease, as a politician claimed days ago, that comes out of it. To win cancer we can't give any glimmer of approximation. We owe it to all those sick people who suffer and fight every day, even if they are aware of the dimness of hope. We owe it to those who have not made it, to those who have been defeated, a defeat often matured only at the culmination of long therapies and great suffering. Personally I feel I owe it to those who, like me, have decided to dedicate their lives to study and research so that the tumor can one day really be eradicated and not by slogans, not by lexical games, not finding a new name that makes it more pleasant, but by therapies that are the result of scientific studies supported by a series of data that photograph a map with on indicated percentages and figures relative to the incidence of specific cancers in certain territorial areas. Where do you die? To what extent? Who is affected more than others and for what specific tumor disease? How much does a life spent in contaminated areas, where the air is saturated with poisons, where the earth, in eternal expectation of reclamation, covers and hides a blanket of residues of industrial work that travel underground and underground, transported by layers that reach cultivated fields and water them? It is necessary to know the enemy in order to defeat him and today the enemy has the features of nefarious data that stimulate us to keep our guard up and counterattack. One of the latest photographs taken by AIOM, the Italian Association of Medical Oncology, indicates that in Italy every day 1,000 people receive a diagnosis of malignant cancer infiltrating and about 500 people daily die in our country due to cancer, representing cancers the second cause of death after cardiovascular diseases. We know that the most valuable weapon we have in the fight against neoplastic diseases is prevention, which is necessary and absolutely priority for the approach to the best possible cure for the fight against cancer. But prevention cannot and must not be limited to a test and a diagnostic examination. Many factors of study must contribute to the improvement of prevention because it is a participatory process, with many actors in the field, with specific skills and certain numbers. With the National Network we will finally have the opportunity to study data on incidence, mortality and correlation between oncology and environmental factors, especially in some areas of our country with a strong tumor incidence. We will know the truth about the dead of the land of fires, my land, and the many, too many lands of fires scattered in our country and we will know how to act more effectively and incisively. The network of Italian cancer registers now includes 47 cancer registers that cover only about 60 percent of the population and mostly the data contained in them are not up to date, far from it. Just think that in the province of Naples the last update dates back to 2013, in the province of Salerno even 2011. With this text we anticipate the establishment of a national network of cancer registers that will involve and collaborate with many actors involved in the study, the fight and the prevention of cancer diseases. Free cooperation agreements will be concluded with universities, public and private research centres, specialised bodies and associations. By perfecting the quality of the cancer data collected, we will finally fill a gap of our National Health Service: every year we will have an updated and detailed picture of the state of health of all the territories of our country. An act due, expected for too many years, to those suffering from this disease, to those who daily assist with cancer and those who, with a sense of duty and professionalism, can continue to perfect their research work, which will take into account new, up-to-date, precise and elaborated data on a national scale, through a constant monitoring of risk factors. There are subjects on which numbers cannot be announced at random, without mentioning an accredited source, refer to an elaborate study or take account of the evidence of science. Health isn't propaganda. We need institutional cooperation, and that is what I call for in this House. In the face of the fight against cancer, they can only lower their flags, giving way to the sense of responsibility that must guide the work and the path of all of us. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u111	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill No 535 as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]] The draft law No 92 is therefore absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u112	I communicate that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, delegations to the Parliamentary Assemblies of the Council of Europe, NATO, the OSCE and the ICE are convened for their constitution on Tuesday 13 November, according to the following timetables: 9 a.m., delegation OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, to the Senate of the Republic, Chamber of the 14th Commission, ground floor of Palazzo Cenci; 10 o'clock, delegation of Parliamentary Assembly in CE, to the Senate of the Republic, hall of the 14th Commission, ground floor of Palazzo Cenci; 11 o'clock delegation Parliamentary Assembly Council of Europe, in the Chamber of Deputies, delegation room, fourth floor of Palazzo San Macuto; 13 o'clock delegation NATO Parliamentary Assembly, in the Chamber of Deputies, delegation room, fourth floor of Palazzo San Macuto.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u113	I also inform you that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the following bicameral parliamentary committees are convened for their formation on Wednesday 14 November, at Palazzo San Macuto, in via del Seminario, according to the following timetables: 9 o'clock, Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of mafias and other criminal associations, including foreign and parliamentary committee of control over the Schengen Agreement, supervision of Europol's activities, control and surveillance of immigration; Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle and the related environmental offences; 15:00 Parliamentary Committee on Children and Adolescence.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u114	Finally, I would like to say that the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, referred to in the motion approved by the Senate Assembly on 10 July 2018, is convened for its constitution on Wednesday 14 November, at 8.30 a.m., in the Chamber of the Defence Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u117	BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I have asked for this intervention to be made convinced that the subject dealt with is perfectly on the right day, since this morning we adopted the Security Decree, which I also like to call an anti-delinquent decree. Well, a few days ago we witnessed yet another attack, yet another act of vandalism against a seat of the League. In this case I am talking about the Livorno headquarters, which was completely vandalized by people who had nothing better to do than give this bad example of democracy. What is even more serious is that, in that context, of the so-called social centers - which should probably be defined in another way - have long chorused with choirs recalling an important historical part of our country. The most important reason for these choirs is shamefully repeated. I am ashamed to repeat in this House what these guys had the courage to say by addressing us in the League; in this case I say this to my colleagues in the Group: "In the Foibe we also put you." I repeat, a chorus repeated for a long time: "In the Foibe we also put you." Apart from the fact that we in the League do not want to go to the Foibe, I think it has been necessary to point out this sad event and, above all, to bring to the attention of many the attitude of these people, who come to me to define asocial parasites, that should be treated in a different way than what has happened so far. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I do not know how far this kind of aggregation can be estimated as something outside the law, but if there are such realities in this country, I think it is appropriate for measures to be taken. I say that on the day the very important security decree was passed. I conclude with the hope that everyone will go on the right path, including these people and that, perhaps, in the next budget law, a chapter will be reserved to buy and give to these gentlemen of the hoes, so that they will stop doing this job and will go hoe the earth. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u120	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, I have always followed closely the great work done by the men and women of the Carabinieri Army, particularly in my province, Caserta. I know many of them, their sense of duty, but also and above all the passion and humanity they put into their work. It is a hard and difficult job to ensure security for us citizens. That's why I was particularly saddened by the news of last night's death in service at Caserta of Vice-Brigadiere Emanuele Reali. My condolences to his family, especially his wife and two little creatures, are those of the Movimento 5 Stars and - I am sure - of the Senate Hall as a whole. I want to entrust this message of condolence to the words of his colleagues and friends. In yesterday's evening another silent sacrifice of a member of the Carabinieri's weapon was consumed in the fulfillment of his duty. Vice-Brigadiere Emanuele Reali, thirty-four-year-old, married and father of two four-year-old girls, effective at the operational core of the Carabinieri company in Caserta, greeted his family at 4 a.m. yesterday, while his children still slept and went out of the house to participate in the capture of five criminals who had committed more than thirty robberies in residence and eighteen thefts throughout the Campania Region and in nearby Lazio. At the end of the operation, which ended with the arrest of all recipients of the measures, Emanuele's work did not stop... alerted by the umpteenth theft in the home he rushed with his colleagues on the spot succeeding in the immediacy to block two of the four criminals. The other two, however, managed to escape and for Emanuele the duty exceeded the tiredness, the desire to return home to the family and together with his colleagues spent the whole afternoon searching the city of Caserta in palm palm with the aim of capturing the criminals. When the evildoers, around 19 of the same day, were noticed near a bar in the city center, Emanuele and his colleagues did not hesitate to launch themselves in pursuit of the criminals, who again tried to escape among the cars, in the condominiums and palaces of the area. While two carabinieri were able to block one of the two, Emanuele, careless of the danger, chased the last of the gang that, in an attempt to make its tracks lose, jumped over the belt wall that separates the town from the railroad tracks. The umpteenth momentum, however, was fatal for Emanuele, the train in transit overwhelmed him breaking his young life. He died crashed by a train, Emanuele Reali, an only child of parents who is not natural are destined to survive him, husband of a woman who will miss him like the air, father of two children so small that they will hardly remember him. He died crashed by a train in Caserta, fulfilling his duty as a policeman and citizen. Emanuele, repeatedly praised for his service operations, was an experienced policeman, for thirteen years in service in the province of Caserta, loved and appreciated by all his colleagues for his professionalism, loyalty and dedication to the values of justice and legality. The thirty-four-year-old Emanuele Reali was young, as was the enthusiasm that led him to chase a deed without worrying about the consequences, in the dark, along the track of a railroad. And he was as beautiful as his brave act, just devoted to duty. The umpteenth victim of a war fought every day, the silent one against crime. For us Emanuele Reali, deputy police officer of the Carabinieri, will be eternally young and beautiful. He'll be a hero forever. [[Stretch applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u121	The Presidency supports your remembrance. I believe that, for such incidents, it is appropriate to intervene in the early stages of the sitting, in order to allow the whole of this House to be present and not, unfortunately, at the end of the sitting. I call on the House to observe one minute's recollection. [[The President and the Assembly stand and observe a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u124	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the second time I have spoken in this House to bring the situation of Asia Bibi to your attention and to the institutions. As you know, this young Pakistani mother has been acquitted by the Supreme Court of Pakistan, but unfortunately nothing has changed in her life, because due to the riots of the streets agitated by the Islamists, the Pakistani Government has decided to hold her in Pakistan until the requested review of the sentence that has acquitted her is opened. Meanwhile, his attorney had to flee Pakistan due to death threats and is located in a secret location. The husband of Asia and his children, in turn, are hidden in a secret location and from that secret location they made an appeal to the Italian Government to finally give hospitality, safe conduct and possibility of salvation to this young woman and her family. We know that Minister Salvini and Minister Fontana are working under track, with all the delicacy of the case, to resolve this international affair and we want to guarantee our full support for the work of these two Ministers of our Government. In the same way, however, we consider it essential that other institutions also give concrete signs of support to this woman, this mother and this family. First of all, I personally guarantee my support for the initiative to be held on Tuesday 13 November, from 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. in front of the Capitol, where a photograph of Asia Bibi will be exhibited. I also call for other municipalities and other institutions to develop initiatives - the best possible ones - to demonstrate in this situation all the solidarity of the Italian people. [[Applause]] We can't let things like this happen to the world. It is not possible for a woman and a family to be persecuted for their faith. In this sense, I would ask that the extraordinary Commission for the protection and promotion of the human rights of our Senate be convened as soon as possible so that appropriate attention can be paid to this issue. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u127	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I rise to inform the House of the events that have taken place in Terni in recent weeks. At the end of August, the mayor Latini ordered the killing of 44 maritime pine trees in Via Lungonera Savoia as a matter of urgency, on the basis of two reports declaring its dangerousness and especially after a maritime pine had fallen on a house, luckily without victims. All in accordance with the rules and in order to protect that security which has unfortunately been called to this House on several occasions. Well, yesterday the forest carabinieri seized the cards in the municipality on the basis of an exhibit. Let us be clear, we believe this to be a due act, there is always the utmost respect for the action of the Forces of Order. What I would like to stigmatize is that the continuous call for prevention that all political forces have made in this House should lead to consistent institutional and political behaviour. The serious thing is that an intervention aimed at ensuring the safety of citizens and their safety is exploited by oppositions, in this case in Terni, and that the security of citizens is made a topic of political struggle. If we call for preventive measures in this House, it would be appropriate for everyone outside the House to behave in the same way. Personally, therefore, and I am also sure on behalf of the entire League Group, I wish to express my full closeness to the mayor of Terni Latini for his work, because we are sure that the responsibility that administrators take, even in the first person, is often the first defense for communities and citizens also in the face of the risks that come from natural disasters. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u130	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, over the last few days we have all been touched by what has been proposed by the various media and, above all, the images have spoken. Who comes from Veneto, who comes from Sicily, we have had to see how our territory has, unfortunately, become a place of death as well as a place of burial. This, however, is even more dramatically true for the territory from which I come, Calabria, because it boasts an altitude among the highest in Italy (this is a figure that few remember) and therefore also has the largest number of water basins recorded by the Military Geographical Institute. This means that when it rains, and when it rains abundantly due to climate change, events are repeated that are increasingly worrying. What should a sound policy do? I have been taught - and I humbly repeat - what politics's job is to prevent rather than cure. We Calabrians have, as well as about 1,400 water basins recorded by the Military Geographical Institute, also an extraordinary commissioner delegate for the implementation of hydrogeological risk mitigation interventions. It is a beautiful, important and high sounding definition to mean that the governor of the Calabria Region, namely Mario Oliverio, has the responsibility to indicate the agency - which can be a local authority, a municipality, a province, the same Region, a reclamation consortium - that will have the responsibility, especially criminal, to start the cleaning works necessary to prevent floods, floods and everything else. In recent days, especially on the Ionian side - alas already hit on several occasions in the recent past - in the area north of Catanzaro, but also in Crotone and in the province of Cosenza, there have been episodes that, luckily for us, have not turned into tragedy. The invitation from this House is addressed to all those authorities that are politically responsible and that, then, we would not want to respond criminally for omissions. There is no more serious thing, in fact, than knowing what should be done without doing so. I address myself here to those who must, therefore also to the actuator subject (because, in addition to the commissioner, we also have the actuator subject, the engineer Zinno, a mythical figure in the Calabria Region), so that what has to be done must be done. We must not repeat the tragedies that we have recently experienced in Veneto, Liguria or Sicily. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u133	IORI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of the National Network of Cancer Registers is a very important measure for the people of our country. When a diagnosis of cancer suddenly breaks into a person's life, his whole world, which until a moment before flowed into everyday life, is altered and upset. Suddenly the lives of time are changed, projects are interrupted, relationships are transformed with people, with family, with friends, with work. Everything takes on a different perspective. The perception of precariousness of existence is heightened; feelings of dismay or anger dominate the days, accompanied by questions, disappointments, hopes, despair and the anxieties of a physical and emotional Calvary involve both the sick person and all the people who are close to her. Today we have been called upon to approve a measure that touches precisely the fragility of our existence and that calls into question many aspects, up to the most radical ones of the border between life and death. Every year, unfortunately, there are about 370,000 people who suffer from cancer and every year 180,000 of them are unable to overcome the battle against incurable evil. But today we want to give concreteness to the word "hope", a new concreteness to the words "prevention", "possibility", "future", because the number of those who win the battle against these oncology diseases must increase, as well as the quality of life. Even more must be done to increase the number of those who, thanks to prevention, can avoid this dramatic experience. The epidemiological detection activities on the population, widely cited in the debate, are the basis of any organisation of public health systems. It is, in fact, quite clear that the health response cannot in any way ignore the detailed knowledge of the incidence and prevalence of individual diseases, also complemented by mortality and survival indices in relation to geographical areas, genetic, environmental and behavioral factors, for the purpose of the appropriateness of primary and secondary prevention interventions. This measure is the conclusion of a long iter, begun in the last legislature, but it is also the beginning of a new season to know the state of health of the territories of our country; a season started by the Airtum, the Italian Association cancer registers, which however has known too many heterogeneity and has not seen born in all the Regions of our country an instrument so important, that instead from now it will have to increase our health security. The creation of a systematic data collection tool helps to improve prevention, as well as information campaigns help to change the lifestyles of individuals and the environmental quality of workplaces, especially in the most at risk situations. This instrument will be an advantage for all citizens, a useful device for the health service, will stabilise prevention interventions and make the taking of the patient's office more early, more competent and more humane, because in this area the path of medical science must go hand in hand with its humanization. It has been stated today that the right to health is the supreme good for every citizen. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Morra and Ostellari.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u134	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-55.ana.u135	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday, November 8, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 14.42 a.m.
