ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u3	We call for the voting of today's sitting to be carried out simultaneously by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u4	As you are not the Holding Company, Senator Wolf, you need to verify your support for this request. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u5	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 435.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u6	Mr President, a small premise: for a simple refuso, in paragraph 3 of amendment 1.0.500, at the last period, the words "together with the permit in sanatoria" are to be understood as "together with the certified indication of the beginning of activities in sanatoria." It is obviously a material refuso, being of participations subject to certified signalling of beginning activity (SCIA). As far as the opinion on amendment 1.0,500 is concerned, we have already discussed it extensively in the Commission and in Parliament over the past few days. It is this amendment which, as rapporteur, I promised to try to bring to this House and which introduces simplifications in relation to the small discrepancies in buildings affected by earthquake damage and which currently block much of the reconstructions. We refer to interventions up to extraordinary maintenance with structural importance: therefore, the procedures are merged to the demand for contribution, there is a simplification compared to the legislation regarding seismic authorization and, of course, in case of landscape constraint, there is the subjectability to environmental compliance, with simplified procedure. This is a first step towards solving a problem that has been pointed out by many mayors, many local administrators and citizens. In this way we want to look for the right solution that the President of the Abruzzo Region spoke about in the previous sessions. We believe that, through this instrument, finally reconstruction can start faster. So, of course, the opinion on this amendment is in favour. Mr President, I can also express my opinion on sub-amendments 1.0.500/1, 1.0.500/2 and 1.0.500/3.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u7	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u8	Patuanelli, rapporteur. On all three sub-amendments, the opinion is against and I would like to motivate it. With regard to sub-amendment 1.0.500/1, at the first signature of Senator Modena, we would like to be able to approve it, because it slightly widens the mesh of the intervention, but on this the opposing views of the ministries involved have been clear. With regard to sub-amendment 1.0.500/2, tabled by Senator Verducci, the proposal to delete point (a), after the words "Article 22 (1) ", means opening up to restructuring and conservative consolidation, but also on this point the opinion of the Ministries is opposed. With regard to the threshold of tolerance with respect to differences not considered to be such with regard to the landscape constraint, our initial proposal was also aimed at bringing this threshold to 5%, but also on this - unfortunately - we received a contrary opinion from the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism (MIBACT). That is why the opinion on the three amendments is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u9	I would remind you that we are also considering Amendments 1.0.56, 01.23 and 01.58, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion against them, and then Amendments 1.0.113, identical to Amendments 1.0.114 and 1.119, and 1.0.116, identical to Amendments 1.0.117 and 1.0.118, on which I believe an opinion had also been taken against them. Patuanelli, rapporteur. Mr President, I confirm the opposite view.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u10	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u11	Let us turn to amendment 1.0,500 (correct text)/1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u12	We are asking for the vote and I would like to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u14	MODENA (FI-BP). Mr President, we insist on the vote on amendment 1.0.500 (correct text)/1 because it is at the heart of the problem of the fact that reconstruction is blocked: we did not say so, but most of the audit bodies in the Commission. The solution that has been found with the amendment tabled by the rapporteur is totally inadequate, because it does not allow any real reconstruction, nor, above all, does it allow applications to be submitted. Nor do we agree that there is no financial cover, because obviously the problem can be solved when the criteria are changed. We therefore insist on the vote on the amendment. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u15	Pending the expiry of the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure, I shall suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.48 a.m. and resumed at 10.03.) I beg colleagues to get to their seats. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.500 (correct text)/1, tabled by Senator Modena and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 1.0,500 (correct text)/2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u18	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, I rise on sub-amendments 1.0,500 (correct text)/2 and 1.0,500 (correct text)/3, which refer to amendment 1.0,500 (correct text), tabled by the rapporteur last night. The subject we have been discussing here has been very much stressed and concerns a problem which has been widely recognised in the course of work and recently, in recent weeks. I am referring to the small differences of the building and urban type that are very widespread, often not eliminated due to the lack of municipal urban planning plans, and that have nothing to do with, at least with regard to the type to which we of the Democratic Party refer, with speculative intent or even worse hypotheses. These are, therefore, small discrepancies on which we have all said that action is needed. I also want to say that there has been a preparatory work that the extraordinary Commissioner for Reconstruction De Micheli has done with all the parliamentary groups, in view of the measure. This theme did not enter the Decree-Law of 29 May 2018, n. 55, because the Government, which was resigned, did not have the necessary political authority to do so. This is, however, an issue that we absolutely must address. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the amendment tabled by the rapporteur, although we believe that it is an entirely partial and too limited response. That is why the two sub-amendments have been tabled. We hope, however, that during the examination in the House of Members all the parliamentary groups will achieve a stronger and wider result, but shared by all, on this issue, which is decisive, otherwise the process of reconstruction will not be completed and more time will be wasted. I repeat, therefore, that we will vote for the rapporteur's amendment, which is, in any case, a step forward, although it is still insufficient. We also withdraw our amending proposals in order to arrive at a solution that is shared by everyone, because this issue belongs to everyone. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u21	Mr Castelli, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. Mr President, we note the withdrawal of the amending proposals. I would like to thank the political parties who have made it possible to reach this amendment by the rapporteur, because the work carried out by the Commission has had precisely this objective. I repeat that we take note of the withdrawal and thank you. If the President permits me, I would like to take this opportunity to add a comment on what will be voted on immediately after the rapporteur's amendment on the famous de minimis issue. On this the government has stopped (the reason for which the amending proposals had been put aside), conscious of a very strong will on the part of this branch of Parliament. The reason why the Government has called for the withdrawal of amendments on the de minimis issue lies in the fact that the State Aid Commissioner has asked companies to provide information on the certification of aid (i.e. whether these were legitimate or not). The certification will have to reach the Commissioner during the period from 21 to 27 July. In those days you will take note of the legitimate ones and, therefore, there will be no problem for the companies involved in the earthquake. The Government intends to inform this branch of Parliament that it is committed to taking all necessary steps to put companies back in place, which, on the other hand, from the analysis on the table of the Commissioner for State aid, will result that they have received unlegal state aid. Therefore, the commitment of the Government is to arrive as soon as possible, after this certification, to be able to refocus the part of companies that have objectively had a damage. That is the commitment I want to make to this branch of Parliament today. I would like to thank my fellow Members who have withdrawn the amending proposals. I would remind you that the amendment adopted by the Commission on the extension of the time limits for comments is the result of an important political choice. On the other hand, the agenda that is likely to be put to the attention of this House will concern the commitment to interrogate with Brussels on this very important issue, on which - I repeat - a dialogue with the European institution must be resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u24	Mr Quagliarello (FI-BP). Mr President, I am speaking on the Government's statements. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, the government made a comment on the withdrawal. You have the title to speak and say what you want. Mr Quagliarello (FI-BP). Mr President, you teach me that the Government's statements are reopening the debate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I do not consider them to be declarations, but only a statement of the withdrawal of Senator Verducci's amendments. Mr Quagliarello (FI-BP). The first part of the speech is yes, Mr President; the second part is not: the second part is about de minimis and communications have been made. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Quagliariello, Forza Italia is already under three minutes, so I shouldn't even let her talk. I'll let her talk anyway. We're not arguing about minutals. Mr Quagliarello (FI-BP). Thank you, Mr President; you will allow me not to agree with your interpretation, but I thank you anyway, because it is you who decides in this case. It seems to me quite frankly that the statements made should be made by the Government. I believe - and I think we are all aware of this here - that in a globalised world, what matters is the conditions of context. In other words, the money goes where there are conditions for these to yield. The government should realize that those facilities were recognized because in L'Aquila there were rubble, first of all moral and then economic. There were no roads, there were terrible working conditions. How do you view those as non-legal state aid? The government should make it clear that these reductions are not State aid. And again, undersecretary Castelli. I want to be a moderate follower of the President of the Count Council, of the Head of Government of which you are a member, who said yesterday that it is not possible to think of achieving balance in the budget simply by making cuts, but it is necessary to develop the economy. I ask you, then: if the return of this money will result in the exit from the market of a number of companies that miraculously managed to stay in it, if it will lead to unemployment, will this be a way of applying what you said yesterday or will it be a way of contradicting it? Finally - the last and most important point - Europe has never said and written that the de minimis decision is State aid. The letter sent to Mayor Biondi says something different, so the opinion you expressed frankly is not relevant. Europe says that the interpretation of de minimis is a problem for your Government. In other words, if there is insurance to solve the problem with due insights within the time of this decree-law - but you have to solve it within you, not shielding yourself behind Europe, which in this case has nothing to do with it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] - because we are reasonable people and believe that the interests of the Eagle are more important than any political speculation, we are willing to have access to any solution. But on condition that there is a clear commitment: that the problem be resolved within the time of this decree-law. The two months alone are not enough, also because one will be the month of August and therefore will simply make the wound more purulent. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u25	Amendments 1.0,500 (correct text)/2 and 1.0,500 (correct text)/3 are withdrawn. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.0,500 (correct text), tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.0.56, 01.23 and 1.0.58 are precluded. We shall proceed with the votes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u28	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, I am speaking in fact to make an explanation of vote on Amendment 1.0.116, signed by me and Senator D'Alfonso, which refers to the subject that was also addressed by the Undersecretary just now. It is a very important subject, as my colleague Mr Quagliariello said, because it concerns a large number of companies in L'Aquila. If we do not intervene - we must do so as soon as possible; we must do so within the time limits allowed by this decree - companies will be forced to pay very high penalties which will force many of them to close. President-in-Office of the Council. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is already a forced process. We absolutely must intervene. We voted on the extension approved in the special committee, but we hope that we can do more in this House. That is why we maintain this amendment. Among other things, the competent European Commissioner has already made a clear statement on the substance of this matter, giving reason to Italian and eagle companies. We think, therefore, that never, as on this occasion, must we assert our voice, the voice of this Parliament also towards the European Union, especially when a European Commissioner is right. I see no reason not to go on. I take note of the statements made by the Undersecretary, which show, however, that we would certainly go beyond 29 July, beyond the deadline for the conversion of the decree. That is why we ask to move forward and this will also help the work that will be done in the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u31	Marsilio (FdI). Mr President, I am speaking as a signatory to amendment 1.0.114, to which the Government has given opinions, clarifications and some insights. As Mr Quagliariello has done, I intend to explain our position with regard to this amendment. We have also given the willingness - as Senator Quagliariello anticipated earlier - to identify by mutual agreement a possible transition. Of course, if there is an intention to put the amendment to the vote we, and on the substance, will vote in favour of our amendment and, therefore, it remains at that point in the debate. Mr Undersecretary, as much as I appreciated the effort of dialogue and understanding, I believe that the attempt to get the tooth out of the Ministry to obtain documents and papers that speak more clearly of any possible reasons has been unfruitful. It is a responsibility that not only concerns the Government in office for a few days, because even the Government in office previously was not able to respond to a wrong and hostile initiative of Europe and to which, in the offices of the relevant ministries, there was too much surrender. The response given to the Budget Committee is also an apodittical statement of the assessments. For example, it is said that there is a textual opposite and an express refusal of the European Commission to the fact that de minimis would be applicable in the 2011 time frame, i.e. at EUR 500 000, and that the subordinate amendment, the authentic interpretation rule, which we could adopt and which we submitted as a subordinate to the de minimis amendment, would also be denied in the presence of this textual fact. But we don't have any textual data. This textual data, which was also represented to the local administrations, that is to say to the mayor of L'Aquila and to the government of the Abruzzo Region, has always been reported verbally. I call on the Undersecretary from this point of view to take further consideration during the following days. Inevitably the question will be dragged, and to get out of the Ministry also these presumed and self-declared textual data, according to which Europe has already responded negatively to Italy on the fact that the temporal framework to be applied is that of the entry into force of the norm and not of its effect in terms of effectiveness. On the other hand, we support the opposite and for these reasons, in the presence of a vote, we shall vote in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u34	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, as you know, we have worked very hard in the Commission on this point and I agree with the speech you made two days ago - I think - Senator Quagliariello. Now, if we go to the vote on this point, contrary to the overall behaviour we have held as members of the Mixed-LEU Group, in relation to and consistent with the Commission's statements on a commitment we had made, we will vote on these amendments. I'm trying to explain myself. Here in this House, the government must make a definitive commitment, by July, to resolve this problem and the main road is the one that the previous colleague said to me, namely to bring back the threshold of EUR 500 000, which is the de minimis, established then, of the European Union and not decided by us. This would solve the problem, so much so that I had also suggested a correction of the amendment just to say that. In any case, if there were a commitment of the Executive and the entire Assembly were convinced, in the face of this commitment of the Government, not to go to the vote, then we would all be on the commitment of the Government. Otherwise, if we vote, we will vote on these amendments. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u35	I would like to ask for the attention of the authors of the three identical amendments 1.0.113, 1.0.114 and 1.119. It seems to me that the debate has shown that although there is an opinion against it, there is no disagreement on the principle of the government. Would it be possible to change these three identical amendments into an agenda? Senator Quagliariello, would you be available?
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u36	Mr President, I would ask the Government, also on the basis of what Senator Errani has just said, to clarify his statements. While there is a clear commitment on the part of the Government, as you clearly wish, I believe that there would be the availability of the whole House. But the commitment must be unequivocal and the Government must not even pronounce - if I can give a council, mine is not a threat - the expression 'State aid', because that is exactly the point: de minimis is not State aid. In this sense there are two amendments, in addition to the three that you referred to, and then there is the amendment of Senator Marsilio, which has an interpretative nature, that is, it is intended to give the correct interpretation, so between the date on which the measure was published in the Official Journal (November 2011) and the date on which it entered into force (1 January 2012) the date on which the popular will was expressed is valid. If this interpretation is put forward, if we believe in the sovereignty of the Italian Government at all, the problem is solved. It is simply an interpretative problem, which does not even involve budgetary considerations, because we would all agree - and Europe should also take note of this - that if the interpretation is that the measure falls within the period of 2011, it is clearly worth de minimising at EUR 500 000. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u37	Senator Quagliariello, excuse me, I want a yes or a no: we are not talking about the next three amendments, 1.0.116, 1.0.117 and 1.0.118. Maybe I've been a little long-winded, without an explanation from the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u38	That's great. That's great. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.113, tabled by Senator Quagliariello and other senators, essentially identical to amendments 1.0.114, tabled by Senators Marsilio and Zaffini, and 1.119, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 1.0.116, which is identical to Amendments 1.0.117 and 1.0.118, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I would ask the authors if they insist on the vote. Marsilio (FdI). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u41	Mr Arrigoni (L-SP). Mr President, the League - as it has done in the Special Commission on urgent government acts - is willing to withdraw and transform amendment 1.0.118 into an agenda similar to that presented in that House and which - I stress - has been unanimously adopted. Someone may object to the fact that resubmitting a similar agenda may be superfluous; in fact, this agenda is essentially asking the Government for two things: to commit itself to undertaking negotiations with the European institutions, in particular with the Commission, on the infringement procedure which has been initiated; and, in the more part of these talks, to consider the possibility of extending the deadline for submitting observations, to date set at 22 July, by a further sixty days (two months). In fact, on this second subject, the House approved yesterday an amendment by the rapporteur, Mr Patuanelli, on 1.0.2,000, which requested - and obtained - a two-month extension of the submission of observations. Given, however, that the conversion of the decree could come close to the date of July 22, maybe one or two days before or two or three days later, I think it is appropriate that the Government, if it were to issue in the next hours and in the next days a decree to extend the terms, undertakes to resume this rule and to insert it in that text. The text is identical to the one adopted and here I have a copy, which I leave to the record: the appeal I make to the Government is to give a favourable opinion and what I address to the whole Assembly is to unanimously support this agenda, which would become a further constraint for the Government in relation to the commitments already presented by the Undersecretary Castelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u42	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u43	The opinion on the agenda is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u44	My opinion is in agreement.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u45	At this point, before we proceed to the vote on the agenda, I ask Senator Verducci and Senator Marsilio whether they want to sign it and withdraw their amendments or whether they intend to keep them.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u46	Mr President, I would like to thank you for the reasons given earlier, namely the urgency and the expectation of the eagle companies, for the fact that Amendment 1.0.116 is to be put to the vote. Marsilio (FdI). I agree with the maintenance, Mr President, in my case of Amendment 1.0.117.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u47	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.0.118, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). It was unanimously approved, as requested by Senator Arrigoni: congratulations. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.116, tabled by Senator Verducci and other senators, identical to amendment 1.0.117, tabled by Senators Marsilio and Zaffini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u50	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the Autonomous Group will vote in favour of the measure and would like to see the House approve it quickly. It is a duty for the 600,000 people living in the areas affected by the earthquake and for a territory which, as the rapporteur said, has 138 municipalities, 340,000 homes and a social and productive fabric of great importance. We appreciated the work that all the groups have done in the special Commission. It is essential that on issues such as this there be unity of intent on the part of all political forces. In these cases there is no political color that holds; there are the institutions, in which everyone works with the utmost commitment. On the substance of the issues, Mr President, we agree with the rapporteur's need to create an interpretative guide to overcome the uncertainties and problems created by the constant production of legislation. The stratification of the rules is likely to turn into a bureaucratic obstacle for reconstruction and measures for the benefit of families and businesses. This issue is also highlighted by the Extraordinary Commissioner. During the hearings in the Special Commission, Confindustria brought a structure for a framework law on emergency management. It is an important issue, on which action will be necessary to improve the effectiveness of interventions and tackle in an organic way everything that, in the emergency, then turns into a regulatory dilemma. Let us consider the aspects related to the disposal of rubble, tax extensions, support measures for the productive fabric: all aspects that can be the subject of a framework law, from which to determine resources and types of measures, naturally depending on the specificity of situations and their seriousness. In any case, the most important element of the decree-law is the extension to 31 December of the state of emergency. In this way, the next budget law will be the safe ground for the allocation of the resources still needed for reconstruction. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that in no way should attention be lowered for those areas of Italy which have suffered such dramatic events. I therefore repeat our Group's vote in favour of the conversion of the decree-law. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u53	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as many have already pointed out during the general debate, we are faced with the greatest emergency in recent years: nine waves of magnitude greater than five, great destruction, an unprecedented territorial dimension in the history of earthquakes. Yet, these earthquakes are part of an already deeply compromised territory - perhaps this should be made more aware - on the hydrogeological level. Finding, for example, areas for temporary solutions in many municipalities was a huge problem, not only because of the constraints, but because of the drama of the hydrogeological structure. We are faced with municipalities, in which the depopulation process, before 24 August 2016, had already reached more than 50%. We are talking about territorial realities that, from the point of view of the administrative structure, often have municipal secretaries "overtaking" two municipalities, if not four. Many municipalities have the mayor, an urban vigilante and, when it's okay, the secretary to jump and a technician. I have seen, in my experience, Municipalities in which there has been no competition for about eight years for the structural conditions of those Municipalities, with consequences: in eight years the rules on races have changed radically. If we then go to see the structural weakness of services, we realize that in those areas one of the most modern infrastructure is perhaps the Salaria, which built the Romans. All this has put in really difficult conditions the process of emergency management first and then reconstruction. It will be good to have this awareness, as we have also seen in the Commission's work. I thank the rapporteur here and thank all the groups. We did a good job in my opinion. That is why we shall vote in favour of this measure. You have seen that our behaviour has been consistent with the commitments and the work done in the Commission; but it is good to have this awareness. Moreover, the amendment we have just voted on on small discrepancies or small abuses - we must not be afraid of words - shows us how complicated this is. My colleagues in the special committee know that we had found a solution together, which we considered to be positive. However, the ministries' apparatus told us no. This is a well-known path: it is much easier to make announcements or criticisms; the process of real standards building is more complex. I say this not in a polemical sense, as I think it is quite understandable, but to explain what level of difficulty you are in. I have already said that we will vote for this measure firmly and appreciating the work done, even the work of the Government, despite the fact that the Government has told us no, but taking on commitments, which I will then try to sum up, on a number of issues. I would, however, like to take advantage of this in response to a request from the rapporteur and some of the requests that have also emerged from some speeches, especially from my fellow Senators of the Movimento 5 Stars. The first is the rapporteur's. The rapporteur wondered whether it was possible to build a general measure on the subject of major emergencies and major disasters. I fully agree. We should do this; it is essential to do so. Aware of the fact that every earthquake has its own dynamics: one thing is an earthquake that happens in the plain and one thing is the earthquake of Central Italy, which takes place in a difficult and already compromised territory. However, a number of issues need to be addressed. So I want to tell the Members who have raised this issue. I think we should start from the analysis, without political exploitation, of the experiences of earthquakes that lie behind us: from Friuli, Marche and Umbria, L'Aquila, Emilia and now Central Italy. Let's look at these experiences, let's evaluate them because, beyond what we say in the interventions, the real things are seen. Let us evaluate them to try to do better, not to give ourselves responsibilities. Everyone takes on their responsibilities. I don't know if I can explain why we're dealing with complex problems. First, we need to define what is "emergency" and what is "reconstruction." Let's define, in order to avoid that, in a commuting way, we move from a Civil Protection that intervenes in an emergency key for the celebrations of the anniversary of the Unity of Italy, to arrive, commuting, to a Civil Protection that, in emergency with the earthquake of Emilia, after law n. 100 of 2012, approved just two days before, could only remove the wounded from under the rubble and could not do the rest. Clearly, this commuting is not working and the right balance must be found. Secondly, it is necessary to clarify once and for all what citizens are entitled to and what they are not entitled to. The third point I want to highlight is equally important: where emergency or reconstruction rules are issued, the whole institutional system must refer to them and there can be no interpretation mechanism. To understand us, since I do not want to escape the problem, I quote what happened in Norcia, already mentioned, about a temporary structure, donated and aimed at protecting against the risk of further earthquakes, of strategic estate. There cannot be a different interpretation, but this cannot be left in the hands - let us say this - to the good spirit of this or that part of the State: it must find instead a regulatory response. Fourthly, some senators have rightly wondered how it is possible that we are still in emergency and six months in six months, or year after year, to take action and be sent back. A form must be found to build coordination between financial and budgetary regulations and the political choice of interventions that the State wants to make. In fact, it cannot be written into a budget rule until the emergency is exhausted, because it is clear that the problem will not be solved. So, there's a great and interesting job to do, but without the awareness of a distinction between reconstruction and emergency, we're not going anywhere. With regard to the reconstruction facility, I would like to point out, honestly, that previous governments have made important choices. For example, this is the first earthquake in which the second house is financed and it is right, because otherwise there would be no reconstruction, given the characteristics of the second houses in the places involved. This is a new choice, which cannot be reproduced in all territories, because it is clear that if it were applied in a large city it would not stand. We therefore need flexibility and intelligence. Secondly... [[Recalls of the President]] Let me conclude, Mr President, just ask you for a moment. The matter... BELLANOVA (PD). The government representative isn't listening. Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). I do what I can. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Mr. Undersecretary, don't let the senator disturb you. Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). For this earthquake for the first time it has been established that it is not rebuilt without the third level microzonation. Just turn around in those areas to see that in the same street the houses have collapsed only on one side. It is, therefore, crucial. Thirdly, there is a tax credit that ensures reconstruction. Not every year private individuals will have to apply for refinancing, because the mechanism is secured. These are important issues. On prevention I make a simple proposal to the government: ten-year plan, work on bonuses and a share of investment in the state budget devoted every year to hydrogeological safety and seismicity. Otherwise you don't go anywhere and this is the emergency emergency. Mr Undersecretary - as you have seen - we have followed very closely the commitments made by the Government. We have concrete expectations of other governments. Staff, Commissariat, L'Aquila, Emilia, interventions on taxation: on these issues we need clear answers. Our vote is in favour of the work done, for the attention of the Government, which, in a spirit of change, must act and give real answers. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, M5S and L-SP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u56	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I begin my speech by immediately declaring the Group's abstention vote. This is a positive abstention, in the sense that we reserve the right to verify what the Government, by virtue of the greatest time available, will be able to obtain during the examination of the provision in the Chamber, and then hopefully express ourselves in a more constructive way in its second reading. Mr President, at first we did not share the method used that we might call opportunistic. There was a decree-law, a so-called decree of the outgoing Gentiloni Government. Silveri dated 29 May; a late measure also on the date of issue, because it aimed to obtain an extension of the departure of the reimbursements of the facilities; extension, decreed on 29 May, which presupposed - as it perfectly happened - that on 27 May (i.e. two days before) numerous administrations of the State had already started the recovery in payrolls such as those of prison police officers. In essence, President, it makes the Democratic Party smile as a whole when scolded, denounced urgencies and argued about just, real, truthful events; when it states that the Gentilon Government Silveri couldn't do better because in the last few days he was unrepresentative, because I remember all the time he had before. The situation - as I say from Umbria - causes very serious delays, beyond the game of the political parties that we obviously understand, and there would be no more. However, in the face of issues such as those we are discussing, which have very little political, ideological and ideal content, we must adopt a truly different and more free and serene approach. A long and disorienting regulation has been produced, which has led to a series of very serious malfunctions and delays. Remedying this legislation with a decree - as we have defined it - which dealt entirely with other issues and which, compared to the major themes of reconstruction, affected only one hundredth - although important, of course - and bringing within it the whole mass of problems related to reconstruction was a method that I personally and as a Group we did not initially share. We would certainly have preferred the method, more linear and more just, to start immediately with a decree-law of the Government, brought to the Assembly, that would deal with the problems from the point of view of the Government itself. This would certainly have avoided a gigantic work of the rapporteur, whom I thank once again, and would have given us a better chance to work with greater precision and serenity. The spirit of the work done was basically the right one, as we have said several times in this House: it was really the right spirit to deal with the big problems. Some small situations have also been resolved in part, as someone has said in his speech: I am referring to the small discrepancies (thanks to the rapporteur's amendment yesterday), the double discrepancy, the journalistic affair defined by Grandma Peppina, and so on. But what I think is most interesting and on which I want to concentrate is to have breathed, in the course of my work first in the Special Commission, then in the Assembly and finally in the Budget Committee (I am also referring to the behaviour of the Government and the Undersecretary Castelli) a great awareness, which is what I intend to support in our largely positive attitude, albeit still doubtful: the great awareness of the serious problems that weigh on those territories and on the people who live in them. With regard to this, I would like to thank my colleagues, on behalf of myself and my group, but above all on behalf of the earthquake victims. I am Umbrian, I am of spoletina origin, I know the Valnerina palm in palm and I can assure you that in that reality there are serious problems to which you must quickly put your hand. The decree-law under consideration - and that is why we will stop abstaining, albeit positive - unfortunately leaves too many things unfinished. It leaves the lot of cover and resources in suspense; several times undersecretary Castelli, in his speeches, said that the Commissioner's fund is over, in the sense that there are no more resources. So we must quickly restore resources, because reconstruction, beyond the process of the mechanism perfectly illustrated by Senator Errani, needs resources, for example staff. We have a very dangerous bottleneck in the special offices for reconstruction, in the regional USRs, caused by a shortage of staff, by the fact that there are no people. If, in a few days, the reconstruction will start again - and probably will also start again thanks to the positive things of this decree-law - it will stop immediately, because in the regional offices there are no people working there. The practices will be piled up over the desks and will remain there; they will create back walls that citizens will continue to solicit. We will be faced with a large number of problems caused by delays in practices. The second issue that the measure leaves unfinished is the lack of legislation. We have all denounced that, in the path of reconstruction (it was a very particular earthquake, and it is useless that we are telling it again) on four regions each has ruled differently. There are situations, relating to this regulatory disparity, which create serious problems in reconstruction, which should be addressed and dealt with quickly and immediately. A further story that remains in the air is represented by too many suspended. Colleagues, we have heard in the Commission several times - I would say hundreds - the Government says it has to talk again. If we had to talk about it again, we could - as I said at the beginning - draw up a decree-law, so the government would have put a firm point on what it intended and could do, on its means and from there we would have started. Beyond the appreciation of the good will and the awareness on the part of all of us of having brought out the situation of the crater, however, remains the bitter in the mouth. In fact, despite having faced real and concrete problems and shared the need to find solutions and also ways of solution, it has been blocked. In front of the wall of the roofs; in front of the wall of the Ministries who explain - but they do not explain - and the apodittic relations and the statements that we cannot define; in front of all this, a decree-law of the Government we would have frankly liked it, because it would have had to deal with all this before coming to the Chamber and to the Commission. Too many points are suspended, too many promises: we are seriously concerned about this. In particular, I refer to the story of the Eagle, on which I do not dwell, having already addressed it and well the Senators Quagliariello, Errani and Marsilio. We do not turn around: we remain strongly concerned both about the risk of further infringement compared to the path illustrated by the Undersecretary Castelli, and for the times, because frankly, if it was a thousand extensions, we do not understand why it arrives in July. I mean, we're waiting to understand and see. I shall conclude, Mr President. There are two issues to be clarified. The first is the government's position on the Commissioner's structure. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, we have extended the emergency and extended the time frame, but we have left the matter of the police structure unanswered. Each of us has his own ideas about this and we have no time and no time to explain them here. Clarifying, however, what the government's position on the commissioner's structure is absolutely essential to know how to proceed. The second issue is the framework law on natural disasters. Senator Errani has spoken about this. We have all said this in the Commission and the hearings have clarified the need for a framework law on natural disasters. We are very much in favour of it. We are already making ourselves available to promote it. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u59	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, members of the Government, rapporteur, colleagues, the Democratic Party will vote for this measure (it is the last act of the Government Gentiloni Silveri, which we have prepared and strongly wanted) because it is necessary (and it is necessary for the affected populations) and has two fundamental reasons: do not make all the social protections for the citizens that we have built in recent months disappear; overcome the obstacles to the reconstruction process that have emerged in progress only recently. We will vote for it, but we would have wanted it to be different, just as we thought it would have been, if our government had not been resigned. Our amendments, which were largely rejected, drew a more courageous, more comprehensive, more effective text, particularly for work and business. Mr President, the subject of this decree-law is not the same as the others. The word "earthquake" is difficult even to pronounce without feeling a thick. I am thinking of strength, dignity, the example of a population repeatedly hit by an unprecedented seismic event. Thousands of shocks still continue and have split the backbone of Italy: the central Apennines, the Sibillini mountains, what Leopardi called the blue mountains; and then the belt between L'Aquila and Rieti, a piece of mountains and hills that unites the Marches, Umbria, Lazio, Abruzzo, and communities of values that with San Benedetto were the propulsive center of the first social and cultural construction of Europe; inestimable territories, which we cannot lose; beautiful and difficult territories that have long lived an economic, structural and social crisis that, at the beginning of the earthquake, put at risk of abandonment and desertification, in particular to the detriment of younger generations. Then there is nothing more urgent than this decree-law, because nothing is more urgent than the expectations and needs of those who fight to get back up. The stakes are our destiny, the fate of a vital part of the country. We in the Democratic Party know that. We are those who, more than anyone else, have done with the utmost commitment, determination and awareness, which many in this House lack. We were in the government and we never stole, at any time, with Matteo Renzi, Paolo Gentiloni, Vasco Errani, Paola De Micheli and many others. We have always acted in a united spirit, seeking the cohesion of all political forces and the involvement of local self-governments and social actors, putting in place an advanced model that collects the best practices of recent earthquakes, with the strategic and unavoidable objective of rebuilding all the existing urban and community fabric, with total coverage of expenditure. Colleagues, the resources we have allocated and that you - the majority and the new Government - will have the task of managing and not squandering are the largest in history: over 13 billion euros, of which almost 10 for private and public reconstruction. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It was a hard work, in continuous evolution, certainly also made of errors, criticality, rigidity and an initial excessive centralization. But, in the face of the problems, we have been able to question the norms and modify the things that did not work, in particular when the escalation of the earthquake radically changed its nature, exponentially widening the crater, made above all of small hill towns and hills, with many situations of hydrogeological failure. Our first commitment was to protect people, shelter them and shield them from economic difficulties. This is the cornerstone of all our work for the last two years, of which we are proud. We can say loudly that no one has been left alone, with the integration of employees' income; support for businesses, self-employed workers, artisans and VAT consignments; the suspension of the payment of loans and bills; contributions and tax payments; the introduction of the heavy pay envelope; the exemption fund for workers of crater enterprises; the contribution of self-employment, which was a real measure of welfare to guarantee individuals and, above all, families and their cohesion. No one - I repeat, no one - can deny that ever before there had been this level of support for the economic needs of the population and the resumption of productive activities. These measures are linked together, which make up a project, a vision, an idea of society and an idea of development. If today the crater is alive - and it is - it is thanks to these instruments. Mr President, I have heard speeches in this House laughing at what has been done over the years and making liquidation jokes. Mr President, I find them shameful. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Those who say that there has been a terrible management of the earthquake lie knowing to lie. [[Applause from the PD Group]] He has no idea what happened, what 600,000 people were affected and over 50,000 displaced people were involved. Yet, in all these months - and still now - the jackals have not stopped, exploiting difficulties and sowing distrust, weeds, polemics and poisons, fed to art on social networks by those who in the crater probably never set foot. We are proud of what has been done and we will multiply our commitment from the opposition, watching with the utmost determination that the indispensable work done in a thousand difficulties in recent years will not be frustrated. We will ensure that this government does not make us go back, not turn your back on the affected territories and populations. We are concerned, President; we are concerned because in the so-called contract - it is nothing but a power pact between Salvini and Di Maio - there is not one in 18,000 words about earthquake and reconstruction. Out of 18,000 not a word! [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is very serious. Tell President Conte - who is not here today - that it is not enough to show himself a few hours, in haste and fury, in the earthquake zones, if you do not have an idea of what to do. We are concerned, because most of our proposals, in order to continue to support incomes, workers, citizens, businesses, mayors, especially those of small municipalities, you said no. You say you don't have money for the earthquake victims, for those in need, and you want to allocate 50 billion euros for the flat tax, the shame tax, which takes away from the poor to give to the rich. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Nice change, congratulations! You said no to postpone the suspended payments up to 120 installments; no to the 40% reduction in the amount to be returned; no to the extension of the one-off extension of EUR 5,000 for professionals and VAT consignments; no to the extension of the urban free zone for businesses; all measures included by us and which you are now taking away. You said no to the destination of 4% of the total fund for reconstruction to the economic and social development of the municipalities of the earthquake; no to the increase of resources for civil service, for the young people of the crater; no to everything concerning human resources, personnel, even local police. Stop working relationships that are indispensable for the needs of the earthquake areas. I am not against the PD: I am against real demands, heard, loudly demanded by the social, economic and professional forces. You said no, and yet in the election campaign you promised these things. You took the vows and ran away. [[Applause from the PD Group]] But we're here. There is a yes, Mr President, of which we are particularly proud, for which we in the PD have fought first and on which then - and we are pleased - everyone has come together: a yes that gives certainty to more than 500 workers in the Whirlpool of Communanza and their families; a strategic company for the future manufacturing of those territories, which is the driving force behind a large number of workers. An amendment brings this dispute to Parliament and is a first victory. Now it will be up to the Government to demand an industrial relaunch of the production site, which today is heavily at risk. There is a risk of 131 redundancies, a dispute that is not local in nature, Mr President, but which is emblematic of what we mean by the challenge of reconstruction. It will not suffice, in fact, to rebuild only the walls; they need a specific design, a strategic relaunch, well beyond the extension of the state of emergency. We call for investments, including Europeans, outside the Stability Pact, for a new model of development of the Apennines, for a health and training welfare ad hoc for those areas, for their agro-food, livestock and craft districts, which in a single plan can multiply their potential. Mr President, we need to tie up in a single present and future dispute, because there is no one without the other. For someone the earthquake is a distant event; not for us. For someone they are faded images; not for us. For us it is and will be a national issue straight away and we will always make it stand. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u62	Mr Arrigoni (L-SP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, almost two years after the start of the seismic events that hit Central Italy, with 299 deaths and over 50,000 people assisted, the emergency has not ended, while reconstruction is still on the stake. Too many problems have arisen, especially those of a procedural nature. The League had said it immediately: it is wrong to take a law, that of the earthquake of Emilia, that had already then demonstrated its limits with 500 ordinances, and replicate it in a totally different territory. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] Too many and complex regulations, too many ordinances (here too 59), often in contradiction; so many uncertainties that slow down reconstruction and suffer are the citizens, thousands of whom, uprooted, were forced to move to distant places, waiting for the SAE, promised by Renzi in six months, but which have suffered unacceptable delays and costs. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] Moreover, while 10 percent still remain to be delivered, many SAEs have experienced problems. The only certainty is that SAEs have been a business for cooperatives. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] Businesses are also suffering. Those who have courageously maintained their activities are experiencing a sharp decline in turnover due to the depopulation of residents and the reduction of tourism. They make me smile at my colleagues in the Democratic Party when in their speeches in the Chamber and in the press, accusing this majority, they shirk of disarming minimalism and a small amount of speeches. But, excuse me: is it known to you that before this decree-law the last two Governments of Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri for this earthquake intervened with eight successive measures? [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] This decree-law was announced as a full-bodied provision. Instead, the Executive Gentiloni Silveri has issued a mini decree, a decree containing only tax extensions. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] This majority, bearing in mind the needs of the affected communities, the dramas of families and businesses that have lost everything, even hope, made a responsible and courageous political choice. Considering the limited time available and a budget of the armored state, since the resources have already been allocated by you of the Democratic Party, we wanted to extend the scope of the measure. We've had an audition cycle. Then, with the amendment phase, we introduced with the contribution of all fiscal measures, but above all also included several urban rules aimed at speeding up the reconstruction. There is nothing in the provision, dear colleague Saccone di Forza Italia! There are many innovations introduced with the contribution of everyone. We've extended the state of emergency. We have extended the repayment of loans from the municipalities. We have exempted the municipalities from the obligation to achieve the objectives of separate collection. We have extended the loans for economic and private activities for the first house by two years. We have given private individuals the fees for the occupation of public spaces and areas (TOSAP) for the construction site. We have extended until 2020 the exemption of red-zone bills, which are important for businesses. We have increased the threshold of the amount of public works for the obligatory SOA, of which many local construction companies are lacking. This will limit exclusion from competitions by avoiding further failures. We have introduced the reimbursement of expenses for fire-fighting adaptation and the elimination of architectural barriers. We have expanded the unique purchasing power stations to overcome an excessive limitation for actuators. The interventions of immediate execution and presentation of the Aedes cards by professionals were extended at the end of December. We have planned the construction of tourist areas equipped for caravans and campers, for owners of second destroyed houses, fundamental for the revival of tourism and to revive these communities. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] We have planned the publication and periodic updating of the Commissioner's guidelines with procedures and requirements related to construction. For Grandma Peppina we have finally introduced an adequate standard to heal the temporary houses built without emergency permission, but necessary to address immediate housing needs. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] There are 1,300 cases similar to that of Grandma Peppina, who gave voice and dignity to other similar situations, a sanatoria but under precise conditions and it is incredible that on the point there were the MPs of the Democratic Party who gave from the charlatan to Salvini and the League, taking a credit that they do not have as the "opportunistic cubs" do. No more mystifications! [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] Mr Verducci (PD). What are you talking about? What are you talking about? MIRABELLI (PD). You rule! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Calm down! Each one, if he does not transcend, can always express his own thought. Please, Senator Arrigoni. Mr Arrigoni (L-SP). It was of the League the amendment that the PD government has transposed in the last budget law 2017, but modifying it and drastically reducing its scope, so that only Grandma Peppina and very few others, after months and producing quintals of marked cards, maybe they will succeed in obtaining the rider of the house and to heal the situation. We wanted to think about others here too. Other amendments: we have introduced a rule to allow demolition and reconstruction of houses that cannot be used by way of derogation from the road constraint. We have introduced the possibility for the dioceses to intervene on most of the 3,000 damaged churches, using faster procedures and - very important - to unlock the reconstruction of the private ones we have defined the procedures both for pending condones, and to heal the small discrepancies connected to buildings damaged by the earthquake, and much more. Have we responded to all the demands of the earthquake communities? No. Let us of course note that criticism can come from citizens, businesses, professionals and many others like the mayors, who for too long have been living in a state of abandonment, of uncertainty for the future. To them, however, we assure them that under these conditions we have done our utmost in this decree-law, putting the utmost effort. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] a commitment that does not end here today. Many measures will be introduced with the next budget law or in a dedicated measure that will deal not only with the problems of the earthquake of Central Italy, but also those still open of the earthquake of Emilia-Romagna of 2012 or those recent of August 2017 of Ischia. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] What we find unacceptable as a League, however, is that there are members of the Democratic Party who wake up from hibernation after two years and now come to lecture us,... [[Applause from the L-SP Group.]] MIRABELLI (PD). Again? Mr Verducci (PD). You said no to everything! Mr Arrigoni (L-SP). .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. [[Senator Pharaoh's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u63	Senator Pharaoh, there's chamomile at the buvette if you want. Mr Arrigoni (L-SP). Other than waiting for League and Movimento 5 Stars to prove the facts: they are the earthquake victims who have waited unnecessarily two years. You're ridiculous.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u64	[[Applause from the L-SP, M5S and FI-BP Groups]] I would like to start by thanking Commissioner De Micheli for the institutional correctness he had; the special Commission offices; the rapporteur, Stefano Patuanelli, and, representing all the members of the Commission, the acting President, Erica Rivolta, for the great amount of work he has done in just a few days. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] Gratitude in all respects we also turn to those who have been operating for two years in the affected territories: representatives of the fire department, civil protection, the Forces of Order [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] , the various voluntary organizations, volunteer professionals who have been waiting for years for the expenses incurred, mayors and municipal administrators. As a majority and as a government that the earthquake has included in the government contract, dear colleague Verducci, we will mobilize for a serious reconnaissance of all the criticalities, so that they can be overcome. We will assess the need for a framework law, a single regulatory framework that overcomes fragmentation and legislative contradictions. But above all, we will strive to implement a plan of strategic reconstruction of prevention and protection of the territory that raises socially and economically the affected areas that can also represent a factor of development of the entire country. The Lega-Salvini Premier Group will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups. The Senators of the L-SP Group stand up. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u67	MODENA (FI-BP). I have heard a few screams, Senators Arrigoni and Verducci, but I believe that this House has as its first duty to understand that there are two large lumps in the legislation that we are going to vote on. There is a logic in so many things that have happened, that I tried to synthesize with the concept that the issue has two heads: the urban game and that of resources. With regard to the first, by many of the majority, starting with my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Star Group, but also with other colleagues, I heard in the debate that the proposals made by the groups were accepted in the Commission. That is not true: the problem raised in terms of urban planning by Mr Sacconi - he did well yesterday to underline the issue, and will excuse me the Leader of the League - we did not invent it. It has been submitted to us not obscure builders, but Confcommercio, who said clearly and roundly that reconstruction does not go ahead with the problem of abuses, which cannot be healed. The Confartigianato told us exactly: reconstruction cannot start again. Finally, the technical networks of professionals have said this: reconstruction has slowed down deeply. The common sense - to which I am referring, since it is sometimes referred to in an inappropriate way - would then have wished that the question of the sanatorium of the lack of housing qualifications in the field of urban planning would have been the result with which to leave the Commission. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] It is not correct what has been said about the fact that there are problems relating to financial cover because, given the time devoted to them by the Commission, it would have been possible to think calmly about the way in which a response could be given not to the Groups which proposed amendments on the basis of what the categories said, but to the categories themselves. By the way, this issue was also raised by the Commissioner at the hearing and there is a written document on it. We tell you with great frankness that we cannot understand why it is not possible to heal abuses without building title in discrepancies, which prevents the reconstruction of territories where annexes and canopies abound (not windows, just to understand each other). This prevents the application from being submitted and, therefore, from rebuilding. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] You have to explain to me why a person, even if he has committed such an abuse, must be punished for all his life, even if he has paid taxes and worked, to the extent that he cannot submit a contribution application or rebuild his own home. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] This is not common sense: let me say this, since a colleague from my Group has been badly called into question. Then there is an issue that concerns the second lump, another thousand-headed lump related to the game of resources. In this sense, given that great publicity has been given, it seems strange to me that no one has remembered - perhaps this is what my colleague Lucidi del Movimento 5 Stars did - that the President of the Council, as the first public exit, went to the earthquake zones and said, not on Facebook but on means that I consider a little more serious (days, agencies, "Il Sole 24 Ore"): From tomorrow we will be working on the earthquake decree. If the President of the Council, on 11 June last, decides to make the first public appearance in the earthquake zones and then undertakes to work from the next day for the earthquake, then this at our examination is a decree-law that belongs, as it comes out, to this majority of government. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I don't care who introduced him, because Count said so. This majority of government has not solved - and Mr Quagliariello is right, I do not repeat it for reasons of time - the question of the return of aid, which is a responsibility of this Government. It has not resolved, because it did not want to see what was done by the center-right governments, the fiscal issue, rightly mentioned by my colleague Pagano, so it could be safely reached a reduction of the IRPEF to 70% and a installment to 120 installments, made by our Government in 2009 and not reconfirmed, of course, by the PD. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This government could easily have decided for a uniformity of earthquakes; it is useless for you to come and say that Ischia will be dealt with on an agenda, because Mr De Siano - who spoke on this point yesterday with clarity - is right to talk about the problem of a forgotten earthquake. Similarly, as some other colleagues said, there was the problem of Emilia and Lombardy. The lump of the unscrupulous management of resources has then reverberated on income support, because it must be clear, in this House, that income support measures have practically been downloaded into the budgets of the regions: nothing more and nothing less has been done. On the contrary, for all workers in those areas, to understand themselves, agricultural workers and collaborators, those who work there - and Confcommercio told you at the hearing - have not been given the extension and remain walking. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] As the 700 municipal police officers - as the rapporteur says - are still walking, because the Gasparri-Mallegni amendment on the substance has not been adopted. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Nor was it done, as Mrs Toffanin reminded us yesterday, anything alternative such as, for example, vouchers to try to do something. In conclusion, the municipalities, the mayors gave you dozens of indications. I would like to point out - because I listened very carefully to the speeches - that the amendments adopted were adopted because almost all the groups have translated what had been said at the hearing into an amending proposal. There is no plaque on those amendments, because it is a work of the Commission, and we have also told you: it is not correct! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I cannot redo the list that Mr Arrigoni made, but the dioceses, the architectural norms, all those rules that the civil protection technicians suggested to us, we translated them into amendments that were then absorbed. Therefore, it is not that something has been done by someone: something has been done all together, a great piece has remained out and the reason why we believe that a vote of abstention should be given is because the piece that has remained outside is very important for what I explained to you. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We have drawn up amendments of all kinds, which we have tabled and which are on the record. Forza Italia has committed itself because, rightly, it has undertaken to make a responsible opposition on the contents, as our Parent Company has always stated. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We have done so and at this point, however, I say to you that perhaps reading what we produce could definitely improve the measure and perhaps it could also not deny what President Conte said on 11 June. [[Live applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations very much.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u70	COLTORTI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law was issued in order to avoid the expiry of rules in favour of the populations affected by the earthquake and, briefly, contains: the extension of the deadlines for the heavy pay envelope; the extension and suspension of the deadlines for tax and contribution payments; the suspension of the payment of the RAI fee and the main domestic users; the extension of the state of emergency until 31 December 2018 with the possibility of extension for a further twelve months; an amendment to regularise the many abusive wooden houses built autonomously by the displaced, such as that of the 95-year-old in Fiastra; the possibility of building in the presence of small discrepancies that did not interact with the structural characteristics of the building. If the project of reconstruction or repair of the damaged building will lead to an architectural result even slightly different from the original one, a technical report by a professional in charge will have to be submitted that the modification will not create structural damage to the building in cases of new seismic events. Again, there is the possibility for the municipalities to create equipped areas and many other interventions. Some numbers: 300 million for the extension of the state of emergency; 10 million for the construction of equipment and tourist areas for campers and caravans for owners of second homes. We have given the opportunity to spread, from 1 January 2019, the social security contributions paid by the employer. There are 700 staff units working in the 130 municipalities. The ANCI and Forza Italia required a further extension beyond 31 December 2018, but for this measure refer to the budget law of next autumn, in which there is the will to allocate specific resources. For all these figures, the relevant financial cover has been identified. We would like to stress that, in order to intervene on minor discrepancies, the special Commission has not been given a free hand to abuse. The Movement, since its origins, has always condemned abuses and condonions. What has been included is the possibility of building for non-structural changes, as will have to be verified by professional technicians. In the decree is also inserted the extension for the first six months of 2019 of the integration fund in derogation for the Whirlpool plant. We had no difficulty in supporting this part of the decree-law, even though the first signatory was the Democratic Party. Colleagues in the opposition know well that the issue of job loss and not only of Whirlpool workers is at the heart of the whole Movement: we do not care who submits an amendment, we are interested in the good of the country! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Minister Luigi Di Maio has set a technical table for July 6th, where property and social partners will meet to provide employment guarantees and not just subsidies forever. It is also evident that this crisis is yet another one that we are witnessing in the country, following a sensible industrial policy, carried out in the previous decades that has even allowed and financed the decentralisation abroad of industrial activities. In the past years, in the name of the market, there has sometimes been a social butcher shop and the fact that nowadays there are places where you work in precarious conditions, for a few euros per hour, did not want the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bagnai.]] In fact, I think that's one of the reasons why the Movement and the League have had so much support. In the past two years the National Confederation of Crafts and Small and Medium Enterprises (CNA) of the Marche has evidenced that almost 500 activities have been closed and 1,500 jobs have been lost and many of these have not been lost in the area of the crater. The opposition will say that this is the economic crisis, but, as has also been said in this House, the crisis is the increase in the scissors, which sees an increase in wealth in the hands of the few and the loss of purchasing power for most citizens. It is a crisis due to this model of socio-economic development, wanted by the governments that preceded us! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Oppositions and, in particular, PD have emphasized that there have been a number of cut-off amendments. It is the game of politics to table amendments and then say that the government has not responded to sacred demands of the country with extreme hypocrisy. I remember that the Government gave 20 billion euros to bankers and in the earthquake area resources were spent to build emergency housing solutions (SAE), which without any control have reached the cost of 6,500 euros per square meter. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Romeo]] The measure was issued a few days before the deadline and the Government had to intervene immediately after the installation, therefore with extremely short times. The main demands of the affected citizens, to the extent permitted by law and financial cover, have been made. The issue of the seismic vulnerability of schools certainly did not have the right emphasis: it is unfortunately a serious problem, common to the whole country. It is remembered, however (in particular to a forgetful PD), how the direction of the interventions has been in their hands for two years. I'm gonna finish. Senator Verducci speaks of an advanced model of intervention, but he doesn't ask why, two years later, all the reconstruction has yet to start. You didn't read the government contract well, which you quote. The decisions must be taken with knowledge of the case and it is also evident to the last schoolteacher that the Government cannot take decisions unless it first assessed the socio-economic situation: that situation, however, was well known to those who ruled for years and had in hand all the documents necessary to make the decisions and realized that there were improvements to be made only after the decree issued by its commissioner had been presented. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bagnai]] That is why the Movimento 5 Stars will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u71	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law 29 May 2018, n. 55, introducing further urgent measures in favour of the populations of the territories of the Regions Abruzzo, Lazio, Marche and Umbria, affected by the seismic events that took place since 24 August 2016, with the warning that the Presidency will be deemed authorized to make any changes of formal coordination that may prove necessary. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups, whose senators stand up. Comments from the PD Group. See Annex B.]] Colleagues, if we were to establish an applause meter, I should say that this is the legislature of records that never happened. I suspend the sitting until the arrival of the Minister for Economic Development and Labour and Social Policy, whose information on accidents in the workplace is expected at 12.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.43 a.m. and resumed at 12.32 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u72	The next item is the report by the Minister for Economic and Labour Development and Social Policy on accidents at the workplace. I call the Minister for Economic Development and Labour and Social Policy, Mr Di Maio.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u73	Mr President, first of all I would like to greet all the senators. I would like to say that it is an honour for me to speak in this House for the first time. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] I would like to thank you for your attention and for your attention to this information on a very important subject, namely accidents at the workplace. It is an issue on which we are working as a government and which starts from data that are very worrying. Workers continue to fall like soldiers on the battlefield. A few days ago he was a Venetian worker, whom I would like to mention in this House, Pasquale Misitano, 42 years old, the last of the more than 300 victims of accidents at work since the beginning of this year. Pasquale leaves a wife, two children and a third coming who unfortunately will never know. A deep condolence and closeness go to his relatives and to all the families of workers who are victims of fatal accidents, and to all those workers who have suffered serious and crippling accidents in their professional lives. [[Applause. The President and the Assembly stand.]] The numbers coming from INAIL are devastating and look like a war bulletin, as far as I'm concerned. In the first four months of 2018 286 workers died at work, an increase of 9.2 percent compared to the same period of 2017. Today there would be 349 deaths: an average of 2 people every day and unfortunately the real figure could be even higher, considering workers not protected by INAIL and claims of fatal injury not recognized as such by INAIL, as well as the whole world of work in black. The list of people who lose their lives while doing their work unfortunately extends every day. Before the person I recalled at the beginning of my speech, they found the death of Salvatore Lombardo, a worker in the Fincantieri plant, 43 years old; Davide Olivieri, who died only 22 years old, crushed by a forklift; Giuseppe Cicero, who at the age of fifty lost his life overwhelmed by his tractor; Biagio Amendolia, 63 years old, fell from a scaffolding. Let me say that if safety in the workplace is to be a culture first of all, this culture of safety must be first and foremost the public buildings of the State and the participating companies of the State. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] These deaths are called "white deaths" and in reality very often have nothing candid, but derive from the transgression of the basic safety standards. The trend of the first five months of 2018, as mentioned above, recorded an increase in accidents, mainly attributable to falls from above, investments by means or machines, poisoning in confined environments, overturning mechanical means especially in agriculture. Between January and December 2017 the complaints of accidents received at INAIL were 635.433, in line with those found in the same period of 2016. The reduction of 1,379 cases (i.e. -0.2 percent) is due to the fall in accidents at work, while those travelling on the home-work journey and vice versa increased by 2.8%. I want to be very clear here, as Minister of Labour and Social Policy, but also as Minister of Economic Development: I am not one of those who thinks that safety at work can only be achieved by dumping burdens and responsibilities on businesses, i.e. through the exclusive use of punitive measures against businesses and entrepreneurs. There is a need to raise awareness among employers and employees about a culture of risk security through information and training activities. It is certainly necessary to strengthen inspection activities of supervision and control at the workplace through the strengthening of the competent administrative structures, but when these structures detect violations of the rules, they must be able to accompany the enterprise towards the putting into order and not only to impose sanctions. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] We must encourage good business practices and reward companies that invest in security, focusing on facilitations. We need to reduce costs by facilitating the value of VAT on employers' purchases of safety products for companies. In general, I would like to convey to this House my conviction, which has developed over the years when I was a Member of Parliament. It is not with more laws and even more laws that we will get the result of protecting workers. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] Probably the result is achieved precisely by going in the opposite direction, which is to begin to implement and enforce the existing laws and, with reward mechanisms, begin to reward those who not only comply with the rules, but also do better than what the law on safety at work provides. We must strengthen controls more, we have said so, but at the same time reduce bureaucracy for those who want to comply with the rules against accidents at work, who cannot be forced to compile dozens and dozens of paperwork to get into order. This concept does not apply only to occupational protection for those already entitled to INAIL protection. Dear scents, there is a whole other category, there are many other people, many other workers who, given the changed new context of the world of work, need social protection and do not have it. As a first act as Minister of Labour I decided to open the doors of the Ministry of Labour to so-called riders, new categories of work that are part of new types of economy. I involved them directly, I listened to their voices and opened a dialogue to plan a table among these big companies of the so-called gig economy. These guys, who deliver bike meals using an App and who often don't even have a contract (let's imagine a protection), were the first workers to enter the Ministry of Labour of this Government. It is our intention to start introducing protection for these categories, including by working with companies. Next Monday at the Ministry of Labour there will be the first table between companies - the big multinational Apps - and riders. What's the target? To find together a form of contract that gives protection to these children and can recognize them a minimum fee, so as to give a minimum of dignity to a worker and his own definition. A few days ago at the European Council of Labour Ministers we tried to incorporate the concept of worker, who is the worker today, into one of the directives that was being discussed. In fact, it is not said that those who work today can really be defined as such, because we are in a moment from the life of the country in which many young people accept to have a job even without earning, so let alone if they claim protection. The concept of who is the worker and what is the minimum of dignity that must be matched to those who work will be one of those we will have most at heart as the Government of the country. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] At first it was my intention to take a measure and protect these workers directly by a rule, including it in a decree-law. But I have to say that the meeting with these big companies [[Comments of Senator Bellanova]] it went well: there was a willingness to open the table. I say this clearly: if there is a willingness to give protection to these young people through consultation, that is very good. The Ministry will sponsor this consultation and will bring the objective of giving protection to riders. If there is no such availability, because there will be no willingness on the part of these companies to stop exploiting our children, then we will make a rule to protect them. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] I believe that it is not by fueling the conflict between employer and employee that we will be able to pursue the issue of workers' rights and business development. It's time to team up. In the face of crises like the last one, which the officials of the Ministry of Labour - I do not take credit for it - addressed brilliantly on the TIM issue, which prevented the integration fund for 35,000 workers, I understood how important it is to put the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Economic Development under the same political direction because first, at that table, we avoided the integration fund, but then, by common agreement between property and workers, we said to ourselves: all right, here we played in defense and we avoided the integration fund, with solidarity contracts, but now we cross the road, we go to the Ministry of Economic Development and invest in new models of development, to relaunch these sectors and not always face them with the fear that jobs are being lost or that we must end up in cash integration. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] The belief that employer and employee have to play team games from now on comes also from a concept, that of Made in Italy in the world. Made in Italy has become our ambassador and has been our most important ambassador in the world, even in the darkest moments for the reputation of this nation [[Comments of Senator Bellanova]] , because in these years those who were entrepreneur were always also worker (working in the company) and those who were worker has always felt a bit entrepreneur in the small and medium Italian enterprise and has brought the most beautiful and most quality products that are on the market around the world. I will continue this conviction in the direction of the Ministry of Labour and Economic Development. All workers, as stated in Article 38 of the Constitution, regardless of the legal qualification of employment relationships, whether employed or not, must have the same levels of protection in the event of an accident and occupational disease by INAIL. Our objective is the absolute improvement of health and safety conditions in the workplace. In order for this action to be effective, I will continue to meet and compare myself with all those who represent this sector. The dialogue between the parties is fundamental and I want to say clearly to all those involved in this issue that the doors of the Ministry - and we would miss something else - will always be open and even when we do not agree, we will continue to confront ourselves in all respects in order to find a common solution, that can satisfy as much as possible the weakest parts of our society. A first tool to be developed is the national information system for workplace prevention (SINP), which provides data to guide, plan and evaluate the effectiveness of accident prevention and occupational diseases. The technical table for the development and coordination of this system involves, in addition to representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, representatives of other competent administrations, such as the Ministries of Health, Public Administration, Internal Affairs, Defence, Economics and Finance, and representatives of the Conference of Presidents of the Regions and Autonomous Provinces, as well as, of course, INAIL. The actual start of the technical table will allow us to verify the adequacy of the operation of the so-called SINP, depending on the needs of programming, monitoring and evaluation of security policies. Another issue concerns economic incentives. The information and training system, which is at the heart of the risk prevention system, must therefore be increasingly important, and I have already said, and I repeat, we must promote a system of reward for companies that decide to invest in safety, to improve working environments and to engage in training. It is very important to cooperate with the Ministry of Education, University and Research in order to establish a culture of safety at work already from school by strengthening the instruments of school-work alternation. In addition, research should be stepped up in order to identify innovative solutions that can provide all workers with 4.0 protection. Entities such as INAIL or INPS in other countries of the world are the main sources of venture capital for innovative start-ups. Our idea is to create a fund for innovative start-ups that can also contribute to subjects such as INAIL and INPS for precise objectives. These include technologies both for safety at work and for people who have been affected by accidents at work. Technologies can change the quality of life of those who work in Italy and we have to invest a lot on this. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] On these issues by July 2018 - yesterday I was at the presentation of the report of the president of INAIL - the INAIL will publish a call for 4.5 million euros concerning three important institutional areas: job reintegration, insurance protection and prevention. For the chapter on supervision of controls, it should be recalled that the application of health and safety legislation in the workplace is primarily carried out by the inspection services of the relevant ASLs per territory. However, it is necessary to put the ASLs in a position to do all the checks by the appropriate means. Only in certain sectors of activity, mainly in the construction sector, can such supervision be exercised by territorial offices of the National Labour Inspectorate. Coordination between bodies will be very important because competence, with regard to safety at work, is stratified; it concerns different levels of the state, different territorial and national areas and, as I said yesterday at the presentation of the INAIL report, I commit myself to try to coordinate these bodies as much as possible, not with tax laws that say: •You have to coordinate those we have to dozens and unfortunately, however, they do not coordinate but try to favor the human relationship of those who have the responsibilities of these bodies and trying to promote a political coordination of these people with a Minister who puts them around a table and not only gives them objectives, but it transposes all the feedback and all the requests that come from these worlds. I would like to highlight the commendable work of the inspectorate. The 280 inspectors employed in the prevention activity only carried out 23,000 inspections in 2017. As regards the rate of irregularities of the inspected companies, there was an increase in 2017 of about 3.5 percentage points compared to 2016, i.e. around 77 percent compared to 73 percent in the previous year. The strengthening of these inspection bodies, as skills in the field of health and safety at work are essentially limited to the construction sector, is possible through the adoption of an act of high administration in current legislation, but it will have to be accompanied by an increase in the number of units, which today is not more than 280, a not sufficient number. The inspectorate has a lack of staff due to the so-called turnover block, and over the next five years inspection and non-spectitive staff will almost be halved due to retirements. So, if we really want to strengthen the supervisory activity, we should expect at least 1,000 units to be employed, and we are working on this dossier from day one. While it is true that the inspectorate has started a recruitment of 150 units, given that the competitions have not yet been completed, this number certainly cannot fill the staff shortages that have occurred in recent years and that will occur in the coming years. We're gonna have to do a lot more. There is also the issue of disparities between sectors. There are sectors, such as public security, whose internal safety rules are still in place 20 years ago. It is necessary to give life to the single manager of information on safety at work, which is essential to prevent accidents and not to intervene when it is too late. Another point to stress, Mr President, is employment blackmail: if there are working environments that are not safe, these, in a normal employment situation, could be rejected by the worker, but in our country there is a situation in which you accept any work and in any environment in order to succeed in working. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In the last twenty years, the Italian employment model has been the precarious, which is one of the causes upstream of this issue. It is essential to undermine the logic of the maximum decrease that governs the custody of works both public and private [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] , mainly because these works often fall within the subcontracting system, the situation, in which the company and worker do not have time and way to follow appropriate training. Not to mention the food, which is another of those tools that is part of the regulations that we want to change. If we want to intervene, allowing those who work to choose a decent job, we must put in place an instrument that exists in all European countries, the flexicurity, which allows those who are expelled from the world of work, or those who seek a new job because they see in their workplace, conditions absolutely not in line with the law to form themselves through a center for the job really working and to be able to be reinserted from that center for the employment in a working environment that at least respects the common regulations more. We must work on the culture of safety in the workplace, starting, as I said at the beginning, from public buildings, public workplaces and our state partners, because the state must set an example on this and you will see how many citizens will believe much more in the laws enacted in recent years on safety at work. The action of this Government will aim not only to promote the creation of new and stable jobs instead of the precarious but also all those who work in conditions of total insecurity and who, in addition to work, risk even losing their lives thanks. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups and Senator De Bertoldi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u74	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister for Economic Development and Labour and Social Policy. Senator Durnwalder is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u75	Mr President, Minister, the commitment against the deaths at work has no political color. It is serious that so many are registered in an advanced country like Italy. We are pleased that it is information on this issue that inaugurates your presence as Minister in this House. Some people talk about war bulletins, white deaths go hand in hand with the economic crisis and the fact that many companies have reduced their expenses in safety at the workplace. For this reason, companies that build the optimum conditions for the safety of workers must be rewarded with incentives and tax reductions, which are not only those provided for in the rules but constitute a substantial commitment, an act of care towards workers. The same must be done by citizens through their purchasing behaviour. Just as there is increasing attention to those companies that produce according to ethical principles of environmental sustainability, consumers must pay the same attention to working conditions and safety. In short, Minister Di Maio, I believe that there is a lot of room for improvement from the regulatory point of view and public sensitivity to counter the phenomenon. The important thing is that the interventions are substantial, they aim at resolving the problem and not just become a new bureaucratic task. In the last parliamentary term, the Autonomy Group has repeatedly pointed out the problems of small and very small mountain enterprises, especially agricultural ones. For these small and mostly family-run enterprises, the introduction of new rules has not led to an improvement in safety conditions due to the relative simplicity of the working process and the low risk of the machinery used. The bureaucracy for such small companies is a brake on production and a disincentive to continue the activity and this in the mountains is also a problem for the keeping of the social fabric and for the function of garrison of the territory for the contrast to the hydrogeological failure. It is just one example and others could be made. Therefore, Minister, it is okay to work to combat this scourge of death at work, but let the measures really attack the problem from which the risk arises. Let us therefore act decisively, but with great care, carefully considering all aspects. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and M5S, and Senator De Bertoldi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u76	He's enlisted to speak Senator Laforgia. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u77	Mr President, Minister, it is impossible, in addition to being unworthy, to hold in five minutes a debate and a reflection on a dramatically complex issue such as safety at work. Photography is what you have already done, Minister: more than 300 deaths since the beginning of this year and an increase of more than 9% compared to the same months last year. It is a cold accounting, behind which there are stories of workers seriously injured in the very place where they should have felt more protected, i.e. their place of work, or stories of lives dramatically broken. The proposals are those that I have also heard in this House: working on the culture of prevention, involving trade unions and businesses; using automation and technological innovation processes, precisely to carry out the most dangerous work; significantly increasing the number of inspectors at work. In fact, the reward mechanism is fine, but if someone does not respect the rules, it is right that he be punished and punished. I think we should do this. Of course, investment tax measures for security-related expenditure are also good, and the Government, if it starts quickly in the direction of such measures, will find our agreement. We must, however, be aware of one point: we cannot tackle the issue of health and safety at work without understanding well what is the model of work organisation - and, I would like to say, production systems - that is taking place in the time we live in. You yourself have said this in some way, Minister: there is a strong link between the deaths we mourn daily, this sad accounting, and the fact that a model and mechanism are being imposed whereby the alerousness of the risk of enterprise - that characteristic trait to capitalist enterprise, as we have known - is equal to the workers and this produces insecurity, precariousness and a deterioration of the conditions of workers and workers. This is happening in the mechanism of maximum decrease, when it involves the public, and also in that of the chain of contracts and subcontracting, in which one loses sight of the ownership of the responsibilities also in relation to the topic of safety at work. We no longer understand who is responsible and the phenomena of black work come also from that type of condition and context. For this reason I think that we should start from this broader and more organic reflection, which also concerns the riders he says he wants to take care of, even if it seems to me to record that his so-called decree of dignity does not take off (the advice is to resist the many sirens that are moving in this country). We do not yet know the contours of this decree-law, but it applies to riders and, for example, to workers in a very delicate sector, even infiltrated by crime, such as logistics, and to the millions of workers and workers in the most disparate sectors of this country. I tell you, Minister, trying to give you a piece of advice with the utmost respect: stop flogging from one subject to another by chasing the fashion of the moment. To deal with work issues, work needs to be known. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] In this country, once and for all, we need to address the issue of work in its organicity: it is enough to pursue initiatives that are consumed in the space of a press conference or in a live on Facebook, which you are a teacher of. Work must be tackled in its complexity and drama, because the issue of safety at work today in this country is also deeply linked to that of its crushing. In conclusion, since 1955 this country has not set up a Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the condition of workers in the highest institutions of the State; it was 1955 and it was the second legislature; we are talking about a Commission chaired by Mr Leopoldo Rubinacci. Since then, of course, the country has changed profoundly. We will present a legislative proposal for the establishment of a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, not out of academic necessity - we are full of studies telling us what the work has become today - but because, Mr President, we need to make sure that, even cross-border to the political forces, we fall into the reality of the work of this country and what it has become. We also need to understand this through an instrument such as that of a Commission of Inquiry which has powers comparable to those of the judiciary, because this is also how we deal with the issues of safety at work. In fact, if one does not have to die of work, as would recommend the wisdom of a modern society, since if anything we should free women and men from working time, surely one cannot die at work. A civilized society cannot afford this. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU Groups and the Senators Astorre and Rampi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u78	You are registered to speak Senator Nastri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u79	Minister, how many times have each of us read or heard: "It was a disgrace" or: Was the unpredictable happened or, again, did he perform that task for forty years without ever having a problem? Minister, this way of thinking has caused so many lives to be broken and we are here today to listen once again to a war bulletin. Look, no political speculation on such an important and delicate subject; I do not want to assign responsibility to this or that Government; I do not care and do not care to us of the Brothers of Italy Group. What interests us most is the establishment of a real and efficient occupational safety plan that goes from continuing training to the empowerment of companies and workers. It is not acceptable that in 2018 it is still possible to die crushed by a tractor or a forklift, or inside a tank or falling from the roof of a shed. Let's say enough to the contracts to the maximum decrease, to the endless sub-contracts that in fact are supported propinating working conditions comparable to slavery. Today are quoted numbers, the umpteenth ones, that tell us about a massacre that never ends. We ask the Government and you, Minister, to facilitate companies for training, for investment in security: preventing and training must be convenient and not produce further bureaucracy. If I recall correctly, about ten years ago the single text on health and safety in the workplace was adopted, which is still awaiting the signature of some twenty implementing decrees. Among them, for example, the system for the qualification of enterprises and self-employed workers, which has remained a dead letter for all those sectors with high accident rates, i.e. characterised by strong organisational complexity and serious phenomena of unfair competition. This set of unimplemented rules has a number of negative effects: lack of protection for workers, deep uncertainties in the management of prevention by employers. There are 300 deaths on June 14, which we know is incorrect because other deaths of black workers, victims of the caporalate, are often not counted. At the moment, 617 people died at work in 2017 (58 percent out of the company), in response to the 1,112 complaints received. If even the 34 cases still being investigated were all recognized at work, there would be 651 deaths, with a decrease of 2.8 percent compared to 670 in 2016 (which is the historical minimum since 1951). This is stated in the INAIL Annual Report. Complaints of accident were 641,000, in line with 2016, and 417,000 were recognised at work, of which 19 percent were outside the company. Accidents at work caused about 11 million days of disability at the cost of INAIL. The vast majority of deaths detected at work involved Italians (514), while 33 involved workers from other EU countries and 70 non-EU countries. Almost half of the reported fatal accidents (287, 46.5%) involved people over 50 years of age. Among these, 55 deaths were involving people over sixty - five years of age. Unfortunately, in the first five months of 2018 they arrived at INAIL 389 reports of fatal injury, an increase of 3.7 percent compared to the same period of 2017 (14 more cases). This has been made known in the annual report by INAIL, which points out that the increase relates only to cases occurring on the road, i.e. on the return journey between the home and the place of work (from 104 to 118), while for those occurring at the time of work the complaints were 271 in both periods. In particular, I would like to highlight some things that I consider to be extremely important: on the basis of recent data relating to 2017 it is in the construction sector, together with that of agriculture, that the greatest number of accidents at work is concentrated; the number of serious or fatal accidents is increasing considerably, especially if one considers that it is an accident at work that involves people in journeys related to work; drivers are often victims of accidents at work, due to unfair competition from East lorry drivers who travel without rules and at prices much lower than ours. To remain competitive, our people must kill themselves with work, often even literally. In order to address this complex problem, it is very important to implement prevention and awareness-raising activities: it would be appropriate to institutionalise the events dedicated to them, especially in schools, especially professional ones. Minister, in your information to the House and in many other public statements - including those of today - you have made a solemn commitment: to combat precariousness (through the introduction, in particular, of a series of protections for riders). It is an important challenge for the future of our young people, but I urge you to also take action in favour of the many IRCSS researchers, who have been waiting for decades to stabilize their contracts. They are highly qualified people who guarantee the activity of study, research and innovation in the health sector and who, in the absence of concrete attention, are condemned to emigrate abroad or to seek employment in private companies. Minister, I conclude with a sentence from a song by a singer-songwriter from our city, Edward Bennato: "One day you think you're right and you're a great man, in another you wake up and you have to start from scratch." You and your Government will have to work hard to ensure that Italian workers do not yet have to start from scratch. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u80	He's enlisted to speak Senator Patriarch. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the Minister to allow me to take a few minutes to go a little off the subject. I would remind you that his presence was devoted exclusively and in particular to the issue of accidents at work and so-called white deaths. I tell you this because in recent weeks, when this Government of yours, the Government of Change, began, we have indeed witnessed a mass distraction operation: we have devoted weeks and weeks to immigration issues; we have devoted days, Minister, to the issue of Roma. These are the issues which your effervescent colleague, Minister for the Interior, has called for. Here, Minister, I am telling you with my heart: help us to put the crucial issues that concern the future of this country back at the centre. The Dicastery you are presiding over is the heart of the country. And then, Minister, we would like to talk to you about Europe, perhaps bringing back to the attention of this House the themes indicated by the European pillar of social rights, which you discussed with us in the House and approved in Gothenburg last November. We were talking about a Europe of equal opportunities in access to the labour market and investment in European public common goods: infrastructure, research, innovation, environmental protection, social security. Minister, please bring these issues back to the attention of this country. Then tell us, Minister, how you intend to proceed, with regard to this agenda that you proposed in the election campaign, about the income of citizenship in your many current variations. We would also like to know how you intend to reform the Fornero law, the battle of your Movement during the election campaign. We would like to know how you intend to change the labour reform. We would like to know your guidelines on future implementing decrees concerning the reform of the third sector, which you did not vote in the previous parliamentary term. What then will you want to do about the fund dedicated to family caregivers? How do you intend to move in conjunction with your fellow Minister without portfolio on family and disability issues? How do you intend to proceed with respect to maternity protection? Tell us, moreover, how you intend to proceed with regard to maternity protection and in rewarding not so much security enterprises - Minister - but those enterprises that produce innovation in the organization of work and that help conciliation: that is the point and the delicate junction. The ability to innovate must be stimulated in companies, ensuring safety not only by producing new investments in machinery - also important - but also by working in new organisations that make the worker the protagonist. Tell us also, Minister - I say this because you are well aware that this is related to the subject under discussion - what you intend to do with the law on the head of state. It seems to me that in the last statements some of your fellow ministers mentioned a change to this law. This law is important and we have also discussed it in the Chamber of Deputies: it is a law that wants to prevent undeclared work, which produces accidents and sometimes death. Finally, Minister, before we go into this matter, I would just like to ask you a courtesy: do not set up directing booths. I remember you in your speeches in the Chamber of Deputies: when we were talking about a directing booth, you always said that it was a waste of time and that we were dilating the problems. If you want to address the issues of citizenship income and the issues that we care about and are also at the heart of the Democratic Party, you should measure on the concreteness and proposals - we are there and we will open the debate - rather than setting up directing booths, which give the impression of yet another escapism to postpone the discussion on the issues that affect the life of the country. I invite you to avoid them: as far as possible, you really try to stay on the ground. As regards the subject on the agenda, I would remind you that in the Senate a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the phenomenon of accidents at work and, more generally, occupational safety was established in the 14th legislature. In fact, the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry was approved, with the declared aim of keeping high and watchful attention to the tragically defined phenomenon of white deaths and, more generally, accidents at work. This Commission of Inquiry, in the 17th legislature, concluded its work with the approval of a very thorough, elaborate and proactive report, from which we intend to take up the thread and take it far away. The INAIL data of these ten years - and you have confirmed this - recorded a slight, but constant decrease in this phenomenon. In 2017 617 deaths were confirmed and in 2018, as we were reminded, there was a slight increase. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Patriarch Senator, please proceed to the conclusion. Patriarca (PD). This data does not reassure us and, as far as we are concerned, the commitment remains firm and constant. I conclude by taking up a statement, I think very dear to you, by the President of the Republic - who has been "departed" for a few days from his Movement - contained in a passage from the speech of 1 May. The President of the Republic said: The sequence - unfortunately continuing - of fatal accidents in the workplace is alarmed. Our thoughts go first of all to the victims, and to the deep pain of their families, to whom we express a sincere closeness. The President of the Republic continued: Beyond the statistics - which are always reporting a very high number of accidents and occupational diseases - if even one person lost his life at work, or was forced to have serious impairments, it would still be an intolerable tragedy. These events are caused by circumstances that can and must be avoided. This recalls the responsibility of all parties to the Agreement. Mr President, Minister, we are still here, we invite you to discuss concreteness and we are ready for comparison. We will do so with seriousness and competence. We need competent honesty, Minister, and not uncompetent honesty. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator. Patriarca (PD). I shall conclude, Mr President. You are well aware, Minister, that if you entrust a bus to an honest, but incompetent person, it can do some damage: so I invite you to the competent honesty. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u82	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u83	Mr President, the figures you have stated, Minister, are very worrying: the nearly 400 deaths since the beginning of the year, the average deaths at work, which has increased by more than 9% and the victims, which have reached a dramatic figure of more than two per day. It is really data and numbers that show the dramatic nature of the deaths at work, which must therefore be at the centre of our attention. We share, Minister, your considerations and your willingness to act within the Government to put a stop to this tragedy. We are convinced that the government action must therefore be directed on two main routes, the first of which is certainly a strengthening of the surveillance, control and inspection actions, hitting severely those who profit exploits the workers, not respecting the rules and rules that consciously and unscrupulously determine these deaths. We must severely target those who cannot be called entrepreneurs, but only criminals who put profit first in relation to the primary task, which is to create development, employment and opportunities. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] It is, however, a minority for us; a minority that must be hit and cut off. It is certainly necessary, therefore, to make more effective the joint action of the ASLs, of the National Labour Inspectorate; we certainly need more recruitment, we need to lay down rules for which the criterion by which public works are awarded cannot be the maximum reduction. All these actions are certainly necessary and fundamental, but they are not enough. Punishment is not enough. The problem is solved not only by punitive measures, not only by repression, but above all by prevention. We must help businesses and entrepreneurs, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, who are still facing a thousand difficulties, with great dignity and a sense of responsibility, in a period of full economic crisis, beyond what the representatives of the previous Government want to say. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] These are the entrepreneurs who must be protected and helped: every day they have to face a thousand concerns, a thousand tasks, difficult choices; every day, every day. There are too many costs, too many taxes, too many red tape. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] These entrepreneurs must also be helped by measures of the Government, of our Government. You need to give them more time, more energy and resources to apply them to safety at work and less to compile often unnecessary paper mountains. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] This is the true answer, the most effective, to avoid deaths and accidents at work. Summing up these positions: more controls and less bureaucracy. Another consideration that we want to make, Minister, is linked to some data according to which many are the victims over sixty years old. Our analysis of these data leads us to believe that, from this point of view too, the Fornero law must be changed. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] It is not, therefore, just a matter of social justice: we cannot be the country that has passed from baby pensions to the highest retirement age in Europe; it is not only a matter of giving more employment to young people, but also of safety at work: it is enough with over sixty and over sixty-five years on the scaffolding. Clearly, this situation creates insecurity. In short, there is another issue on which we must reflect. We live in a society devoted to progress, but it is also measured by safety at work, especially by safety at work: it is a vital issue and civilization. What will the government's successes be measured by? From spread level or deficit-GDP ratio? No, we do not believe that these are the fundamental data on which our fellow citizens will be measured the effectiveness of the action of this Government. It will be measured by the level of employment, by the number of young Italians who will not emigrate and who will remain to build their lives and their future in our country. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] It will be measured by the reduction of accidents or deaths at work. The League will evaluate the results of the government action starting from these numbers and these results. These are the country's priorities: work and safety at work. And we are sure that you will live up to this difficult task, vital for the future of our communities and our citizens. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups and Senator De Bertoldi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u84	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u85	Mr President, I welcome the Minister (or several-Ministers) to this House. From Forza Italia, let me associate myself with the pain for all the recent and past victims, because we really feel that this is a battle of civilization. Preventing not only the victims, the dead, but also accidents at work is not a single political problem in this House. I believe that work, if it is done well, will find a very broad sharing by all the political forces present here. Among the things that you have announced and that you will do, meeting the various representatives of the world of work, as well as of the world of enterprise, university and various organizations that are present in the territory, you may have forgotten to say that we senators are waiting for you: there is also a working committee and an industry commission within the Senate and there are also professionalism (excluding mine) that could give you so many good advice in your work. So there is a world outside, in which we too participate, but there is also this world inside, which has a great desire to confront itself on this subject. And he has a great desire to find a reduction, if not the end, of the deaths and accidents at work, which you said were many: about 300 just from the beginning of this year. The numbers are really dramatic: 1,112 died in 2017. Whoever dies is given peace, it is said; but have you thought of who remains? To what is the destiny of families, especially those young people who, in addition to a relative and a parent, have also lost their only income? I think, among the people you'll have to meet, you'd do well to predict the family, the many family members. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , that - believe me - many times I am in a state of total despair. I am not saying this because you have to meet all the family members, but you, Minister, are in a position to think about them too (and of course there are organizations that have to do this). Then I would like to say that it is true that there is a high number of deaths (1,112 is said in 2017, not two, but almost three per day), but there are also - as is known - 1,142 accidents per day, which fortunately are not as dramatic as those fatal. These are numbers that lead to the approximately 417,000 accidents recognised in 2017 and to the approximately 640,000 reported; probably, in the difference between denounced and recognized there might also be something in black, which is lost in statistics. What is still to be taken into account are the numbers: 90 million lost days of work, which certainly affect the person who does not go to work, but also affects our businesses. Therefore, by safeguarding workers who have an accident, we also indirectly contribute to creating that positivity in the enterprise which is absolutely an objective that anyone who is interested in his Dicastery would like to achieve. The pillars on which I would base my efforts to find a solution to the problem of safety in the world of work are information, training, prevention and protection. I cannot, of course, develop the meanings contained in each of these words - I see that the microphone light is already flashing - but I want to say one thing: we also need resources. Minister, you have done, not only in this House today, but also previously (which is absolutely legitimate in an electoral campaign), a series of narratives in which you saw a chance to create a different world than what we live every day. A world that has also made us dream or that has made many Italians dream, since many have voted for it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u86	I invite you to conclude your speech, Senator Floris.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u87	FLORIS (FI-BP). I'm done. Now you have to see which of these narratives and dreams you will be able to realize. As a citizen, I have to say that I hope there are many, because today my life is in politics, but when I leave the Chamber I am a citizen. We are therefore not here to hinder the positive processes, but we would like to be part of it, I repeat, in continuing this pleasant and pleasant chat in our parliamentary committees, in which we will be able to compare and unravel the issues much more deeply. And above all, we would like to understand, in addition to the issues - why this is the case - what are the resources available, the funds to be able to achieve these dreams. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u88	He's enlisted to speak Senator Paragon. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u89	Mr President, the information presented by Minister Di Maio once again represents the unconsciousness with which a certain ruling class has dealt with the subject of work in recent years. The white deaths, the accidents at work, the precariousness that becomes social invisibility, unemployment, the competition between parents and children to tear a contract are the poisoned boxes of a neoliberalism that became first verb and then electoral program, where once we talked about socialism. The word 'dignity', with which the minister and vice-premier Di Maio engages the government on matters inherent in work, becomes a word charged with social density, therefore charged with political density; a word that attaches itself to the echo of that article 36 of the Constitution that speaks precisely of dignity as an insurmountable limit of remuneration in favour of the citizen. Vice Prime Minister Di Maio recalled Salvatore Lombardo, who died in a Fincantieri plant. Already, Confindustria, who is always ready to be a teacher, always to indicate good recipes, sometimes exposing itself also to immaculate, as had happened with her study center when she had announced misfortunes and catastrophes in case of no victory in the referendum (and so did not go) [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and FdI Groups]] , about this has nothing to say or silent, how silent all the times when we ask transparency about the names of those entrepreneurs who took the money from the banks and did not return them, perhaps to venture into Italian privatizations? [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] By the way, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to think about the idea of restoring a Committee of Inquiry into the banking system, so that we also shed light on the NPLs. The Minister here called on the state-owned companies to be an example of safety at work. To be so means to control that supply chain of subcontracting granted to subjects - often cooperatives - that turn into a real battlefield, where one is annihilated to grab a contract or a allowance provided it is. That's not good. If you will excuse me, I feel somewhat embarrassed to hear that from the left bank comes criticism of citizenship income, that sweeps away the blackmail of those entrepreneurs who continue to say: either take this contract, or you adapt to this pay, or out there is the line of unemployed ready to do what you do not want to do today. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] Maybe it's illegal foreigners who are much easier to threaten. Neoliberalism, accepted by the center-left as the first actor or with the support of technical governments, has meant that work became synonymous with employment, but work and employment are absolutely not the same: the work that becomes work, as it is a bit in the predicate of the border of the gig economy, which, if not normalized, risks producing a modern feudalism. Well then, Minister Di Maio made a clear and marked sign on the riders, that is, on the delivery of the food at home. [[Comments of Senator Bellanova]] No need for new laws. Those that are there must be respected in order to honor the law and the work. Secure investment respects the law and honors the work. For this reason, rewarding even fiscally those who invest in security needs much more than intervening with other rules. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] Security is a cultural fact and working citizens are central. I turn to the left bank: if you have lost even in the Red Regions it is because, perhaps, you betrayed the workers. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] This is the teaching that comes. And not because you're... [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u90	Senator Paragon, please address the Presidency and I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u91	PARAGO (M5S). I say it by the way: in this sad chasm of despair, it becomes a deceptive shore that gambling advertised by actors and footballers. [[Comments of Senator Bellanova]] Therefore, it is simply civilized to stop the deception of gambling advertising. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] Security starts with rights and dignity. Let's move on, Minister, we've started walking on the right path, the real road to work. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups. Congratulations. Many Senators of Grupppo M5S stand up.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u92	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister for Economic Development and Labour and Social Policy, whom I thank for being available. I ask the senators who intend to leave the Chamber to do so in silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u95	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, fellow senators, members of the Government, I would like to bring to your attention yet another criminal and intimidation act perpetrated against a local administrator of the Province of Foggia. Last Friday was set on fire, among other things in broad daylight, the car of the mayor of Monte Sant'Angelo, Pierpaolo D'Arienzo. Only a few days earlier the car of Domenico Rignanese, head of sector of the same Municipality had been burned. The investigation is ongoing, but the Mafia matrix of the two attacks that took place in a municipality that had returned to the vote last year appears likely, after being dissolved for mafia. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u96	I call on the senators who are leaving the Chamber to do so by respecting the fellow Member who is intervening.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u97	Please, Senator Pilgrims. PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Today I want to bring my solidarity, that of Movimento 5 Stars, and - I am sure I am not mistaken - even that of the whole House, to the victims of these cowardly acts, telling them that the institutions will not abandon them and - indeed - they will do everything possible and necessary. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] These two attacks were preceded, among other things, by the murder - yet another - of a criminal, this time in Vieste. Unfortunately, in the Province of Foggia they operate dangerous and rooted criminal associations, whose mafia reach has been underestimated for too many years, which, thanks to this understatement, day after day, have strengthened their presence and military control on the territory. Ultimately, in recent years a new, strong and dangerous criminal identity has been established, defined by the former anti-Mafia prosecutor the fourth Italian mafia. This fourth mafia has, as it were, specialized in some sectors, becoming its leaders, such as the international traffic of hashish and marijuana and that of robberies to banks and value holders. I do not mention any other criminal activity, such as racketeering and extortion. This fourth mafia has left behind a long trail of blood, more than 300 murders in the last forty years, 80 percent of which have been unpunished. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). I would just like to add that it is essential that the work of law enforcement continues, that this Government also continues to operate in the wake of the previous one and that it focuses its attention on what can be done in the judicial field, ensuring that in Foggia they operate daily and in a stable manner the judges of the DDA, as requested by the same CSM. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u100	VESCOVI (L-SP). Mr President, I am speaking only to bring you, the Assembly and the Italians to know about two episodes that have occurred in my region, indeed in the province of Florence, one of which is in Scandicci. On Saturday 23 the city officials approached a gazebo of ours and made us disassemble it because we had not barred the toll booth in which they declared to be anti-fascists. However, this toll booth was not in the model; we told the guards that we would sign it immediately, that there was no problem and that we would go to the municipality. Absolutely not. I wonder: to a party that governs a country, that has four presidents of Region and provincial capitals, a gazebo is disassembled because there was not the toll booth (for which the fault is of the Municipality), that then we went to the municipality to barter? At the same time there were squatters, but -- well, maybe that was the distinction -- the municipality said they didn't bother. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] In response to one of our motions, the city said that abusive valets don't bother. Same thing, speaking of antifascism and racism, I wonder why in the City of Florence since 2005 have been given 8 million and 52,000 euros to the Roma camp of Poderaccio. You know very well what happened then: conflict on fire on Sunday afternoon and a boy who was going to work unfortunately left us life. So, I wonder, if racism is right to distinguish by race, why isn't that money given to other communities? This is equality between ethnic groups and between all. [[Applause from the L-SP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u103	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I am still speaking, as Mr Parrini did yesterday, to urge the response to the fact that we have turned into an oral question. In that inspection act we ask the Minister of Justice to make his own assessments of what has been reported by some press bodies and which has been the subject of an inquiry by the weekly 'L'Espresso'. These articles prefigure the possibility that a series of financings, coming from Esselunga and the manufacturer Parnasi, were made to associations linked to the North League, in order to avoid that a direct financing to the League, on the accounts of the League itself, was part of the seizure of 48 million euros provided by the court of Genoa, in order to bring back to the citizens what was taken away from them for activities unrelated to the purpose for which that money had been allocated. We insist on understanding whether it is true that, having dried up the accounts of the League, in order to avoid the seizure, there have been significant funds, as would result from those investigations, hijacked on other channels to be used anyway. We insist because it is interesting - I believe - for public opinion, for this House and for Parliament to know what the Minister of Justice thinks. I think it is important to understand the assessments, given the relevance of the problem. It would be, in fact, serious if one of the governing parties were found to have been the protagonist of a scam like that which, according to L'Espresso, would have been perpetrated against the citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u104	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-16.ana.u105	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 3 July, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 13.42 a.m.
