ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 5.07 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 27 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u3	I say that the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: "Rome, 1 October 2018 Honourable President, I inform the Lordship Yours that with decrees of the President of the Republic today, adopted on my proposal, after approval by the Council of Ministers, pursuant to Article 10 (3) of Law No 400 of 23 August 1988, of the delegations of functions conferred by the Ministers of Economic Development, Education, University and Research and Infrastructure and Transport, has been assigned the title of Deputy Minister to the respective Subsecretaries of State at the same Dicasteries on. Dr. Dario GALLI, prof. Lorenzo FIORAMONTI e on. Dr. Edward RIXI. F.to Giuseppe Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u4	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u7	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I apologise to the Minister, I will take only five minutes, but the matter is of such importance that I am obliged to speak in this House. Let's talk about the RAI Supervisory Board. Members will recall that on 1 August there was a vote on the candidacy expressed by the Management Board and submitted to the Supervisory Committee for a vote on candidate President Marcello Foa. That vote was negative. The Democratic Party still believed and believes that with that vote the candidacy of President Marcello Foa could not be re-submitted. Despite this, after two months of blocking the activity of the largest public cultural company (and two months there are many, Mr President), the majority forces, carrying out a forcing of which I have made you, and President Delrio has made President Fico, have decided to proceed again to an illegitimate vote on an illegitimate candidacy. This meeting of the Supervisory Committee took place on 26 September, and therefore forced force. Of course, the Democratic Party will make all the necessary appeals in all the seats and we will assert the right to this prevaricating desire compared to a position of guarantee witnessed by the majority. I remember that the new RAI law, Law No. 220 of 2015, gives the President precisely that kind of mission, that is to have an institutional role that represents the entire country and the whole Parliament, but of this the majority, of course, did not want to take into account. There are a number of very serious forcings in this affair. We come to 26 September, Mr President, to the fact that I would like to draw your attention to the seriousness of the matter. The vote was taken, in which the representatives of the Democratic Party Group in the Commission decided not to participate, precisely in protest against these forces. The vote was taken, but obviously the agreement that was made at dinner with President Berlusconi, by Minister Salvini representing also the Movimento 5 Stars, had a partial holding, so much so that in the final outcome of the vote some votes were missing. But that is not all, Mr President. A very serious fact has happened: the 27 votes officially announced by President Barachini at the end of the debate are just enough for the election, the necessary ones are right, but this is not the actual date of that vote. This does not correspond to what happened in the polls. For the information we received in the short way, we believe that inside the seat there was an interpretive forcing: we believe that two of these 27 cards were to be cancelled, in fact, we believe that the voters of these two ballots voted in a certain way precisely because they wanted, they wanted those ballots to be cancelled. So, in fact, the votes valid at that session were 25 and President Foa, despite not even having the right to be again candidate, cannot be elected as president of RAI. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Then we simply asked President Barachini, already at the end of that difficult day, to have access to the documents to verify these cards. Then the assessments, authority and authority of President Barachini, with respect to merit, will remain such however. He denied access to the acts. Of course, it has been inspired by the Rules of Procedure with its interpretation, but it is not acceptable for Parliament to have any doubt that this election is the result of an electoral fraud. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We have the right to look at those files, Mr President. We have the right to do so, and we ask the President again.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u8	President Marcucci, I invite you to moderate the terms. On situations in which your party was not present you cannot make judgments based on simple assumptions, so why talk about fraud? Those are heavy words, very heavy words. I invite you to moderate the terms. [[Applause from the M5S, FI-BP, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups. Protests from the PD Group. Comments from Senator Bellanova.]] I wouldn't want the applause. Brogli is a heavy word.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u9	Mr President, let me finish this speech. Brogli is a heavy word. There is a very simple way to eliminate this word from this very bad story: check the tabs and we will understand if the cheating is there. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u10	In this regard, there is also a letter which you, Mr Marcucci, have sent me and with reference to this letter and to the comments you have made in this House today, I would like to reassure you that, in the forms that will be appropriate, I will have the opportunity to provide you with all the clarifications that you have requested. [[Senator Paragon points out that he wants to intervene]] MALPEZZI (PD). We want the cards. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Moavero Milanesi has asked for an early end to the sitting because he must attend a meeting of Ministers, so we have given the floor to President Marcucci but we do not want to start a debate on this point. Perhaps it will be possible to do so at another time, but now, because of the requirements attached to the Council of Ministers, after its information, the Minister will have to move away, as he had warned us in advance. Actually, he couldn't even have been here today.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u11	The next item is: Information by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation on developments in Libya I call the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Professor Moavero Milanesi.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u12	Mr President, Senators and Senators, I apologise because, as the President anticipated, I will have to leave after my speech. A meeting of Ministers (it is not really a Council of Ministers, but a meeting on economic issues) began more or less on time for this presentation in the Chamber, as some news agencies also announced. I will have to bring myself here, however, to maintain my commitment to this House, as requested, in order to present the report on Libya, which I regularly keep the Foreign Affairs Committees of both the Senate and the House informed of. Briefly, for schematic points, I try to summarize the situation. In recent weeks there have been a number of developments that have affected both the security of the already tribulated situation in Libya and the economic aspects. It has also been weeks - I am talking about the last month and a half - characterized by a series of intense contacts held by the President of the Council, by me and by other members of the Government with Libya and with the actors of the Libyan scenario. I am referring first of all to the representatives of the Government recognized by the international community, President Sarraj and Foreign Minister Siala, and to the UN envoy Salamé. I also think of Vice President Maitig, who has recently come to Rome and with whom we have frequent relations. I also went - as I think you already know - to Cyrenaica, Benghazi, to meet the Field Marshal Haftar. Last week, at the General Assembly of the United Nations, we had a series of further meetings (I am always speaking in the plural, referring in particular to the President of the Council and myself), taking advantage of the presence of many international leaders in New York for the UN week. I believe that the principles to which we are sticking to the Libyan scenario are known to you all, but useful to recapture and remember. The first concerns the full recognition on our part, as Italy, of the need to assume responsibility by the protagonists of the Libyan scenario, the institutions and the people themselves of Libya. I am referring to what, with an English expression (in my opinion even a little 'forgiving) is called ownership and which I quote because maybe there are those who are used to certain terminologies. Ownership means assuming responsibility that it is right for the people and institutions of a state to have on their reality and on their future. This is the first great principle. The second principle to which we adhere is that of dialogue with all the reliable interlocutors of the Libyan scenario and first and foremost with the representatives of the Government recognized by the international community. This last thing also seems obvious, it is relatively obvious in a difficult situation, but it is important to remember it, because, as Italy, we must always move in a context of principles of international law in which we have always recognized ourselves, particularly in the course of our republican history. The third principle is that of the centrality of the United Nations. There is a special UN mission, with a special representative, the Lebanese Salamé, who works in the Libyan scenario and has prepared a plan, a path of the various things to do that is also going to review. Mr Salamé is in Tripoli and I would like to point out that he has remained there during the week of the United Nations General Assembly, just as a signal to the civilian population of the UN delegate's presence, a signal that I believe we all understand is perceived as reassuring. We are therefore talking about a person who not only has a very important and crucial assignment, but is and operates on the ground. Another principle we adhere to is the need to ensure as much cohesion as possible in relations between the international community, the States of the international community (i.e. all the various countries of the world) and Libya. Even here, it seems that they are all obvious things, but let us bear in mind - I do not think anyone in this House escapes - that these states, which are perhaps all cooperative and also full of good intentions for a peace and stabilisation process, then there is some competition, for example, in terms of economic influence (to mention the most frequent one). Therefore, we must maintain a relationship that allows this mixture of cooperation and competition to work best and not to the detriment of the interests of Libya and its people. I would also like to recall the importance of strengthening our bilateral relationship with Libya, which has been urged by several parties and by all parts of the Libyan scenario that I have met. Let's also say this: there is an opening and a desire for Italian presence, seen as a presence that can facilitate. Of course, there is then the normal reaction of distrust when certain presences (possibly even ours) can be perceived, by this or this other side, as antithetic; in such a moving scenario, it is more than normal. The third element that I would like to bring to your attention is that in Libya, on the ground, there is a situation of fragility from the point of view of security, precisely of material security, the one to which we, in the most normal countries, are totally accustomed. As far as material security is concerned, we have seen the emergence of armed conflicts, we have seen a number of ceasefires, truce agreements and so on. It is a situation that has peaks of criticality, especially in the area of the city of Tripoli, area in which moreover is concentrated a large part of the urban population and the population of Libya itself. Compared to this we as Italy, we are totally in support of the efforts of the United Nations and everything else for the truce and for the consolidation of it. Like every truce, this is sometimes interrupted; we hope that the last agreements reached on 23 September will be able to have a longer hold, but the situation remains fragile and it is also important to ensure that the exit from the urban area of Tripoli of certain militias, which were not part of that territory as a habitual origin, both and become a permanent acquisition, so that the cessation of hostilities can be consolidated and that the agreements for the security of the Libyan capital can be fully implemented and become fully functional. This is not only from the point of view of the principle itself and the material importance of security, but also because - let us never forget - when there are these armed clashes, as well as there are victims between the militias and the fighting troops, there are numerous acts of material violence on the civilian populations, which are then the part to which we must pay more attention from the point of view of the civilization of fundamental rights and the humanitarian principles that we own, also as an Italian position. The fourth element to your attention is that of internal political developments in Libya. As you know, in the agreements that had been concluded at the meetings in Paris a few months ago the idea of not only having elections, which are the culmination of a process of democratic stabilisation of any country and people, but above all of establishing an election date, which had been set at 10 December and basically agreed, or at least not denied, by the parties that had been agreed in Paris. With regard to this date, our position, as Italy and as an Italian Government, has always been that of course we saw the elections as an indispensable moment but, precisely as an indispensable moment and crowning of a democratic process that calls a people to express themselves on its institutions and its future, we believed that these should take place in clear constitutional and legislative conditions and in conditions of full legitimacy, credibility and transparency, in order to have in this way the desired effect. So for us it could be December 10th, but also December 9th, 11th or more probably another date; it was not important the question of the date, but it was important that we get there in the best conditions. Among the conditions, it was essential for the Libyan Parliament, which meets in the city of Tobruk, to express itself on the constitutional framework (this also required a referendum) and to issue an electoral law under which the elections would be held. Several sessions have been empty, despite the preannouncements of the Libyan Parliament, and only recently an agreement has been reached, under conditions of voting in part contested, because the quorum has been achieved through signatures collected even among those who were not present (in short, a complex situation). In any case, there would be the first basic conditions, but only recently. We think that the rest of the path should be built on this. Of course, I repeat, no one has ever questioned the Italian Government and, I would say, from Italy, that the elections should be held, but we believe that they must be kept in the correct conditions and it is clear that we have had, over the weeks and months behind us, a position which was not exactly in line with the French position. I'll come back to that. The fifth element that I would like to bring to your attention concerns issues related to the economy of Libya, which is also very much based on oil extraction. The country has an economy with important potentials that, however, have been largely put in crisis by the conflict situation that has existed for a long time now. For us it has always been essential - and the position of the Italian Government has always been very clear in this regard - that the central unitary institutions of Libya, in particular the Central Bank for the economic and financial part and the National Oil and Gas Company, the so-called NOC, remain central institutions united with the full approval and guarantee of the UN. We are committed to this. We are also committed to supporting a reform package that was adopted on 12 September by the Presidential Council and then, by the High Council of State, the Upper House of Libya, if we want to see it in a kind of constitutional scheme that is more familiar to us, and by the Central Bank. This package of reforms includes, in particular, four elements: a foreign currency purchase fee to re-align the exchange rate (important issue in Libya as elsewhere, in order to maintain fair foreign exchange purchase rates); a reduction in government subsidies on fuel; an increase of $1,000 in the annual government allowance for Libyan families (we can well understand the situation in which much of the civilian population is involved); an increase in contributions to medical and university expenses. These elements are part of fundamental reform attempts to bring Libya's situation closer to normal as much as possible. Therefore, the aspect of economic reforms, recommended by the United Nations and the context of the international community, is also very important in order to bring about correct situations in Libya, which are part of the definable process of normalization and stabilisation. The sixth element is the international political process. We have had important elements from various meetings, in particular, as I said, in the margins of the United Nations General Assembly last week, in which a series of meetings dedicated to Libya were held, with the participation in videoconference of the UN envoy Salamè. I had bilateral meetings with the Foreign Ministers of France, the Arab Emirates, Qatar, Morocco, Egypt, the Secretary-General of the Arab League and the Secretary of the African Union. These were all occasions which allowed us to feel a substantial desire to work for the solution, although there were differences of opinion among some of the interlocutors I have just mentioned. If I were to search through what was collected, I would see five common denominator points. The first is that everyone is in favour of assistance, support, support for the action of UN delegate Salamè. It is important, because if he has the recognition of the various parties involved, he can carry out the process as well as possible. The second point is the essentiality of bringing security back to Tripoli, which means the end of armed clashes, the maintenance of the truce and so on. The third common denominator is to keep the prospect of elections alive. I repeat: even if the date of 10 December, as it now seems rather ineluctable, should not be respected, this does not mean at all that the elections are setting or are going "fading" to use a term of the photograph of the past. In fact, the idea of elections must remain a firm point, because that is where Libyans will speak about their future. The electoral transition is essential for a definitive stabilisation. The fourth point, which I have already mentioned, concerns the implementation of economic reforms and the preservation of the common institutions. Finally, the fifth point concerns the attempt to put an end as much as possible to the perception, often present and which I have gathered from various interlocutors with diversified positions, that these positions - which I define as diversified - are dynamically conflicting. There is dialectic (no one denies it and probably it is also good that there is dialectic, because no one can claim to have the monopoly of solution or reason), but this dialectic is not and must not be perceived as a dramatic divergence of positions. This is particularly true - and I would like to point out this, also in the light of a recent breakfast, as I mentioned, in New York with the French Foreign Minister - in the positions between Italy and France: we have some different points of view (on the other hand we do not only have them on Libya) and this leads to a certain dialectical exchange. This does not mean, however, that, first of all, that we are constantly talking to the French and, secondly, that we are willing to arrive at a solution. With regard to this element, without taking anything away from what has happened in the past on other Libyan issues (on which we can have points of view not exactly matching), I would like to confirm that there is no competition or a fierce and conflicting rivalry (in a peaceful sense, but still of opposition) between us and the French. Of course, we care very much about the relationship with the United States and we have seen, as the President-in-Office of the Council has said several times, even publicly, and as he has told me, particularly after further talks in New York with President Trump, that there is an American will to support Italian action within the Libyan scenario and, more broadly, within the Mediterranean: we can count on this. Among other things, I would like to point out that, even today, during NATO meetings in Brussels, we have confirmed our commitment to a reorientation of the Atlantic Alliance towards its southern flank, which means the Mediterranean and greater attention to a geographical area to which we attach special interest for obvious reasons. I will be in Moscow on Monday 8 October and I will meet the Foreign Minister of the Russian Federation, with whom I will also talk about Libya. I will talk to him, as we have talked with all the others for a long time, about the Conference for Libya, of which I am giving you some additional elements. The program is to hold a Conference for Libya - so not so much on Libya, I would like to say, as for Libya - to facilitate the ongoing process in that State. The Conference will be held in Italy on 12 and 13 November, with a day more dedicated to the Libyan interlocutors and to the discussion that we will try to facilitate between them around the table and another day that will see instead the presence of numerous protagonists of the international community. The Conference will be held in Palermo, Sicily, because the idea was that it would be held in Italian land, in an area also close to the Libyan scenery; not in the Capital of Italy, but in an important Italian city of a Region geopolitically particularly attentive to what happens on the other side of the Mediterranean. In this sense, we also want to underline what I said to you with a play of words, that is, that the Conference is for Libya and not on Libya in the capital of a State that thinks it has who knows what a miraculous recipe to solve problems, just to try to facilitate. The objective is therefore to facilitate the process of security in Libya. The main interlocutors of the Libyan scenario will be invited, starting naturally with those I have already mentioned and which I have already met: first of all, the Government recognized by the international community. We had confirmation yesterday of the interest and presence of the Marshal of field Haftar and there will of course also be other interlocutors of the complex scenario. We will invite neighboring countries, neighboring countries for affinities of populations. We will invite the European countries most interested in what is happening in Libya; of course, we will invite the permanent members of the United Nations Security Council: the United States, China, Russia, as well as the other two European members who will be present on a double basis. There will be both Saudi Arabia and Egypt, Turkey, Arab Emirates, Qatar; France, Germany, Spain, Morocco, Tunisia and the United Kingdom. There will be representatives of the European Union, the United Nations, the Arab League, the African Union, Canada, Chad, China and Algeria. There will be Jordan, Malta, Sudan. In short, will be present the representatives of the entire geography that is found to have a geopolitical interest, or more eminently of international role, to the Libyan scenario. The aim is to facilitate dialogue: it seems to be a minimal objective but in reality, when you think of armed clashes in Tripoli, it is not. We would like to remain within the principle of complete Libyan self-determination, which is clearly a fundamental point, their responsibility; it is also extremely important that there is an inclusive approach. The objective is to identify the stages of the stabilisation process. In this case, in particular, if it is further likely that the elections will not be held at the expected date, we would like to avoid setting other dates, but to highlight the various stages that will have to be followed in order to arrive at the fundamental time of the elections. Therefore, it will not be a conference that imposes deadlines or such tasks as a conference in which those directly concerned will be able to give themselves a common agenda and identify the steps. Finally, the last point I would like to make with you is the operation of our embassy in Tripoli. You know that we are among the few countries that have an embassy open in Tripoli, and our embassy is and has always been operational, even if, for security reasons, during the period of the clashes, as is generally the case in these cases, we have reduced the staff. However, in addition to military personnel for security reasons, civilian personnel are also present who carry out the normal practices of the embassy. The period of rise of the clashes in the area of Tripoli had been preceded by an unideal situation, as regards the person of our ambassador in Tripoli, who had followed an interview given to Libyan television in Arabic by the same ambassador, during which a misunderstanding had arisen that had caused reactions both at the level of demonstrations and at the level of position taken by the various interlocutors of the various Libyan authorities. I would like to point out that these critical positions have been expressed by all the parties to the Libyan scenario with which we have had contacts, starting (as first to react) by the authorities of the Government recognized by the international community: President Sarraj, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the other interlocutors. As a result of this, having expressed doubts, confirmed also by the competent Italian authorities, about the safety of the person of our ambassador, he returned to Italy, where, having not changed the situation just described, he still finds himself at present. Of course, this is not a good situation at a time when we need to be fully operational, but it has come to be determined and we have had to take note of it. However, I repeat, the embassy is operational and the conference will be held. In particular, Deputy Minister Emanuela Del Re, now present in the Chamber (which will replace me when unfortunately I have to leave), will work closely in the organisation of the Conference, including in the context of the various contacts that will be necessary at the higher operational political level to compare the texts, find the various points of connection and arrive at a solution. I hope this will be useful to you for further reflection. I repeat, before this House and you, Mr President, my personal commitment, as Minister of the Republic, to report regularly to this House, if necessary, and to the parliamentary committees; this applies to this as well as to the other branch of Parliament, in respect of which I maintain full information whenever it is requested and desired. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az and Senator Urso]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u13	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u14	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Secondary Education "Giuseppe Solimene" in Lavello, in the province of Potenza, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u15	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation. Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u16	Mr President, frankly, it is not very easy to speak now. We have heard from the always courteous and more than intelligent - I am his great admirer - Minister Moavero Milanesi a long report of which, however, of real interest I can synthesize only two sentences. The rest, in fact, are all things that we know, that have been said and laughed at; right things, that are the photography of reality, but nothing more and nothing less. On the contrary, it would have to be said that perhaps it is necessary to ask these informations to the Ministers when there really is some new element, otherwise we always hear ourselves repeating the same things that we know as menadito. The Minister, in the end, dropped a sentence with diplomacy: he spoke with his French colleague, with whom, as you know, we also have different ideas on this dossier and yet there is the will to speak to us, to deepen. That's all I want to say: what are we talking about? We are heading towards the Palermo Conference, but what unfortunately dramatically - because it cannot be minimized - we are told today is that there is still a completely different view between Italians and French on this dossier. If I have to decrypt the formalities and diplomacy, always lovable, of Minister Moavero Milanesi, I take the deduction that the French, who in recent years have rowed in the opposite direction, pro-Haftar, together with Egypt and other reasoned actors, continue to do so. But we are starting a fantastic Conference, so only the list of countries generates a exhaustion: only to say how many countries will be present at the Conference in Palermo one is so tired that it can no longer continue, there are all. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but international politics is for celebrations, for rhetoric, for statements of general will and for results. We are going to a conference and now we know that among the main actors of this affair, all in all, we still think differently. Let it be clear that it is certainly not the fault of the Italian Government. I am not a demagogue who comes here to explain that the Libyan problem is the fault of Count, Di Maio or Salvini, who have nothing to do with it. Unfortunately, this is a dossier that we have been administering for years and in which we have seen for years that there are several parts in comedy, that are not acceptable. The fact that the two main players in the region, namely Italy and France, think differently about this dossier makes any effort useless: this is indeed a matter of great concern. I address in particular to the Deputy Minister who has the ability to listen to the debate (of course Minister Moavero Milanesi has other responsibilities at the moment and we thank him because he is always present in Parliament when needed). Let me say that this Ambassador's story is also unique: we are the only ones who have an embassy open in Tripoli and who can boast, compared to other countries, the fact that they have a fully operational embassy. The operation is ensured twenty-four hours a day, but, having given the ambassador an interview misplaced or misinterpreted (however wrong, given the effect), he had to repair quickly in Italy. He will participate in the elaboration of the documents of the Conference of Palermo, but it is better that he does not return to Libya, because all the actors have explained that, basically - I would use a sentence that perhaps is more suitable for when I talk to my son, because it is a bit 'dozenly - it is not that he has really guessed this interview on Libyan television. This is unacceptable, it is truly unacceptable. I estimate this diplomat, I know him and I think he is a good diplomat, but he cannot remain at the head of an open embassy without him: the ambassador is in Rome and the embassy is open and fully operational. I therefore think that the Government has a responsibility to provide operational guidance on the ground, because there are no employees on the ground, but the Ambassador is there first. If the ambassador cannot go there because of problems that do not correspond to his will - I would like to make it clear that no one is questioning the ambassador, who is a very good person - then replace the ambassador, give him other responsibilities and send someone who can go there. I would add no more, because we have discovered what we knew, namely that with France there is not yet a complete dossier, not even in preparation for our Palermo Conference, to which everyone will come. Let me then talk about the United States and then I shall finish, Mr President. It is obvious that the United States does not care at all, at this moment, about the Libyan issue: they put this dossier at the bottom, among the moldy papers of the State Department, because they have other priorities. On the other hand, seeing Trump's policy, it is no wonder that Libya is not a priority and this makes our position even more difficult. We have to worry: of course, as a small person and as a member of this Parliament, I assure you that for me, in a case like this, there are no majorities and oppositions: we are all together, because unfortunately we are all in a great difficulty. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), FI-BP and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u17	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u18	Mr President, I would like to remind myself that we had asked for this information - the Minister knows this - in a situation in which we were witnessing a precipitate of events in Libya. The Minister has reported now and of course it is fine, but certainly the Minister's information has not been able to reassure us that much. Why, Mr President, colleagues and Vice-Minister? Because after seven years of the wretched intervention and war in Libya, which - I would like to remind you here - was decided for reasons that had nothing to do with the democratic anxiety to lay down a dictator, unfortunately - alas - of crisis in crisis no progress was made towards a real hope and process of stabilisation. Even the truce reached a month ago thanks also to the mediation of the UN, as we know, is very fragile and has been violated repeatedly; the one concluded in Tripoli last Wednesday is even more so. Honestly about the possibility of an agreement between those we can define as true warlords and among armed militias, even considering the words that the Minister wanted to give us as reassurance, the reality is somewhat different in my opinion. Among other things, a few days ago, UN envoy Ghassan Salamé made it clear - as the Minister also confirmed - that it might not be possible to hold the elections on the scheduled date of 10 December. Moreover, these elections, which have been strongly desired by France - it is good that we say so among ourselves - have a connotation very linked to the faction of General Haftar, therefore in contrast with the Government of Tripoli, and would still be destined to resolve nothing: they could only perpetuate the feud between the two main factions leaving - this is the problem of Libya - the territory completely in the hands of the armed militias that control it, often without recognizing one or the other of the two main fronts. For the interests of our country - and now I am focusing on the interest of Italy - nothing, as we have seen in these seven years, is more dangerous than this instability, and the permanent destabilisation of Libya we pay - the Minister mentioned our economic interests in the field of energy - on immigration policies and - on this I will return - with the continuous and constant injury of human rights that takes place in Libya. Our interest, like Italy as well as as women and men who love peace, is to restore stability in Libya: to achieve multilateral disarmament of militias in order to reach a real pact among all forces in the field. Our interest as a country is not to have someone available to monitor the refugee camps (which, as we know, are real lagers) or to entrust the control of the maritime borders; our interest is the establishment of a solid and democratic state with which we can dialogue and make agreements in an area of recognition and constitution of a state. Unfortunately, this peace process was hindered by the same logic that caused destabilization seven years ago: the contrast between the interests of different European countries that are blowing fire to the sole search for their own advantages. These logics obviously inspire the forcing of Haftar supported by France on the December elections, but I also warn about the Conference to be held in Palermo on 12 and 13 November, because in my opinion there is a strong risk, even if managed with greater prudence and less adventurism, that it too will end up in nothing. The Minister said that he had assurances from many countries about support for UN action; I believe that we should push even more on this, because it will not be supporting one side against the other that will come out of the tragedy in Libya, but only and only strengthening the action of the UN. There is a great absentee, once again sorry to say so, because precisely to prevent the interests of the European countries (including ours) opposed to France from leading to a solution, it was necessary for the European Union to take very strong action: it is not only that the Union can assist in the struggle of the various countries over their interests. I therefore think - and this is our position - that, on the other hand, Italy, too, should have a strong call at the November Conference for collective action by the European Union as such to support the UN's action even more strongly. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u20	Mr President, first of all, we want to acknowledge and acknowledge to Minister Moavero Milanesi his commitment, which has been codified several times in this House and in the Commission and the long list of activities carried out in recent weeks, to recover the lost ground. Indeed, there is no doubt that Italy has been swept away by two events. The first is the Conference organized inappropriately by France while Italy was deprived of a Government: France has tried to impose, for the umpteenth time, on Libya and other European and international partners, its strategic interest and its will on that country. The second event is what happened not by chance a few weeks ago with the clashes in Tripoli, of which the motivation is still not clear, which have risked putting our country totally out of play. Faced with these two events, Minister Moavero Milanesi did well to try to recover with a series of international meetings (and we hope, being a patriotic party, that you will succeed in the goal), first by changing the political line of our country with the meeting with General Haftar (which is not a random thing, but a substantial change of Italian politics towards the various Libyan partners) and also involving the other actor who had felt excluded from our action. We acknowledge that this was a wise choice, not only necessary. We also acknowledge that we have involved all possible subjects in the attempt to foil the new French assault: it has done well, therefore, in the meetings obtained during the General Assembly of the United Nations, as well as in the convening of this Conference for Libya, which, however, participate - as Senator Casini said before in an appropriate way - many, too many contenders or participants. When the participants are too many, it is also difficult to reach an understanding: the multitude brings out weakness. There is no doubt about this and it is now recognised by all of us and we are pleased that today all the political parties in this Parliament - and I also hope those who will speak shortly afterwards - are clear on one point: Italy's priority strategic interests today in that theatre are different from those in France. France moved seven years ago and then repeatedly in these seven years (the last time in May) against Italian interests, against Libyan interests (showing what it has triggered) and against the interests of Europe. We also need the representative of the European Government, among other things indicated by the Italian Government, the European Foreign Minister, Mrs Mogherini, to make his voice heard, all the more in this context, in which the interests of Europe and the interests of Italy do not seem to converge with those of a European country that moves in contempt of the general interests and those of our country. That is why we believe that it is important in these weeks, before the Libya Conference, to clarify this aspect. The fact that I have clarified here in the national parliament and that I have today, unlike seven years ago and even some time ago, the same feeling about the main and priority contender in that country is a good starting point for developing a shared foreign policy (what we are asking of this Government and this Parliament), all the more so where the strategic interests of the country are threatened repeatedly, as has been stated in recent years. In shared foreign policy, the national interest must be central, which obviously defends itself today by pursuing the process of peace in Libya with clarity. The government has a few weeks to clarify with France what the European position should be. With regard to this, the European Union must make itself heard. While today we are happy with the Government for the Peace Conference for Libya on 12 and 13 November, we would not like to find ourselves on 14 November to say that the objective has been failed. When, in fact, a peace conference is convened in Palermo of that type with all those international partners, the objective cannot fail because the goal is very important, Italy exposes itself a lot and in that theatre we cannot lose further blows. That is why we are asking the Government to commit itself in these weeks on the bottom line. It is not Russia, Egypt, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United States, Canada, Germany, but France. This clarification must be made so that the Conference is successful and Italy can resume its respected role in the Mediterranean. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u21	Senator Alfieri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u22	Mr President, in the past month, we have unfortunately witnessed a rise in the episodes of violence and real civil war. However, the attack of the Seventh Brigade of Tarhuna is a symptom of a deeper disease that has its origins in the lack of agreement on the division of energy resources and on the control of the territory. In the final analysis, I would say that the essential element of statehood, i.e. the monopoly of the use of force, is missing. We must start from there because, if we do not deal with this issue, we can organise all the conferences we want but we will never achieve a lasting result. I was then only partially satisfied with the list of those invited to the Conference of the Minister, which we had already heard: he did not discuss the critical issues - except for the words that President Casini pointed out - and the difficulties with France. It must say very clearly what the objectives are, with what actions and what instruments. I say this because France has played its cards and still insists on the date of 10 December; it knows very well that it would need a constitutional referendum and is waiting to revise its priorities. At the same time, it is true that the United States is a stand-by actor, but the former embassy official in Tripoli, now appointed as the United Nations Deputy Representative in Libya, has a plan that has nothing to do with the plan presented by Salamé. This is the first problem that is evident in the words of Minister Moavero Milanesi: we must support Salamé, but his deputy representative speaks of a plan B that does not even foresee the constitutional referendum, but of the parliamentary elections with the current electoral law, and then cancel the resolution that provided for the legitimacy of the Libyan institutions. In short, there is much confusion and then, because it is not just a conference where rhetoric and the celebration of a rite prevail, but something effective, we must go to the heart of the problem and, in order to be able to find ourselves in Parliament, the heart of the problem is the recognition of forces in the field, political recognition of militias. We must try to put in place a programme of real disarmament, demobilization and reintegration, as has been done in other countries; if we do not address the issue of land control, the political recognition of those who control it, we put in the field of conferences that risk being a place where we talk only about ourselves. This is the fundamental point of departure and must be done by bringing together the main actors, starting from France, the United States and the European Union. This applies to the control of the internal and even external territory. We think of Niger, which is subjected to pressure on several fronts: Boko Haram, from Nigeria, through Lake Chad, enters Niger, the same thing from Mali with the presence of Al Qaeda, not to mention the growth of Salafist groups always in Niger. Therefore, a strong Italian presence is needed in that country. The previous government invested in the embassy in Niamey and started a mission in that country; so we want to understand if the current Executive wants to move forward, it also wants to review the rules of engagement, but an investment has been made. At the moment we in Niger are not there, and here too we have to agree with France on instruments. The question of the ambassador must also be resolved if we are to be protagonists. The other day the press agencies beat the news of a meeting held in Tunis by al Mishri, president of the High Libyan Council, with the main ambassadors of the Western countries and Italy was not there because Ambassador Perrone was not present. The full functionality of our embassy is therefore necessary; moreover, I would say, along with this, that representatives of the Government do not feed voices on alleged substitutions of the top of our security services because from this point of view we risk big. The credibility of our security services is crucial in an area like that. Finally, allow me to make a joke about cooperation with Libya on migration flows. In July 2017, under the pressure of the government Gentiloni Silveri, we moved on two sides: agreement with the tribes to stop the trafficking of human beings and migratory flows and, on the other, the opening of the centers of stay opening up to the control of international organizations. Today the new Government backs, withdraws, brings back the security devices of our country; the search and rescue area (SAR) of Libya expands with a deterrent not only towards the non-governmental organizations, but also towards the ships of Frontex, even (as we have seen in the case of the ship Diciotti) towards the Libyan Coast Guard. Now the results presented yesterday by the Institute for International Political Studies (ISPI), by re-elaborating the data of the International Organization for Migration (IOM), are merciless, not to say dramatic: with Minniti the landings have decreased by 78 percent and 72 percent also the deaths have decreased; with Salvini the landings have decreased by 48 percent, but the deaths have increased by 147 percent, almost 900 people in 4 months. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Who knows Di Maio, who called us political assassins for jobs act precisely on the days when unemployment goes below 10%, as Salvini's policies of his own government will define. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I therefore end with an appeal to Minister Moavero Milanesi. We are thinning that subtle line - we say it with all the moderation of the case - between being a man of state to protect the traditional lines of our country's foreign policy and being instead the fig leaf of policies that bring some more likes on Facebook, but isolate us in the international community, with serious risks for the stability and security of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u23	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Emanuele. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u24	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Minister for the willingness he has shown so far and which he is confirming in his information regarding the issue of Libya; availability which he has shown both in this House today and in the hearings in the Commissions which have given us Members of Parliament the opportunity to fulfil our role. The situation that has described us today and in the recent past certainly leads to the development of many reflections that must lead, with the internal confrontation, to concur to determine the line that Italy must have in the relations with the Libyan scenario; this, obviously, apart from easy internal political exploitations. The situation of Libyan political instability, as confirmed also by the agencies that follow each other day, must be absolutely brought back to ordinary canons, so as to allow an equally ordinary examination of internal and foreign problems. On the one hand, the Libyan question, as has been rightly outlined, cannot be addressed without a strengthening of the Italian position to act, according to the uses of diplomacy, as a pro-active agent for the bony composition of mutual claims. On this point, the Minister reassured us today, confirming the Palermo Conference that, unlike what others have said, we consider an important point, fundamental because yes, it was a moment of real exchange in order to try to achieve a concrete solution. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] On the other hand, we cannot be silent as foreign influences, outside the recalled diplomatic tables, must be limited or in any case coordinated with the strengthening of the work of the United Nations, so as to really allow a consolidation of those internal balances and thus finally give stability to the whole country. In this general context, it should be stressed and recalled that the stalemate of this situation, which is likely to continue further, is only jeopardising, as confirmed by the Minister also today, the scheduled internal elections which, according to a democratic process, should lead to definitive internal stabilisation. We know that this path, as set out at the Paris Summit on 29 May, is now in danger. The Minister confirmed that today. In this general context, it must be stressed that in this impasse we have an obligation to try to bring order where this is lacking according to international tasks and roles. Within this framework, internal political exploitations should be lost, political exploitations by oppositions that often call for smokey and idealist solutions that protect, yes, respect for human rights but that from a pragmatic point of view are only palliative and do nothing but fuel tensions. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Today we must realize that to exploit the Libyan question in order only to justify the unconditional and unjustified trafficking of human beings towards our country, is a profoundly wrong idea, first of all for the people who come from the African continent. From this point of view, Minister Moavero Milanesi is doing well to underline the discussion debate, as he said in the past during the hearings, with the whole College of Ministers, so that we can share ideas and solutions. I cannot accept, however, that even in the hearings there have been attacks that are manifestly unjustified and absolutely provocative by minority members with the sole aim of reaffirming an instrumental position contrary to the government's policy. Perhaps, however, we must reset everything in this debate. Let's start from simple concepts and clear objectives, so that we can understand and focus on the goal that the Italian Government must pursue and achieve. First of all, we must ensure that diplomatic work is truly productive and that the composition of the Libyan clashes is concretely made possible, so that instability stops, because this is the basic concept. If we can give stability to a country, we can also help the population in this same country and if we can help it through organized, effective and transparent structures, we have achieved the result of enforcing those human rights that are now used only as a pretext to feed a dirty market and trafficking in human beings. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But do we think that justifying Libyan political instability through unconditional acceptance is the solution? No, we really don't. We cannot think of justifying illegal immigration in Italy and throughout Europe by saying that it serves to save lives. Instead, we have the categorical, if not moral, imperative to bring help without creating a greater evil than what we want to cure. We have already seen how in recent times so-called unilateral humanitarian interventions, carried out with the armed forces by certain European partners, have, in practice, aggravated the situation, creating only further injustices and denial of fundamental human rights. Do we really think diplomacy can be useful with alternating current? Today, the Italian State is faced with a very difficult task, even for the faults of others, but it could be much easier if Europe were to have a greater impact on foreign policy. This, however, is slow to come. Where this is lacking, then we must bear the burden of facilitating the stabilisation of Libya. We owe this first of all to respect for the human lives that we want to safeguard, so that those who today become - forcefully and forcefully - immigrants in Europe can be free citizens, each in his own country and in his own nation. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u25	She's registered to speak Senator Craxi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u26	Mr President, before I speak, I would like to make a motion for a resolution on Members of Parliament. We are grateful to the always courteous Minister Moavero Milanesi for his presence, but we are here not only to listen, but also to be heard. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Forza Italia is vigilant and will always ensure that this institution, which is one of the cornerstones of our democracy, is not emptied. I understand the needs of the government, but I hope that such a lack of institutional politeness will not happen again. Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is completely superfluous to reiterate the importance that the Libyan game has for our country and for the Mediterranean area all. It is not only because of the migration issue, which is at the heart of all of us, but also and above all because of the wider defence of our interests, which it would be entirely wrong to relegate to the single issue of flows. The entire Libyan game, in fact, is a strategic one to redefine our presence in the Mediterranean as a regional force that must be characterized, different from recent years and other European partners, as a force of peace, dialogue and development shared in the Euro-Mediterranean area. What happened and what happened in Libya at this time, which - let us never forget - is one of the doors to Africa, is a demonstration of how it serves, today more than ever, a European political Europe and a European foreign policy, which will not be the attacks on the European Union to build, but a project that the Government seems not to care about. If we do not clarify between European partners - firstly, we and France - we will hardly be in charge of this game and we will condemn Libya and the whole area to a long season of chaos. Let us consider this necessary, because it is difficult to theorize, even with all the rhetoric in this Government, that Libya is now among the strategic interests of Trumpian America. Moreover, despite President Conte's adverts, it has not yet been understood whether the Trump will be present at the Conference on Libya. The latest events we are witnessing are proof of the distortions and errors that have characterized the Libyan peace process and the creation of a state entity: errors - we must tell ourselves with sincerity - to which, as a country, we are not strangers. Although we consider it a mistake to celebrate elections in Libya on 10 December next, as prefigured under dictation last May in Paris and, moreover, as stated yesterday by the UN envoy to Libya Salamé, we consider equally risky, especially on the basis of recent experiences, every choice and initiative that can make our country appear a partisan actor, not third, among the factions in the field. It is a mistake that we have already made in the past, after the fall of Gaddafi, and that has not made our fortunes, nor of Libya. For this reason, we appreciated the attempt by Minister Moavero Milanesi to engage in a dialogue with General Haftar. This appreciation cannot, however, concern the government's silences on the demands of the southern tribes, from the Tebu to the Awlad Suleiman, passing through the Tuaregs. Yet, the Libyan Tuaregs, at the mouth of leader Moulay Kamidi, asked the Italian Government to offer concrete aid to the South. Like, there are very recent accusations, made by all the tribes of the South to our Government and the Libyan Government supported by us, of lack of seriousness and sincerity in the application of the agreement signed in Rome in May 2017. In front of these requests Italy remained silent. But the Libyan South is strategic for us. It is the area from which migrants flow, where important energy matches are played and where the situation today is very serious, especially in Sebha, the main city of Fezzan, where armed Chadian and Sudanese groups have taken control of some areas for illicit trafficking. So what do we do? We declare war on human traffickers and then, when from where they set up their criminal businesses, we ask for help, don't we answer? I remember all this precisely in these hours, in which talks are being held to give a new form and new faces to the Presidential Council, in order to have clear our interests, our role and the direction that, like Italy, we must undertake, especially in view of the International Conference on Libya scheduled for mid-November in Palermo, which the Government intends to promote. It is an initiative of which it is necessary to define the contours and objectives; Minister Moavero Milanesi has not explained them to us today. We have all read these days about the rumors that talk about the conditions that General Haftar would have put in place to participate in the Conference. However, we would not want that, in order to have at that table Haftar, that we have long not recognized, perhaps for a nice photo opportunity, we comply with all his requests, some risky - I think of the absence of groups in Tripoli (which could favor a military invasion) - and other humiliating, such as the withdrawal of our ambassador. The result would be neither useful nor dignified, but it would give Italy the idea of an ondivary and confused country. We therefore need clarity, but to this end they do not help the positions of some members of the Government, who exclude a priori any of our military presence in Libya (and in Libya the Italian military are already there), especially after yesterday's request of Tripoli to the UN. In Libya the military force counts and many militias are ready to put themselves with the strongest, even if we cannot think of strengthening a weak position, as appears that of Sarraj, with the sole use of force. The road is therefore narrow. But at the conference table, at a very smoky state, we need an effort to share and dialogue, which is of frank interest, as well as the Libyan parties, to the other European actors (in this sense the German Foreign Minister is right). The annals are full of useless conferences; we have to work not to add another one. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u27	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u28	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today we have also seen a new page in Italian policy, because Minister Moavero Milanesi has followed up on what has been our requests in other situations and has readily given his willingness to come and report to the House, in our view of many new developments in the Libyan scenario. But this is just one of the last acts of the Government of Change, of which I would like to highlight a few aspects. One, in particular, in my opinion is fundamental: I am referring to the fact that the Italian Government is looking at our borders towards Africa (which we have always said to be Europe's borders) with an absolutely new attitude. I would like to mention here only a few of the last events that have been carried out by our Government. On August 29, our vice-premier Di Maio visited Egypt. At the beginning of September - as we heard - Minister Moavero Milanesi was directly in Libya, in Benghazi, to speak with General Haftar. Last week, at the UN General Assembly, our Prime Minister Conte had a series of bilateral meetings with al-Sisi on the Egyptian situation. Minister Salvini has been repeatedly on African territories, not least the Tunisian one. This basically demonstrates a fundamental change of pace of the Italian Government, thanks precisely to the Government of change, because it had never seen an institutional frontal attack on such a problem; which certainly had not happened in recent years. This gives us a bit of the figure of how much the Government is attentive to the topic and how much it considers the central Libyan scenario for the situation and democratic stability of our country as well. It is clear that, as Minister Moavero Milanesi said, the situation in Libya is far from stable, but we have known this for years because we are not talking about Libya in general, but about Libya that we have inherited. A Libya that has been completely unstable since 2011. We said some time ago that in Tripoli alone there are about 87 factions fighting among them; then you understand what scenario we inherited. We discovered today that for a few hours there was the closure of the only airport that we find in Libya, the airport of Mitiga, which was closed three hours due to an attack occurred in the night, which seems to have been carried out by a new movement, by a new militia, which defines itself as the "young people of Tripoli." So it's a dynamic and evolving scenario. Today we have had a confirmation, and we have also learned an important novelty from the Minister. We have learned the date of the Conference in Palermo, and we have also understood its objective. I thank the Minister for providing us with this absolutely fundamental information. We have also understood the context, that is the actors who will be called to discuss and participate in the Palermo Peace Conference, which, rightly, the Minister has asked to carry out not in our capital, which is the seat of many important institutions, but precisely in the Region that is our frontier towards that scenario. I believe that this is an extremely important fact. Someone asked what the news was; gentlemen, the news is these: never in eight years had a Peace Conference on Libya been convened and we are doing so, calling the main actors of this scenario. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This will certainly only strengthen our hegemony on a certain area, which will certainly benefit not only us, but also in those territories. I hope, from the news coming from the ground, that Jordan can also be involved to some extent. I see my microphone flashing, and then, Mr President, I shall finish my speech. I, too, have a final phrase, as is customary, but contrary to my colleague Alfieri of the Democratic Party, I do not need to read it because I firmly believe in the words I say and therefore I do not need to read the phrase that was prepared for me. I believe that the Government of Change also passes from here, through a new way of doing foreign policy. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u29	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, whom I thank for being available.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u30	The next item is the debate on the draft law No 771, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Pellegrini Emanuele, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u31	Mr President, the House is called upon to examine the draft law already adopted by the House of Deputies on the ratification and enforcement of the Treaties and the related exchange of notes signed by Italy and the United Arab Emirates since September 2015, respectively on extradition and mutual assistance in criminal matters. The two bilateral agreements are part of the action to intensify and regulate international judicial cooperation relations with certain non-EU countries, which Italy has been pursuing for years, also because of the need to make more effective the fight against organised crime. (18.36) (Pellegrini Emanuele, rapporteur) Specifically, with the ratification of the two agreements under consideration, it is intended to contribute to a further and significant development of relations between Italy and the United Arab Emirates, through closer cooperation between the two countries in the field of cooperation and judicial assistance in criminal matters. The first of the two treaties under consideration, the one on extradition, done in Abu Dhabi in September 2015, supplemented by an exchange of notes on 27 November 2017 and 17 January 2018, and composed of 24 articles, is intended to allow the compulsory extradition, according to the rules and conditions indicated, of persons wanted who are in the territory of one of the two countries to give rise to a criminal trial or in order to allow the execution of a definitive conviction. The text provides that extradition shall be granted where the fact for which it is carried out or has been carried out in the requesting State is also provided for as a criminal offence by the legislation of the requested State, in accordance with the principle of double indictment. This principle, however, finds a temperament in tax matters, where it is provided that extradition may be granted even where the discipline of the requested State, in this matter, is different from that of the requesting State. The extradition of the case requires, moreover, that the offence for which it is carried out be punished by both States with the penalty of imprisonment for a period of at least one year, while the enforceable extradition requires that the remaining penalty still to be atonement corresponds to a minimum period of six months. The text also regulates the mandatory grounds for refusing extradition, including, inter alia, cases that have become established in international covenant disciplines, including those relating to offences punished by the requesting State with penalties prohibited by the law of the requested State, or where there is grounds for believing that the requested person may be subjected, for the offence which is the subject of an extradition application, to torture or to illegal and inhuman treatment. A compulsory refusal is also provided for where the offence for which extradition is sought is punishable by the death penalty under the law of the requesting State, except where the death penalty is not imposed on the requested person or, if already imposed, the requesting State undertakes not to execute it. In this regard, the exchange of notes between the two countries dating back to November 2017 and January 2018 and annexed to the Treaty, provides, in accordance with the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court in this matter, that the possibility of extradition in cases where the death penalty is provided is completely excluded, unless the requesting party adopts an irrevocable decision that would impose such a penalty in a different penalty, in full compliance with the order of the requested party. The Treaty also sets out the optional grounds for refusing extradition, which may relate to cases where the requested State claims jurisdiction over the offence which is the subject of an extradition request or is in criminal proceedings relating to the same criminal offence, or to humanitarian assessments in relation to the age and health conditions of the person to be delivered. The text, after having identified in the respective Ministries of Justice the central authorities responsible for implementing the Treaty, regulates the procedures and documents necessary for the submission of an extradition request, places a general prohibition on the re-extradition of the person delivered, lays down procedures for the surrender of the person and establishes that the settlement of interpretative or application disputes between the parties takes place through diplomatic consultation. The second Treaty covered by this draft law of ratification - the one on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters - consists of 25 articles and is intended to regulate bilateral criminal judicial assistance. The adoption of these rules has been imposed by the progressive extension of economic, commercial and financial relations between the two countries, which inevitably also brings with it the development of criminal phenomena involving both States and which make it necessary to prepare suitable instruments to ensure mutual and effective bilateral cooperation. The text spells out the parties' commitment to the widest possible legal assistance in criminal matters - and expressly in relation to tax and tax offences - including the search for and identification of persons, the service of documents and documents, the citation of persons involved in various criminal proceedings, the acquisition and transmission of evidence and information relating to accounts with banking and financial institutions, the taking of evidence or statements, the conduct and transmission of expert opinions, the carrying out of investigative activities, the execution of searches and seizures, the seizure, foreclosure and confiscation of the proceeds of the offence and the relevant things. The Treaty, which also provides for the exchange of information on criminal proceedings and convictions of citizens, as well as the possibility of giving rise to any form of assistance which is not contrary to the legislation of the requested State, therefore regulates the procedures for the formulation of requests for assistance, as well as the cases for the opposition of a refusal to such requests. Of particular importance, in this regard, is the provision that assistance cannot be refused solely because of the secrecy imposed by banks and similar financial institutions, or because of the fact that the offence is also considered tax-related. Further articles define the modalities for the execution of the application, for the notification of acts, for the taking of evidence or statements, for the transit of persons in detention, for the carrying out of searches and seizures relating to a criminal procedure. The draft law ratifying the two Treaties consists of four articles which have, respectively, the authorization to ratify, the order of implementation, the financial cover and the entry into force. The economic costs for Italy resulting from the implementation of the measure are estimated at EUR 40,000 per year, starting in 2018. The two Treaties in question do not present any profiles of incompatibility with existing national legislation or other international obligations entered into by our country. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u32	I declare the general discussion open. He is enlisted to speak Senator Jacob. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure concerns two treaties between Italy and the United Arab Emirates in judicial matters. The two Treaties form part of the instruments aimed at regulating cooperation between Italy and non-EU countries, with a view to improving international judicial cooperation and making the fight against crime more effective. In this case, a process of significant development of Italian-Emiratian relations is launched, which will allow a close and incisive collaboration between the two countries in the field of criminal judicial cooperation. The adoption of rules aimed at regulating the subject in a precise and precise way has been imposed by the current social reality, characterized by increasingly frequent and extensive relations between the two countries in each sector: from the economy to the world of finance, to trade, to migratory flows. The progressive intensification of relations inevitably also brings with it the development of criminal phenomena, involving both States and, therefore, the need to regulate uniformly the delivery procedures of persons who are subject to criminal proceedings or who have to serve a penalty and the provision of instruments to ensure mutual and effective cooperation. The agreements are part of a process of cooperation between Italy and the United Arab Emirates, which covers various sectors: as I said before, from the financial field to the economy, tourism and culture. It was and is necessary to add this piece of legal cooperation on extradition and, therefore, against transnational crime. It is a path that allows us to regulate and make more fluid the delivery procedures of people who are subject to criminal proceedings or who have to execute and serve a sentence. To date, 14 cases of Italian fugitives in the United Arab Emirates, which with this measure can be extradited and brought back to homeland... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u34	Colleagues, the fact that unanimity has been reached in the Commission should help us to listen more widely and not be an obstacle. So let us try to contain ourselves. Please continue your speech, Senator Jacob.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u35	I was saying that, to date, 14 cases of fugitive Italians, in fact, in the United Arab Emirates, that with this measure they can be extradited, brought back to the homeland and insured, therefore, to the Italian justice, putting an end to a phenomenon that has rightly created and aroused astonishment and indignation in our community, that is that those responsible for crimes would never pay the penalty. I believe that today we are waiting for one of our duties as elected members of the people. We restore the principles of legality and justice and also allow our companies that go to those countries the certainty of the law, which is the basis of any peaceful development, of any kind of relationship. Mr President, we in the Democratic Party support this measure, not only because we too have presented it, not only because it is the result of the work of the governments leading Renzi and then Gentiloni Silveri, but also because it is an important act against crime and mafias. It is a measure that is part of the wake of other important measures of the past legislature: from the law against the caporalate, to the laws to establish the crime of anti-money laundering, to tighten the vote of political-mafia exchange, to fight environmental crimes. For this reason, in our opinion, ratification is very important, not only to ensure the Italian justice of the figures who have fled, but also as an element of deterrent, because it is said that there is no longer, a few hours of flight, an oasis of futility; there is no longer the possibility of getting away with it. I shall conclude, Mr President, with the hope that this measure can be adopted with the broadest vote in the Senate. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u36	He is enrolled to speak Senator Bishops. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u37	Mr President, I am speaking only to reiterate the importance of these two fundamental treaties between our country and for the United Arab Emirates. These are treaties, on the one hand, for extradition and, on the other, for legal assistance. They are, in my opinion, important and fundamental because some states were seen as happy oases not to serve the sentence. Being able to finally approve the ratification measure and be able to see people who have committed crimes in various areas return to Italy to serve the sentence, I think it is something fair, fair and important for our country. The point on reciprocity is interesting. From my point of view, I hope that reciprocity exists in many other areas because it is a fundamental value. As far as we're concerned, we think it's vital to our country. I take the opportunity to express my thanks to all the judicial authorities and all the law enforcement forces that have led to the detection of these criminals abroad. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u38	She's registered to speak with Senator Pacific. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at last, after years, the final text of the measure regulating relations between Italy and the United Arab Emirates in the field of criminal judicial assistance and extradition between the two governments arrives in this House. This House is called upon to ratify an agreement which I acknowledge - I have to be honest - has been done very well by the previous Government. An agreement which, with regard to the extradition of arrested citizens or recipients of a trial in the countries of origin, establishes a very important principle: that the death penalty for the sentenced extradited person cannot be imposed, in full respect of human rights. A primacy of European law that begins to make its way even in countries of different orientation with regard to the atonement of the sentence. A first important step, but we certainly need to do more. I imagine in the future a regulatory platform in which some of our country's typical crimes can be recognized by the signatories of agreements for criminal judicial assistance. I imagine the 416- bis, which is universally recognized as a crime by all the countries of the world, also because now considering the mafia as a national criminal organization is antihistorical and, if I may, also irresponsible. The proof, if there is still a need, can be provided by Germany, which a few years ago had a bloody war of 'ndrangheta, remembered as a massacre of Duisburg, or Great Britain, with the colony of Italian fugitives recycling mafia money in the City, not to mention Spain or some countries of Eastern Europe. However, an important step has been taken. The ratification of this agreement must be prodromic in order to relaunch a project of judicial relations with other non-subscribing countries, almost all defined tax havens. I would remind you that the Arab Emirates did not sign the Council of Europe Convention on Extradition, which was signed in Paris in 1957. We must make it difficult for criminals to move and find refuge in other countries. For the sake of clarity, it must be stressed that even after ratification, the Treaty in question will not be able to regulate the extradition procedures activated after its entry into force, but it is clear that for the extradition of fugitives residing in the Gulf it will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice to activate it from the day following the approval of the Assembly of the aforementioned ratification of the Treaty. Of course, this treaty is meant to be in a broader relationship, touching on economic, financial and tourism issues and a timely subscription can only facilitate the already important relations between our country and the United Arab Emirates. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u40	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u41	As agreed, the follow-up to the examination of the measure is postponed until tomorrow's sitting, which will begin at 11 a.m., with explanations of vote and the final vote, the meeting of the Conference of Leaders being set at 9.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u44	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, the intention of this speech is, through you, to urge the Government to do so here!Group. Already in July, when it was beginning to become clear that the situation was becoming explosive, we presented the question 3-00132, and over the past few weeks, signed by Teresa Bellanova, we also presented the question 3-00234, again on this issue. This is a question of enormous proportions, because it concerns over 150,000 establishments involved (gastronomy bars, restaurants, small and large retailers), over 90,000 companies that bought these food vouchers, and hundreds of workers (more than 200 direct and more than 600 in the induced) affected by the crisis situation that this group is experiencing. As I said before, we had already talked about this in July when the matter was about to explode. In recent days, after the failure, there has been a huge alarm for both those who, companies and citizens, have remained in possession of these food vouchers whose use could no longer be understood, and for the situation of workers affected by this situation. The problem is that neither the Ministry seems able to give a perspective, nor the care and property are giving signs of life. In addition, in recent days there has been a further paradoxical situation: Consip seems to have awarded a race with a decrease of 22 percent to a srl called More Good, which seems to be checked 95 percent from here!Group. We ask the Ministry to take the situation into account because, beyond the disasters that are likely to affect companies that have received these vouchers in payment and that now do not know what to do with them, on companies that had bought them and if they have found them in charge, on individual citizens who had received them from companies and who have them in hand, as well as on workers, this risks being a really explosive bomb. We ask that the Ministry take the situation in hand and that, if necessary (we think so), reply to our questions. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u45	The Presidency takes note of your concern.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u48	Mr Giacobbe (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask for the attention of my fellow Members, because the subject I am about to talk about concerns us not as representatives of political parties, but as people and human beings. It is with sadness, ladies and gentlemen, that I speak to talk about the tragedy in Indonesia, one of the countries of my electoral division. To date there are more than 1,200 victims, due to the violent earthquake of magnitude 7.4 and the consequent tsunami, a tragedy that is repeated after that of 2004 and the devastating tsunami in Sumatra. Unfortunately, the number of victims is set to rise. Many people are still under the rubble, many are the areas to be reached and new earthquakes are repeated, also in other islands of the Indonesian Archipelago: it is a few hours ago news of a shock of magnitude 5.9 on the island of Sumba. The areas affected are very large and difficult to reach: there is therefore no water and basic necessities and there is a risk of epidemics. The anomalous wave of the tsunami suddenly caught the population of Palu and Donggala. Immediately after the earthquake an alert had been issued, but it returned after an hour. Suddenly, however, the water wall and the anomalous waves over two meters high fell down with all their violence on the coast, causing death and destruction. Unfortunately, as we know, it is not possible to predict an earthquake, but a more careful analysis, perhaps, could have avoided or limited the tsunami disaster. Cooperation and cooperation between international bodies is needed to improve alert systems for events such as this. The tragedy in Indonesia is taking on enormous dimensions and the Indonesian Government has called for help and assistance from the international community. I hope that we can all commit ourselves to helping these people. Madam President, of course I interpret the sentiment of all the senators and senators, so let me conclude by expressing our sorrow, our sorrow and our solidarity with the Indonesian people. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u49	Senator Jacob, the Assembly takes up the expression of closeness and pain that you have just represented.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u52	EVANGELIST (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this speech is dictated by the need to bring to this House a debate on the other side of Parliament, which, with 295 votes in favour and 181 against, accepted the resignation of Mr Andrea Mura, who had already been expelled from our parliamentary group for having totaled more than 96% of absences. The great media echo has helped to create a real case on which there has been a very high number of statements by the representatives of the oppositions, who have expressed unacceptable, heavy and shameful judgments on the work of the Movimento 5 Stars for having chosen - according to them - a wrong candidate, looking well from going beyond the Mura case, as a mature political reflection would have demanded, and dealing responsibly - and I add, finally - the problem of absenteeism of the parliamentarians. It all started from the denunciation of the deputy of Forza Italia Ugo Capellacci, former President of the Region of Sardinia - that in the general elections of 4 March was beaten in the college of Cagliari just from Andrea Mura - which, drawing from the official data of the Open Parliament, signalled the high rate of absences of the deputy Mura, also member of the parliamentary commission transports, post and telecommunications. To the unupbuilding answers that did not provide any justification on the part of Mura (the parliamentary activity can be carried out by boat, he said), is followed, as everyone knows, the intervention of the Movimento 5 Stars that, as always, has been linear, attentive to guarantee the respect of the rules and the application of the statute and the code of ethics, but above all the respect of the Constitution of the Republic and the laws. Hence the consequent expulsion of Mr Andrea Mura, who announced his resignation as a Member of Parliament only on 4 August with a letter sent to the President of the Chamber Roberto Fico, in which, moreover - I regret to point out - there is no trace of excuse for not having complied with the obligation to attend the parliamentary work as imposed by the statute, by the ethical code and by the same public function assumed. The acceptance of the resignation by the House is recent history and would be the natural epilogue of which to take note without further observations, if it were not for the really disproportionate number of statements of the opposition and their contradictory scope that can be condensed in the sentence: "You of the Movimento 5 Stars have nothing to teach." Analyzing with the same rigour the updated data, made public a few days ago, it is known that the most absent Member is the forzist Michela Vittoria Brambilla, in his fourth legislature, with a rate of absence equal to 99,55 per cent, having so far presented itself to Montecitorio only once, but the sad primacy of Forza Italia hold him in this Chamber Senator Romani, who has 99,56 per cent of the absences, and Senator Ghedini who totaled 92,44 per cent (he presented himself to the Commission justice only at the first session for its constitution). The same political forces that in an offensive and contradictory way turned to the Movimento 5 Stars not realizing the beam that is in their eye, evidently besides not having the same moral straightness as the Movimento 5 Stars, do not have the linearity, courage and firmness necessary to enforce the rules. That is why a change of pace is called for and it is claimed that they apply the same measure of judgment to their chosen ones and the consequent measures also in their homes. I shall conclude, Mr President, in the hope that Members' absenteeism will become the subject of serious and responsible reflection on the part of the whole political class and that the Presidency Council itself will take serious account of the cases reported in this speech. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u53	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-42.ana.u54	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, October 3, at 11 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.04 a.m.
