ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.06 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 28 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u3	On 29 March 2018, the parliamentary groups appointed their representatives to the Special Commission for the examination of urgent acts submitted by the Government, the composition of which is published in the annex to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u4	I communicate that on 3 April 2018 the members of the Board for the Rules of Procedure, as referred to in Article 18 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, were appointed. The list is annexed to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u5	On 4 April 2018, the Special Commission for the examination of urgent acts submitted by the Government elected its Bureau. They were elected: President: Vito Claudio Crimi Vice President: Erica Rivolta and Giacomo Caliendo Secretary: Simona Flavia Malpezzi and Giovanbattista Fazzolari.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u6	I note that President Marcucci has asked to speak on the situation in Syria. The sitting will not be suspended, but your speech will take place after the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u7	The next item is: Vote for the election of two Secretary Senators, pursuant to Article 5, paragraphs 2-a and 2-b of the Rules of Procedure. The Mixed Group and the Autonomous Group have, pursuant to Article 5, paragraph 2-bis of the Rules of Procedure, made a request to proceed with the election of additional Secretary Senators. The Presidency Council, at its meeting on 5 April, accepted this request. Pursuant to Article 5, paragraph 2-b, of the Rules of Procedure, each senator will write on his card a single name. The two Senators who are members of the Groups will be elected, whose request has been accepted by the Presidency Council, who will receive the highest number of votes, only one Senator for each requesting Group. In order to ensure the smoothest running of voting operations, a booth was set up in front of the Presidency. My fellow senators, immediately before the entrance into the cabin, will receive a card from the parliamentary assistants which, after the vote, will deposit in the appropriate urn on the exit from the cabin itself. The call will be done in alphabetical order. I declare the vote open. I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal. (In the course of the voting operations the senators secretary Montevecchi and Giro proceed to the appeal.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u8	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Secondary School of 1st grade "Giuseppe Capograssi" in Sulmona, in the province of L'Aquila, and of the Artistic High School "Val Boite" in Cortina d'Ampezzo, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u9	I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed to the ballot box, which will take place in the adjacent Pannini Room.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u10	Pending the results of the vote, as announced at the beginning of the session by President Alberti Casellati, Senator Marcucci has the floor, who has asked to speak on the events of Syria. I inform you that one senator will be able to speak for each group, for five minutes each. Senator Marcucci, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u11	Mr President, Senators, thank you for your attention. What is happening in Syria is unacceptable and it obliges us all to take political action so that the use of chemical weapons against civilians is stopped immediately. The authors and the perpetrators of such evil deeds must be condemned with international strength and compactness. There can be no extenuating in the face of such blind violence, which reminds us - alas - closely of the massacres of civilians who struck central Italy at the hands of the Nazis at the end of the Second World War. Mr President, we allow ourselves, through the presidency of the Senate, to request with force and immediacy the presence of the Government in this House to report on the actions we are pursuing in the appropriate institutional and international fora. I ask that the request for the Government's presence on this issue of international policy which is so important and which is very close to our heart be given urgent consideration. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u12	Senator Marcucci, it will be my care to inform President Alberti Casellati, who will provide for your request.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u15	Toninelli (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a war in Syria since 2011. Hundreds of thousands of people have died in seven years. According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, there are some 7,600,000 internally displaced persons and over 5 million refugees abroad. Syria was a beautiful country; today it is a country that risks disappearing. He's long since become a powder keg. The territory is divided between jihadist militias, the "Islamic state" and anti-government rebel forces, while some areas are still under the control of the regime of Damascus. The current war is obviously a proxy war, played, on the one hand, by Moscow and Tehran in support of the Assad regime and, on the other, by the United States and Saudi Arabia, which have long been aiming to overthrow the regime. The main victim of all this chaos, unfortunately, has been and still is the Syrian people. Well, in these hours we are recording an escalation of tension that worries us: first the chemical attack of Douma, a terrible massacre, which follows further chemical attacks already committed in the country in the past - we all remember, unfortunately, Ghuta in 2013 - and, again, the exchange of accusations between the parties involved was immediate. A few hours later, then, the hit and tweet response, with American President Donald Trump threatening a tough response in Syria, through beautiful, new and intelligent missiles and Russia, who said she was ready to take them all down. The tones themselves, as I have already said, give rise to enormous concerns. It seems that the scenario is changing quickly and the hypothesis of an intervention in the country appears, unfortunately, increasingly concrete. In the light of all this, at this very delicate and complex stage, we believe that the President of the Council of Ministers, Paolo Gentiloni Silveri, should inform the Senate as soon as possible about the developments in progress, especially because of the electoral outcome of the vote on 4 March and the new parliamentary composition in place. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u18	MALAN (FIBP). Mr President, the situation in Syria can only give rise to concern, beginning with the war that has been going on for several years, but the development that has been taking place in recent days must put us in particular on the alert. The issue of the chemical attack must be examined, in any case it must be made clear about the episode and, if there has been a chemical attack, it must undoubtedly be taken into account and counter-measures taken. But we must also take note of the escalation that is taking place in these days and the danger of an armed conflict extended to powers outside the Syrian territory, with consequences on the balance and stability of the entire Mediterranean. Italy, because of its position, its history and its political role, must play a role at this stage, must make its voice heard and must work to avoid hasty moves and steps that can even lead to a worsening of the already very problematic situation in the area. For this reason I agree with what Presidents Marcucci and Toninelli have said before me, asking the Government to report to the Assembly and come to the House to address the issue, which is extremely important, regardless of the internal political moment, of course, because Italian interests are constant, regardless of who is in the Government and the depth of the legitimacy it has. [[Applause from the FIBP, M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u21	Mr Bagnai (L-SP). Mr President, in these hours our voters, the Italian citizens, are very concerned about the events in Syria and also because they have a very unpleasant feeling, that is to say that they are watching a movie in many ways already seen: I think that we all remember the extremely iconic image, as we say today, of Colin Powell with his vial and almost all of us - perhaps a little less - remember Tony Blair, when he apologized to his voters for having supported the attack against Iraq, of which his services had said that he held harmful and lethal weapons of mass destruction, which were not actually found. So I agree first and foremost with Senator Malan's words, in urging caution and in pursuing the need to know and determine exactly the facts before taking a decision. The risk of escalation is extremely serious and I wonder, in all this scenario, what the role of that European Union is, most commonly in our debate called improperly Europe, which comes from many political parties supported precisely on the basis of the argument that it would be an authoritative interlocutor who would be able to intervene and manage geopolitical conflict situations, such as the one we are witnessing. Just think of Libya's precedent: in what has our European brotherhood helped us? We had the feeling of being betrayed and we also had, not the feeling, but the evidence of the fact that upset geopolitical balances not fully understood by us led to a humanitarian catastrophe, which then reflected very heavily on the life of Italians with the phenomenon of migratory flows, creating so many refugees, so many people who need our help. We must never forget that, upstream of this dramatic situation, there have been political and, in particular, military choices which have proved to be rash. This is a risk that we cannot afford to take, yet having to bear the consequences of previous reckless choices, and that is why I join those who have preceded me in asking for the government to report to the House, to inform us and above all to tell us what information it really has and what it is asking in the appropriate fora to be done, with an independent international inquiry, light on what really happened. [[Applause from the L-SP and FIBP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u24	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, in these hours the President of the United States has announced a probable missile attack against Syria to punish the very serious chemical attack in the city of Douma by the Syrian regime and, in the words of President Trump, by that animal of Assad. The penalty has been established, the guilt has not yet been proven, since the UN international inspectors have not yet expressed their views on the alleged chemical attack in the city of Douma, the nature of the attack and the perpetrators of the attack. Faced with a situation that could rapidly degenerate, with unexpected consequences for the whole of the Middle East and consequently for what can happen in Europe, it would be advisable at least the minimum of prudence necessary to determine exactly what has happened and who is responsible. Unfortunately, we have already seen in the past that rash moves in Iraq, the Middle East and Libya have recently been denied by the facts and perhaps, in hindsight, it would have been better to adopt greater attention and caution. For this reason, as the Brothers of Italy Group, we ask that the Government act in every possible place so that any act carried out at international level is assessed with due attention and that reckless actions such as those which appear to be in the process of being committed be prevented. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u25	So you too are joining the request that the President-in-Office of the Council report back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u28	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, it is obvious that we too strongly demand, in order to give an institutional sense and composure to our debate, that the Government, then the President-in-Office of the Council or whoever for him, should come and report to this House. In fact, I believe that the Senate needs to carry out a more in-depth discussion, also in order to be aware of the information and how the Government still intends to move. You see, Mr President, I believe that the most important thing at the moment is to stop the escalation, before it triggers conflicts with the potentially devastating outcome both on the Middle East scenario and on the more general one, with the risk, which I think is very serious, of a confrontation between the USA and Russia. The use of chemical weapons is a very serious thing: we are all dismayed at the images of what has happened and which is happening and certainly must, with determination and - I add - with certainty, identify the authors and the senders. There are certainly elements, but this task cannot be entrusted to the individual powers, it must be taken over by the United Nations. The war in Syria - here I mean it - was perhaps the lowest point reached - alas - by the UN's ability to intervene. For many years, beginning with the Assad regime, but certainly not only that, the most basic human rights have been systematically violated and international legality has also been destroyed. Syria, unfortunately, has become a battlefield in which, at the expense of the civilian population (this is the constant), all foreign powers (Iran, Turkey, Russia, Israel, USA) intervened heavily not to seek mediation capable of saving thousands and thousands of lives of civilians, but only to support one faction against the other. I just want to remind you here of the Kurds, who were first exalted by the West as heroes of freedom and then shamefully abandoned and sacrificed on the altar of Realpolitik. The world has for years looked elsewhere, without realizing that the Syrian crisis, without any more international control, was turning into a threat to everyone. I must say that this deafening silence also affects the total impotence and the absence of the European Union, of which we have almost no mention, no element. Yet you know perfectly well how the crisis and the transformation of Syria into a battlefield has direct consequences not only on international balances, but also directly on our country. Today, therefore, we are at a point where the situation is becoming even more deflagrant and risks becoming a conflict with absolutely unpredictable outcomes. We will be nostalgic, but we are stubborn in this and we believe that the word must return once again to the international community and its institutions and that we cannot leave the word to the international sheriffs, because this would mean accepting only the logic of the law of the strongest. Once again, therefore, we think that this debate with the Government in this House should be dealt with as soon as possible. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u31	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly to join, on behalf of my Group, in the request made by Senator Marcucci and in the words of the other senators who spoke before me on the need to raise the Government on the very worrying issue of the territory of the Syrian region and the heinousness that is taking place at the expense of the population. I believe that this tragedy is the most serious after the Second World War and therefore it is right that all the forces in this country contribute in some way to push the Government to intervene in a positive way for that territory. Unfortunately, we too must stress that once again there is the deafening silence of the European Union and I believe that this is one of the most negative aspects of the whole issue. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), PD and Misto-Leu.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u32	As the ballots have not yet been taken, I shall briefly suspend the sitting to allow the ballots to be completed. (The sitting was suspended at 4.44 p.m. and resumed at 4.50 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u33	I communicate the result of the secret ballot vote for the election of two Secretary Senators: [[Senators present 294 Senators voting 293]] Senators got votes: [[Laforgia 42 Durnwalder 36 White cards 214 None cards 1]] I proclaim elected secretaries the senators: Laforgia and Durnwalder. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u36	VACCARO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am a spokesman for the people of Campania. I would like to take this opportunity to bring to the attention of this House the concerns of hundreds of workers at Auchan Napoli points of sale and, more generally, of all workers at Campania points of sale. Mugnano, Giugliano, Nola and Pompeii are living in these hours moments of great concern about their future. Apparently, at the end of the month the famous French brand would close its doors, as it just happened in Catania (La Rena). We are in solidarity with our friends in Catania. It's not fair! That's not possible, ma'am! I say it as a Neapolitan, but above all I say it as an ex-dependent Auchan. Tuesday, April 3, 2018, at about 8 am, the company Auchan retail Italy, communicated to the workers of the Auchan shopping center Naples (Via Argine) that the company would stop working during the current month, creating panic, discouragement and disappointment among employees. The company note also indicated: With a sense of responsibility, the company is committed to limiting social impacts, trying to identify the best solutions for each employee. Too bad it is clear from the note that this operation will be able to guarantee job continuity only for part of the staff; it is therefore deduced that the job would not be assured to all and that some would remain without. Other workers still told us that the contractual conditions would not be the same. Also in the press note we read: Despite the company's efforts to re-launch the two retail outlets, the situation of these two hypermarkets is no longer sustainable. But one forgets to say that, despite the efforts of the employees, who with a sense of responsibility have always given so much to the company adapting to the many needs that were asked, these were treated as unknown people. What about the efforts the state has made for the company? With the colleague of the 5 Star Movement in the Chamber, Andrea Caso, we personally went to these points of sale; we spoke with the workers and gathered their sufferings: tears of emotion of fathers and mothers with dependent unemployed children or students to be maintained. In my view, this is not a sale of a business branch, Mr President: this is commercial speculation! Mr President, I would ask you to take the fate of these workers to heart. It would be appropriate to convene the summits to receive the appropriate assurances, especially to have explanations about the use of state funds and what industrial plan has been applied in addition to the project called "Discount Italia Sud" (Discount Italia Sud). [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u37	Thank you. It was also perfect in the times. I do not think there are any other late-session speeches. There was one on Rome, but then, luckily, it was decided not to. However, we do the same compliments to Rome.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-4.ana.u38	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. The Senate is summoned to the house. The sitting was closed at 16.55 p.m.
