ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.34 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Carossino, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 7 August. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u3	[[The President and the Assembly stand]] Last August 14 Genoa, Liguria and, with them, Italy as a whole were shocked by the tragic collapse of the viaduct Polcevera. That morning on the eve of Ferragosto, about 200 meters of bridge suddenly collapsed, falling into the waters of the river, crumbling on the railroad, the sheds and the houses below: 43 victims, among children, women and men, and 600 displaced, this is the unacceptable balance of a tragedy that could and should have been avoided. The Morandi Bridge was the symbol of a dynamic Italy projected towards a future of growth and well-being. In a few seconds it has instead transformed into the painful metaphor of a country unable to defeat the carelessness, to guard its assets and to guarantee security to citizens. In those dramatic moments the whole world observed us and saw an extraordinary ability to intervene in the emergency. Fire Departments, Civil Protection, Forces of Order, rescuers and volunteers, risking their lives and working tirelessly, have returned to all of us the hope of being able to rebuild that country imagined by our fathers. This is the challenge that politics must face and which this House, I am sure, will not escape. Genoa cannot wait; it cannot be wounded and isolated. The already devastating social and economic repercussions would be unimaginable if they lasted an extra minute. We need timeliness, efficiency, sustainability and vision. The country needs to be united. Only in this way can the reconstruction of the bridge be an opportunity to show that mistakes will not be repeated. We owe it, first of all, to the 43 broken lives, in memory of which I invite you to a minute of recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u4	Unfortunately, there is another occasion for commemoration. Senators colleagues, on 24 August last we were suddenly left by former Senator Emiddio Novi, a long-term journalist and Member of Parliament. Novi was appreciated as an exponent of the Southernist culture. Both as a professional and as a representative of the citizens, he was able to put the social, economic and environmental problems of his land at the centre of national attention. He was responsible for some of the first journalistic investigations into the illegal disposal of toxic waste, which he then dealt with rigorously as President of the Senate Environment Commission. Battle senator, but always respectful of the ideas and positions of political opponents, Novi has been able to leave a mark in the institutions thanks above all to a peculiar predisposition to deepening, study and dissemination. Let me also give you a brief personal memory. I shared with Emiddio Many years of parliamentary activity, many moments. I remember with affection the balance, the civil passion, the daily commitment to the service of the country. I have always been amazed at your ability to speak with determination in this House, while maintaining a recognised objectivity of evaluation. Its natural and entrenched guaranteeing represents, perhaps better than any other consideration, its political figure. To his wife Pina, to his sons Henry, Alexander and Vittorio, to his sister Mary, who are present today in the gallery, I express my sincere condolences and that of the entire Assembly. I would therefore ask Members to observe one minute's recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u7	DE SIANO (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking about the sudden disappearance of Emidio Novi, in the certainty of interpreting and being able to share with all of you the sense of a truly profound mourning. Like many of you, I have had the pleasure, indeed the privilege, of knowing and associating with him. I had the opportunity to share with him years and years of common political battles, I had the opportunity to appreciate his extraordinary intelligence, the profound culture, his particular political insight, his high sense of the State, his constant will to serve and fight for the country, but above all for the poorest and the weakest, his ability to always offer debate and political and institutional action a significant contribution, as well highlighted by the President of the Senate in his speech. Emiddio Novi - and I am not afraid he can be denied - was one of the best children of this country and his disappearance was a serious loss, especially for his Campania and his Naples, places where he has always lived and who loved like his Sant'Agata di Puglia. Emiddio Novi leaves us an important and precious legacy: Senator Novi leaves us the fruitful fruits of his work, his writings and his profound reflections, but above all he leaves us a witness, that of the life of a man, of an intellectual who has been able to investigate deeply and profitably in the complexity of our time and who, with his commitment to others, to his family, to his fellow citizens and to his country, has been able to give a truly high meaning to his life and not only. To the wife, to the children and to those who, like us, have known and frequented him goes the deepest sense of our closeness. To him, to our friend Hemiddius, goes our deepest sense of gratitude. Hello, Emiddio. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u10	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, today we remember Senator Emiddio Novi, who has been in the Senate for a long time and who disappeared last August under circumstances that are still very difficult to accept. I met him in 2003, when I was elected for the first time in the Senate, and today I commemorate him with that feeling of closeness that should always bind all of us, regardless of the political relations that can see us allies or opponents. Emiddio Novi was a politically very committed senator, but also reserved and silent, and it is for this part that we only met from afar, looking at us, he sat in the right side of the hemicycle and I in the left. In so many years I don't remember ever having a personal conversation with him. And I say this with regret, for a way of staying in the same Chamber, which sometimes concerns us and sees us spending days in the same place without ever speaking personally. And it is one of the many data that makes our time difficult and makes us fear the consequences of so much incommunicability. However, from afar I have observed and followed him, appreciating not only his commitment to a universal moratorium on executions, but also the assiduousness with which he attended the Senate Chamber and his consistent political commitment to the positions of his Group. Commemorating Emiddio Novi allows me to say that a high way of remembering it should be to commit ourselves, all of us senators, to authentic mutual respect, always trying not to transform political dissent into an enmity and not to consider the political opponent an enemy to be overthrown by any means, allowed or not. The excesses of the House and the vulgarity that all of us have witnessed are a sign of decadence and misconception that do little to honour Parliament's dignity. The Italian Parliament has lost much of the prestige and authority it has had over the decades in the last legislative years. This is not good for democracy. We must recover the civilization of confrontation between us, by asserting our arguments and not by trying to impose our intemperances, we must remember that politics is done with the head and not with the belly. Let me mention something great that we have heard about in the last few days and which, after all, concerns us too. In recent days I have followed the commemorations with which in the United States was honoured the disappearance of Republican Senator JohnMcCain. The speeches in memory of McCain that impressed me most were those of two Democrats, two of his political opponents, Senator Joe Biden, former Vice President, and former President Barack Obama. In the speeches of Barack Obama and Joe Biden stood out the respect, admiration and consideration with which they remembered what had been a leader and their proud but loyal political opponent. Obama and Biden have repeatedly made me think of us, of our inability to honor and respect our political opponents, to recognize the merits and also, when they do, the reasons. In remembering today Senator Emiddio Novi, even a mindful of an opponent with whom there have never been unorthodox political clashes, I want to think that the Senate is again a place of always civil confrontation of political ideas and platforms and that it never succumbs to the temptations to solve problems with insult and mutual offense. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u13	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, thank you for reminding us here today of Emiddio Novi. He was a passionate, generous and coherent colleague; a man who never hid in his political battles, who always made them face-to-face, who also knew how to be divisive in his political commitment. But all of this has never failed in its ability to be loyal to others. The previous speaker reminded me of the nobility of politics, which should be nobility. Is it part of a ritual, remembering someone who left and was sitting in this Chamber? I believe not: it is part of a high moment in this House and in politics, because a democracy lives and is enriched with the memory of those who have passed from here, with the memory of those who have contributed. I had him as a colleague, I appreciated his political capacity, his culture and his profound humanity. For him there were not adversaries as enemies, but political interlocutors with whom he had the pleasure of cultivating a dialogue outside the official nature of this House. That is why, at this moment, I remember a gentleman and with this word I think of summing up the great qualities of Hemiddio Novi and it is right that in the forms and ways that will be considered opportune, in agreement with his family, to which I express a deep sharing of the feelings of emptiness that he has left us, we should find a way to remember his figure and political work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u14	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u15	The Conference of Leaders, meeting on Thursday 6 September, approved changes and additions to the current calendar and the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 4 October. This week's schedule provides for the discussion of the draft law establishing the Committee of Parliamentary Inquiry into the events of the community "Il Forteto" as well as, where concluded by the Commissions, proposals for monocameral parliamentary inquiry into the earthquake of L'Aquila and feminicide. Tomorrow, at 9.30 am, the President of the Council of Ministers will make an information on the story of the ship Diciotti. Groups will be able to intervene for ten minutes. In the week from 18 to 20 September will be discussed at third reading, where amended by the Chamber of Deputies, the decree-law extends deadlines, due to expire next 23 September. The calendar of the week from 25 to 27 September provides for the discussion, from the writing site, of the bill on the obligation to install safety devices for children in vehicles, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, as well as the bill of account 2017 and settlement 2018. If not concluded, the above arguments will be examined in the week from 2 to 4 October. The schedule of work also includes, for each week, inspection union sessions and, every Thursday at 3 p.m., the question time. Finally, the timetable can be supplemented by the discussion of the Update Note for the 2018 Economic and Financial Document, as well as an information from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation in relation to developments in Libya. The Conference of Leaders will meet at 9.30 a.m. on Thursday 13 September. I inform you that the Conference of Leaders has taken note of the new directives laid down by the Presidency on the criteria for drafting inspection union acts, based on a rigorous application of Articles 145 and 154 of the Senate Rules of Procedure. Questions containing elements unrelated to the simple question addressed to the Minister responsible for information or explanations on a particular subject or for whether and what measures have been taken or are intended to be taken in relation to the same subject matter, as defined in Article 145 of the Rules of Procedure, will therefore be considered inadmissible. Consequently, any premissive part should be closely linked to the wording of the question. Similar considerations apply to questions, as defined in Rule 154 of the Rules of Procedure. Both provisions appear unambiguous in linking the function of inspection union acts to the actual sphere of competence of the Commission. Therefore, questions and questions aimed at requesting the intervention of the Government in areas which are not covered by it (such as the healing powers of constitutional bodies, powers of other powers of the State, independent authorities, or territorial or supranational bodies, activities of political parties) will be considered impossible under the above-mentioned regulations. In the light of these criteria, the Presidency considers it appropriate to set a limit also in dimensional terms to the drafting of inspection union acts which will have to be contained at most in two folders.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u16	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, which met on 6 September 2018 with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following programme of the Senate's proceedings for the months of September and October 2018: - Drawing of Law No. 536 - Establishment of a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the events of the "Il Forteto" community - Document XXII, No. 11 - Establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry on security, emergency and reconstruction, from the earthquake of the Eagle 2009 to subsequent seismic events, as well as on the consequent demographic and socio-economic problems of the internal areas (where concluded by the Commission) - Documents XXII, no. 1, 8 and 9 - Establishment of a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, as well as all forms of gender violence (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of Law No 766 and related - Introduction of the obligation to install devices to prevent the abandonment of children in closed vehicles (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Bills for the conversion of decrees-laws - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the competent Commission - Budgetary documents - Settlement and Statement of the State's budget - Motions - Interrogations and questions - Documents defined by the Board of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u17	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups also adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - amendments and additions to the current timetable and the new schedule of proceedings until 4 October 2018: [[Tuesday, September 11 h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 536 - Institution Commission of inquiry into the events occurred at the community "Il Forteto" (from the writing site) - Doc. XXII, No 11 - Establishment of the Committee of Inquiry into the L'Aquila earthquake (from the drawing-up site) (where concluded by the Commission) - Doc. No XXII, nos. 1, 8 and 9 - Institution Committee of Inquiry into Femicide (from the drawing-up office) (where concluded by the Commission) - Statement by the President of the Council of Ministers on the case of the Diciotti ship (Wednesday 12, 9.30 a.m.) - Questions and questions (Wednesday 12) - Immediate answers, pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 13, 15 a.m.) Wednesday 12" h. 9,30-20 Thursday 13 " h. 15]] [[Tuesday, September 18 h. 16,30-20 - Following topics not concluded - Drawing of law n. 717-B - Decree-Law n. 91, extension of terms (approved by the Senate, where amended by the Chamber of Deputies) (expires on 23 September) - Questions and questions - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 20, 15) Wednesday 19 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 20 " h. 9,30-20]] The deadline for tabling amendments to bill No 717-B (Decree-Law No 91, extension of time limits) will be set in relation to the transmission time by the Chamber of Deputies. [[Tuesday, September 25 h. 16,30-20 - Following topics not concluded - Drawing of law n. 766 and related - Obligation to install safety devices for children in vehicles (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (from the writing site) - Drawings of law n. ... and... - Report 2017 and Settlement 2018 (where approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (final votes with the presence of the quorum) - Questions and questions - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 27, 15:00) Wednesday 26 " h. 9.30-20 Thursday 27 " h. 9.30-20]] The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law no. ... and... (2017 Report and 2018 Settlement) will be established in relation to the transmission times by the Chamber of Deputies. [[Tuesday, 2 October h. 16.30-20 - Follow-up to unfinished business - Questions and questions - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 4, 3 p.m.) Wednesday 3rd h. 9.30-20 Thursday 4th h. 9.30-20]] The calendar can be integrated with the discussion of the Update Note of the 2018 Economy and Finance Document as well as with an information from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation in relation to the developments of the situation in Libya. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 717-B (Decree-Law No 91, extension period) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 44' FI-BP 30' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' PD 28' FdI 18' Mixed 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 15' Dissentents 5']] Breakdown of time limits for the discussion of draft law Nos. ... and... (2017 account and 2018 settlement) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 44' FI-BP 30' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' PD 28' FdI 18' Mixed 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 15' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the Doc. LVII, No 1-a (Note to update the 2018 Economy and Finance Document) (7 hours, including explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1h 13' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u18	The next item is the debate on the drawing-up of draft law No 536. The rapporteur, Senator Evangelista, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law No 536 of the initiative of Senator Bottici and others, which we are voting on today in this House, provides for the establishment of a bicameral committee of inquiry into the events which have taken place in the community of Il Forteto. This proposal takes up the content of the 2030 Act of the Senate approved in the last legislature at first reading by the Senate. The text, which was unanimously adopted by the Justice Commission, was amended during the drafting process, with the adoption of three specific amendments tabled by the rapporteur. Before examining the measure, account should be taken, albeit briefly, of the very serious facts underlying the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry. The agricultural cooperative "Il Forteto" (Forteto), a community of rehabilitation for disadvantaged minors located in the Municipality of Barberino di Mugello, in the Province of Florence, has been at the center of a long judicial case for sexual abuse, abuse and pedophilia, begun already at the end of the seventies, culminated in 1985 with a first definitive condemnation of co-founders for aggravated ill-treatment and acts of libido. It is Rodolfo Fiesoli, called the "prophet" and Luigi Goffredi. Vicenda ended in 2015, for Fiesoli, with a further sentence (in first instance) to seventeen years of imprisonment, reduced to fifteen years and ten months on appeal, for sexual violence and ill-treatment. The latter judgment was challenged in cassation. The Supreme Court in 2017, with the judgment n. 3346, has made the sentence of Fiesoli definitive, annulling with postponement limited to one of the episodes of sexual violence. For the other nine defendants, including Goffredi, despite having declared extinct crimes by prescription, he confirmed their civil statues. Following the 2017 judgment, the judicial case had further developments (not mentioned in the explanatory report). In relation to the order of execution of the sentence, issued in December of the same year, by the General Prosecutor of the Court of Appeal of Florence, Fiesoli has proposed a request for annulment to the Court of Appeal of Florence, in function of the judge of the execution for impossibility to execute a sentence that does not have the characteristics of certainty and irrevocableness. The Florentine court, in January 2018, rejected this request by order. Finally, that decision, challenged in Cassation, was annulled without a referral from the Supreme Court (judgment n. 30780 of 2018), resulting in the revocation of the order of execution which had been issued by the Public Prosecutor on 23 December 2017. Well, even today Fiesoli is still in a state of freedom, with consequent anger and dismay of all the victims and their families. However, even though Fiesoli had a conviction in 1997 and very serious charges, he was still at the head of the community and - as stated in the report accompanying the bill - the court of minors continued to entrust minors to the structure: there are 60 children entrusted to the structure until 1990. Precisely for the treatment suffered by the two children entrusted by the court of minors to the community "Il Forteto" - meanwhile also became agricultural cooperative with the acquisition of 500 hectares in the Municipality of Dicomano, still in the province of Florence - Italy was condemned in July 2000 by the European Court of Human Rights (Scozzari and Giunta against Italy n. 39221 of 2000), adjudicated by the mothers to whom the minors had been removed. Italy has been ordered to pay a fine of 150 million lire as compensation for moral damages. More in detail, in September 1997 two children born in 1987 and 1994, of which the applicants were respectively their mother and grandmother, were placed with judicial action in the community •Il Forteto • •Il Forteto •Il Forteto •Il Forteto •Il Forteto •Il Forteto •Il Forteto •Il Forteto •Il Giornale •Il Giornale. The judgment reads as follows: Two of the main leaders and founders of the community were convicted for sexually abusing three disabled people entrusted to their custody, facts known to the internal judges. Prior to community integration, the majority of the two children had been victims of violence of a paedophile nature by a social worker. The court considered that the two indicted leaders had carried out a very active role in the custody of minors and concluded that there had been a violation of Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights (to be precise, the right to respect for private and family life) due, in particular, to the continued custody of them to the community "Il Forteto". Finally, it is necessary to point out that the situation of the cooperative has already been the subject of attention also by the institutions: on the one hand, by the Region of Tuscany, through the establishment of two committees of inquiry (the first in 2012, which deposited its final report in 2013, and the second in 2015, which concluded its work only in 2016), on the other hand, by the Ministry of Economic Development, which, called upon to evaluate the administrative profile of the agricultural cooperative, in August 2013 asked for its commission (later rejected by the assembly of the cooperative), motivating it because of the heavy and invasive mixture between the community and the agricultural cooperative directly involved in the management of the custody of children and misfits. It is just the other day the statement of the trade union acronyms FLAI CGIL, which say they are strongly concerned about the mix between the company and the community. Well, the draft law we are about to vote on consists of nine articles. Article 1 provides, as amended by the Commission, that under Article 82 of the Constitution a parliamentary committee of bicameral inquiry is to be set up into the above-mentioned events in the community "Il Forteto" with the task of carrying out investigations into possible institutional responsibilities regarding the management of the community and the custody of minors, in order to envisage the adoption of organizational and instrumental measures for the proper functioning of the structure. The tasks of the Commission, as set out in Article 1, are then indicated in detail in Article 2, which is also amended by the Commission. It is stated that the Commission is called upon to ascertain the facts and reasons for which the public administrations and competent authorities concerned, including those invested with supervisory powers, have continued to accredit the community as an institutional interlocutor, including as a result of judicial measures concerning sexual abuse and ill-treatment related to conduct carried out within the community, and to verify the assumptions for the appointment of a commissioner for the productive part of the structure, Il Forteto, inherent in the agricultural cooperative, for the purposes of management dissociated from the community for the recovery of children in custody. The draft law then assigns to the Commission the task of formulating proposals for the adoption of new instruments for the control of housing communities on national territory, as well as the strengthening of the system of controls on persons responsible for family custody and, where responsibilities and negligence have emerged in relation to them, the way in which the appropriate sanctioning measures have been applied. The Commission, in accordance with Article 3, will be composed of twenty senators and twenty Members appointed by their respective presidents, in proportion to the number of members of the parliamentary groups, while ensuring the presence of one representative for each group. It is up to the Commission itself to elect the Bureau (President, two Vice Presidents and two Secretaries). Paragraph 2 provides that the members of the Commission shall declare to the Presidency of the House of Membership that they have not held roles in judicial proceedings relating to the facts under investigation. As regards the organisation of work, Article 4 provides for the adoption by the Commission of rules of procedure. With regard to powers, Article 5 (1) provides that the Commission shall carry out its tasks with the same powers of investigation and investigation and with the same limitations as the judicial authority. For the secrets of State, office, professional and banking, pursuant to paragraph 2, the rules in force and the law of 3 August 2007, n. 124, as well as Article 203 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, apply. With regard to the profile of evidence before the Commission, Article 5 provides for the application of the provisions of Articles 366 concerning the refusal of legally due offices, and 372 of the Criminal Code, which punishes false testimony (articles referred to in Chapter I, Title III of Book II of the Criminal Code). Paragraph 3 of Article 5 regulates the request for documents and documents, providing that the Commission may request copies of documents and documents relating to ongoing proceedings and investigations with the judicial authority or other investigative bodies, even if covered by secrecy, proceeding at the same time to the maintenance of the confidentiality regime for all acts and documents relating to judicial proceedings at the stage of the preliminary investigations kept, produced, or in any case acquired by the bodies and offices of the public administration in matters relevant to the purposes of the investigation. In such cases, the judicial authority must provide in good time, being able to delay the transmission of the requested documents only for reasons of a preliminary nature and with a reasoned decree (decree that has effect for six months and is renewable). In addition, the Commission may obtain from the bodies and offices of the public administration copies of documents and documents held by them, produced or acquired for the purposes of the investigation (Article 5 (5)) and request copies of documents and documents relating to parliamentary investigations and investigations conducted in Italy (paragraph 8). The Commission may then determine, on the basis of paragraph 6, which acts and documents must not be disclosed, even in relation to requirements relating to ongoing investigations or other investigations, while it is expected that in any case acts and documents relating to judicial proceedings at the stage of preliminary investigations should be covered by secrecy. Paragraph 7 then specifies that the secrecy between the lawyer and the procedural party within the scope of the mandate is always opposable. Paragraph 4 states that functional secrecy concerning acts and documents acquired by the Commission of Inquiry may be opposed to the judicial authority. In carrying out its activities, pursuant to paragraph 9, the Commission may make use of the work of judicial officers and police officers, as well as any other civil servant or collaborator deemed necessary. Article 6 of the measure governs the obligation of secrecy in respect of all acts and documents relating to the members of the Commission, officials and staff of any order and grade attached to the Commission and any other person who cooperates with it, performs or competes in the conduct of investigations, or becomes aware of them for reasons of office or service. The violation of this obligation shall be punishable in accordance with Article 326 of the Criminal Code. Article 7 also provides that the meetings of the Commission shall be public unless the Commission considers it appropriate to decide to meet in secret. For the operation of the Commission, an expenditure limit of EUR 50 000 per year shall be set; these expenditure shall be charged to the Chamber and Senate budgets in equal parts. Article 8, again amended by the Commission, stipulates that the Commission of Inquiry must complete its work within 12 months of its establishment and submit to the Chambers, within 30 days of the end of its work, the final report of its investigation activity. Finally, Article 9 regulates the entry into force of the measure on the day following that of publication in the Official Journal. I'm done. I thank the President and the whole House. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u20	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u21	Mr President, I give up my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u22	We shall now proceed to the vote on the articles in the text proposed by the Commission. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u25	LANZI (M5S). Mr President, Senator colleagues, Senator colleagues, Rodolfo Fiesoli, the founder of the community for abused children, "Il Forteto" in Vicchio, in the province of Florence, at the centre of various investigations for sexual abuse and violence, was released following a decision of the Supreme Court on 5 July. Fiesoli and his right-hand man Luigi Goffredi (for him sentenced to six years cancelled by prescription) had already been arrested in 1978, a few years after the founding of the community, for acts of violent libido and abuse of disabled children and finally condemned in 1985. Yet the voice of the victims remained unheard until 2011, when Fiesoli was again arrested and the prosecutor of Florence resumed, with enormous effort and amid heavy mistrust, to dig into the horrors of the community. No one, no one, could say to ignore the monstrosities of Forteto, yet Fiesoli and Goffredi have for decades managed the community where minors were plagiarized, exploited and abused; A dramatic experience, sometimes criminal, says the procedural papers. But the judgment involves an entire system of power in Tuscany, made up of implicit complicity and explicit support, of "short" institutional circuit, "instrumentalization" and an "unlimited credit line" opened by Regione, Red Municipalities of Mugello, court for minors, social services, galaxy coop. The Forteto is a community of reception but also a red agricultural coop, still working, where the children were sent to work. He obtained funding and credits, his bosses were invited to important conferences to explain the model "educational", juvenile justice continued to send on Mugello children taken to families who fell into an abyss of moral, physical and sexual violence. But those in charge of Tuscany spoke of conspiracy and judicial error. Tribunals, social services, parties that ruled and forgave generously "Il Forteto" with public money (many party celebrities closed their electoral campaigns on Mugello) made Fiesoli and comrades believe that they were the bearers of an educational excellence; but their method was to denigrate natural parents, to teach that the relationship between man and woman is impure, to brainwash small guests. The foster kids were assigned not to a real couple, but to two interchangeable functional parents. Homosexuality was presented as liberating from materiality. The Prophet, as Fiesoli was called, had sexual relations with children and adults; The Fort was his hunting territory, as the judges wrote. Despite these facts, finally acclaimed, and a sentence to fifteen years and ten months of imprisonment, Fiesoli is back free. The reactions of the victims, of public opinion and, above all, of Parliament cannot be expected, because this release is a disgrace. Cultural and administrative conformism has been decisive in ensuring that violence and abuse of the Forteto continue for more than thirty years, and action must be taken to ensure that such events never happen again. Today, in this House, to request the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry, pursuant to Article 82 of the Constitution, on the community. "The Forteto" means to ascertain the reasons why the judicial authorities concerned - including those invested with supervisory powers - and the public administrations, have continued to accredit as an institutional interlocutor this community, also following judicial measures concerning sexual abuse and abuse related to conduct within the community itself. It is a moral act due to the victims of the community "Il Forteto" (The Forteto), those victims who had to suffer yet another injustice a few days ago. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u28	MODENA (FI-BP). Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, my explanation of vote refers to Article 2 not so much as regards the first part - which, as the report also showed, we voted in favour of in the Commission - but above all to point out to this House that the second paragraph of Article 2 is a bit at the heart, in our view, of the work to be carried out by the Commission. I refer in particular to points (a) and (b) of paragraph 2, whereby the Commission also has the task of formulating proposals both for the adoption of new instruments of control of housing communities present on national territory and for the strengthening of the system of controls on those responsible for the care where responsibilities and negligence have emerged. What weighs in a particular way on what is our feeling, our sensitivity is that when we talk about the story of the community "Il Forteto" we are not faced with an abnormal and isolated case. We believe that, by mistakes and also terrible facts such as those of this affair, the instruments must be taken so that the overall system that concerns the custody of children - of course in the event that they have been committed illicitly - is subject to penetrating control and also characterized by an immediate sanctioning component. In fact, beyond what we can sometimes read in the newspapers - because the media effect never makes the idea clear to the full - experience makes us believe that the system of controls on responsible subjects must necessarily be expanded and strengthened. Maybe we can take care of minors by believing that they can be parked in some community. Well, I believe that this is a mistake because, precisely with regard to children, the supervision of the State and the institutions in general must be high, including with regard to controls and sanctions when they commit events that then lead to ruining a life forever. Therefore, the vote is in favour, like the one already expressed in the Commission, but it is a vote which looks not only at what the Commission will naturally do, but above all at Article 2, second paragraph, of the draft law under consideration, where there is a reasoning above all of perspective. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u29	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u32	DI NICOLA (M5S). I would like to point out to the Presidency that, due to a malfunctioning of the voting mechanism, I was unable to vote in favour of the two previous votes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u33	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u36	NENCINI (Misto-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is an abysmal difference between Barbiana and Rossoio. There is only one point in common and I emphasize it, because I read that Mr. Fiesoli compared himself to Don Lorenzo Milani. The only common point is the geographical distance: Barbiana is only a few kilometers away from Rossoio, maybe nine. The Municipality of Dicomano is not Barberino di Mugello; on the contrary, a part of the estate is between the Municipalities of Vicchio and Dicomano: this is the only point on which we can mean a relationship between these two names. I would define blasphemy - and I say this as a layman - to approach Don Lorenzo Milani next to the story of Fiesoli and the acolytes of what the cards prove to have been in perfection a cult. Those are also the lands of Giotto: Giotto had a part of his property there, but none of what history has recently told makes it possible for them to be connected to that artistic story. The only one that can be mentioned is perhaps Bosch's crazy genius when we talk about the community "Il Forteto". We must have the strength to ask not only for an apology to the victims, who are still victims of a tragic history; I hope that the formation of the Committee of Inquiry, which Senator Bottici has been promoting for a long time now, is also an opportunity, not to put an end to the truth, but at least to rebuild parts of it, which have already been dealt with by the excellent papers - and I invite my fellow senators to read them, because it is a significant reading - which have been issued by the Committee of Inquiry of the Regional Council of Tuscany, mentioned here by our rapporteur. The facts are of an exemplary complexity and simplicity. It is a kind of terrifying tangle in which none of the institutions can be considered or can be considered marginal: I am talking about the court for minors, public services, not only regional; I am talking about state apparatus that should have been monitored and controlled, while I would say that they have not done so at all. There is no data that emerges from the survey of the Region that can be counted in the place of certainty and truth: not the work done to control who worked there. We are faced with a real exploitation of those who work within the cooperative; we are faced with undeclared work, work without any kind of payment linked to pension schemes and so on. The term to be used is "exploitation" without any other adjective. Then there are the conflicts that have gradually emerged and have come to light between the different levels of justice: they have emerged within the investigation, in the papers of the judiciary and, not least, in the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. As Mr Grillino said, it is not enough to talk about a sort of cultural adjustment: there is much more here. What the Commission must do, Mr President - and I shall finish - in addition to the promotional work already provided for in the article, particularly Article 2 of the draft law, is to push so that it cannot be excluded, as quickly as the time of the tragedy requires, from a commission of that structure. Despite the sentences and despite the fact that they are impressed and surprised by the fact that the historical head of that community, Fiesoli, is in freedom, still today in that cooperative work side by side with the victims and those who abused those women and those men. Talking about the police station therefore means doing something holy and just. Therefore, among other activities of the Commission, I would also suggest that we work to ensure that this objective can be achieved as soon as possible. [[Applause from the Misto-PSI Group and Senator Evangelista.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u39	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after years of silence, we are today debating a matter for which, if it were not because of the seriousness of the institutional seat in which we are, someone might consider us crazy. "Il Forteto" is one of those true stories that, if you tell it on the street, at the bar or in other ordinary places frequented daily, people find it hard to believe that it really happened. So let's try to make some sort of order: there is a place where for thirty years we have received children in foster care from families with serious problems, where serious sexual abuse and violence on minors have been committed. A place where males and females slept in separate areas in the name of a purity of intimate relationships that actually led to homosexuality, wanted and preached by Fiesoli, the chief pedophile of this community. (17.34) (Follows the PIETRA). But above all it was a totalizing sect in which the personalities of the subjects, of children with serious problems have been cancelled, and tens, hundreds of families and people have been ruined, because at "Il Forteto" there were not only very serious abuses on minors, violence, beatings and complete sexual relations carried out by Fiesoli. In that place there were children who were raised at dawn to go to work, before being taken to school, to make a cheese that perhaps ate the illustrious guests - many, from politicians to magistrates - who attended the facility. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] You couldn't get out of that place freely. Those who worked there did not receive a salary but could only have a minimum amount. Everything else remained in cooperative. All contact with the outside was cancelled in a system that shaped the personality and created a parallel reality that made the insertion of the people who made it (because there are also those who did not make it out of that place). In this place everything was allowed in silence and with the connivance of politics, the judiciary, the social and health leadership, with the support and help of the Tuscany Region that for years has considered "Il Forteto" an example, financing and promoting it: all proven by final judgments and reports of the two regional committees of inquiry established by the Regional Council of Tuscany. Fiesoli, in the late 1970s, ended up in prison for sexually harassing a disabled person in the presence of a minor. Politics, the judiciary and the institutions knew these facts that should have suggested at least a precautionary principle towards this man, if we want to call him that. Instead, they decided knowingly to ignore them. Thus, with the start of the investigations and the new arrest of December 2011, Fiesoli, after six years of judicial proceedings, was finally sentenced again on 22 December 2017 by the Cassation for abuse and abuse of minors. Although these facts are proven, he is not in prison today, because the exact extent of the sentence is not yet known. On one of the charges, in fact, the trial must be repeated. But is it possible, I wonder and we ask ourselves, that for a pedophile convicted of such serious crimes, our system does not foresee jail without if and without but? While there is no appeal for the hundreds of victims of the community "Il Forteto" who have suffered everything? And then, according to justice, it seems that in this sect no one has collaborated with Fiesoli, no one in thirty years has seen or known what was happening. Of the 23 people sentenced to trial in the first instance, no one was sentenced to third instance: all saved, mostly thanks to the prescriptions that have been added; even what was considered the right-hand man, the Ideologist Luigi Goffredi, sentenced to eight years in first instance and to six on appeal, got away with it. This picture, ladies and gentlemen, clearly and unequivocally tells us that the judicial process is not enough to put an end to this affair, since this place still exists and is always there, in Vicchio, in Mugello. Many of the tried and prescribed people live and work there today, perhaps alongside the people who have had the courage to denounce, and do the good and bad time. The agricultural cooperative has tried to prove something different from the community. The same judgments have made clear the fact that cooperative and community, over the years, have been the same thing, and in fact, to date, on the board of directors there are characters who have testified in defense of Fiesoli in the various judicial proceedings. So we have to ask ourselves how this could have happened. Who protected Fiesoli? Is it possible that the magistrates, politicians and operators who dealt with "Il Forteto" have all acted in good faith? Is it possible no one noticed anything? Today, thanks to the excellent work of the magistrates of Florence who have put the leaders on the stand after the fundamental but courageous denunciations of the victims, we know what it was and what it is "Il Forteto", but we do not know enough why the same investigations of the Regional Council of Tuscany, unanimously approved after a fundamental work in this matter - it is worth remember - stopped in front of walls that seemed insurmountable. For this, allow me to thank all those women and men who tried to break these walls. Special thanks to the journalist friends Duccio Tronci and Francesco Pini for their book inquiry. Today we must try a Commission of inquiry which has the moral duty to try every way to shed light on this terrible affair, after years of walls of the left Tuscany which has tried in every way to minimize and silence the echo of this story, until now too silent. So, let me ask you, what do they have to hide? What did you have to hide? With the majority that has been formed today and that is present in this Parliament we have an opportunity to give truth to the victims and to compensate them morally, where, unfortunately, it is no longer possible. For all the above, I strongly announce the positive vote of the Brothers of Italy Group. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u42	BITI (PD). Mr President, it is an honour for me to speak for the first time in this House and it is also a great emotion. It is even more considered the theme, which is difficult and complex, but which I know very well coming from that territory. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting for the establishment of this Committee of Inquiry into the terrible, unworthy and ignoble events that have taken place at 'Il Forteto'. I would now like to express on behalf of the whole Group of the Democratic Party the clear, clear and strong intention of our vote in favour. The story of the community of recovery "Il Forteto" has been for years - and unfortunately even today, colleagues have said it before me - an extremely painful open wound for all Mugello, for the Florentine territory from which I come, along with other colleagues, for all Tuscany - before me have spoken of Tuscan colleagues - and now also for the whole country, since we are in the Senate of the Republic to talk about and to care about this topic so difficult, painful and complex. The horrible crimes that the judiciary has found have struck us in the depths, have shaken our consciences, have marked a whole territory in recent years, but above all have devastated, destroyed and marked for life the victims to whom, once again, we express all our closeness. Our party has addressed and will address this issue with the attention and respect due to all those who have life marked by abuse and violence. At the same time, however, we will be careful to distance ourselves from each other and to block any political exploitation of such a painful story. We can't afford it. Our conscience and our responsibility impose this on us. Although the story is not entirely finished, as also Senator La Pietra and other colleagues before me have remembered, the judiciary has issued final sentences. So let's leave with a firm point: there are found and recognized culprits. We await the developments of the trials and do so once again alongside the victims and their families, including all their anger and concern. President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, our responsibility as members of the institutions, while remaining firm and firm in our trust in the courts and competent authorities, requires us to be close to all those who have been affected in this matter and in this matter. The Commission of Inquiry, for whose institution we shall vote this afternoon, must be a place to make clarity, to give institutional recognition to a dark and terrible page for our country and to formulate solutions, so that through the supervision of the competent authorities it is limited to the maximum the possibility that horrible facts such as those that happened to "Il Forteto" do not happen in other similar structures and - I daresay more - so that they no longer happen anywhere and can not be replicated in the structures of our country. Two basic principles will guide the Democratic Party Group within this Commission of Inquiry. The first will be respect for the pain of the victims, which we will never and never allow to be used in an instrumental way. I repeat this forcefully: we cannot afford it. The second will be the protection of the workers and the productions of the cooperative, so important for the economy of the territory. In fact, it is essential that the story of the community be separated from everything that good produces the cooperative: there must be no overlaps in this sense. For us, for the land of reference, it is of primary importance to guarantee jobs and protect workers, untiring everything that horrible and ignoble has happened in the community - facts for which, I repeat, the culprits have already been identified and tried - by the development of a strategic company for the economy of many families and of an entire territory, the Mugellan one, but not only. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that politics, therefore, each of us, is required to have a higher responsibility when it comes to matters that strongly affect the human experience of people. With the establishment of the Commission we are called upon to do this: we have the opportunity, which I hope none of us will want to lose, to show that politics, the one with the capital, has the ability to be careful and responsible, compact and without divisions, in the interests of those citizens who elected us here to represent them. By voting on the draft law before us and preparing for work in the Commission, I therefore appeal to the responsibility of all of us - of each of us, colleagues - because we are able to carry forward our values, never failing two principles: attention and determination. There are both demands and I dare say taxes, so that, without risking to fall into any instrumentalization, we can make clarity, identify problems and hypothesize solutions that help the institutions and families of our territories. If there is a commitment on the part of all the groups to work in this Commission in such a spirit, combining in a balanced way the careful sensitivity imposed by the affair and the responsible determination to work in the interests of the families involved and of the whole territory, then our commitment will be equal to the role that has been entrusted to us by those who have allowed us to be in this House. Mr President, it is in this spirit and in this spirit that the Group of the Party of European Socialists strongly expresses its support for the establishment of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the events that have taken place in the community of Il Forteto. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Nencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u45	VESCOVI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Senators, I promise that I will gladly listen to the speeches made by my colleague and Senator Nencini. In fact, it seems to me to be, sometimes, unbelieving, because I remember that on 18 August 2013 the secretary of the regional PD, the secretary of the PD of Florence and the city secretary of Mugello expressed different opinions, saying no to the commissioning of the structure! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S, FI-BP and FdI Groups.]] I have read the papers many times, I have listened and I have been able to participate in the commission established by the Tuscany Region and I asked myself a question: how could something like this happen in Tuscany. Then, Mr President, in the end I will give you the answer I gave myself by reading the documents. I do not come to talk about the suffering of those 60 children, abused and abused and who knew that, if they had spoken of what was going on, they would be subjected to violence. The system is this, because we must be clear: in 1978 the two subjects, Roberto Fiesoli (one who called himself "prophet") and his friend Luigi Goffredi, were first arrested and, after a few months, released. Later children were again entrusted to that community: this is the serious thing! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and FI-BP Groups.]] We must remember that in 1985 - perhaps you have forgotten this - there was a condemnation of violence and acts of libido against children. Many of us are parents: would you give your children to two subjects condemned with a sentence passed to be judged? Not affected by a guarantee notice, but by a judgment passed in 1985. From 1985 to 2013-2014 there was the silence of those who had roles of responsibility in that Region, in that Province, in that city. The institutions knew that there had been that conviction, but the court of minors continued to give children in foster care to this community. And this community did a lot of things. That's the big deal. In 2000, Europe decided to condemn us, with a penalty of 200 million old lire. The Court of Strasbourg condemned us because it asked: how is it possible for Italy to continue to entrust children to that community with a judgment passed in court? And children went before the Court and showed that, from 1985 onwards, even after this sentence, they were raped. Then we have to ask ourselves why a civilized country does not consider past judgments in court. Then you made a change of course, which is acceptable and proper. But remember how many times you have invited them to your events; how many times have you seen in the City of Florence certain subjects, come to these institutions to present books, with their idea gender, with the idea of changing the traditional family in the functional family. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups.]] Reading the acts, it is understood that not the judge, but these two subjects assigned the children and decided to whom to give them. And the father and mother (maybe they indicated them as "babo" and "babba") did not have to have an affective bond, to prove that without an affective bond education was better! But what are we talking about here? And do you know who answered my question about how something like this could happen in Tuscany Region? The prosecutor in the final requirement, when he says that in Tuscany for decades, with reference to certain phenomena, the law of the State has been suspended. That's what the prosecutor says! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and FI-BP Groups.]] And who ruled there? Who represented the institutions? So political responsibility has a first and last name and in this House we have to say it: it is called the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and FI-BP Groups. Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u46	Senator Bishops, however this is the Senate Chamber and not a court and there are no guilty or innocent.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u49	VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Buffoon! Buffoon! FARAONE (PD). Yes, but respect all convictions! Respect even the 49 million! Shame on you! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u50	I would like to draw the House's attention to the importance of the subject we are dealing with. I have already specified that this is not a courtroom, so there are no culprits here but they express ideas. Therefore, allow Senator Rizzotti to carry out her speech. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Mr Rizzotti (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank President Bernini and the Group of the European People's Party for giving me the opportunity to speak on the measure before this House. This measure is very close to my heart and this branch of Parliament, thanks also to the tenacity of some Members, has already taken action in the last parliamentary term, and has seen everything disappear in the House, perhaps deliberately slowed down. The rapporteur has set out facts which perhaps not everyone has listened to, because there was a bit of inattention, but they have hurt. It is a pity because what has happened in the community "Il Forteto" in its atrocities is unfortunately still known by too few people. It reminds me of the sleep of reason generates monsters, the title of a work of Goya, but in the case of which we are dealing there is not only the sleep of reason. To this has been added a collapse of the institutions, a disappearance of the State, an omerty that has allowed the occurrence of everything that has been established today by a judgment of first instance of the court of Florence. Generally, in the political and media debate we are used to denounce the absence of the State in relation to some cases of organised crime, in some suburbs where the power of the so-called mafias (we know what happens in Rome) is so strong that the State, with its laws and powers, seems to have withdrawn. In the case of the community "Il Forteto" however, the State, referring in particular to the blindness of the judiciary and some institutions, has completely disappeared. In this case, mafias and organized crime had nothing to do with it and there were no wars to be fought even on the military level; there was a simple community of people organized in various subjects, including an agricultural cooperative and a foundation; a community apparently peaceful, but on the borders of which the laws of the State have been suspended for years. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] On the door of this community we stopped without entering, or perhaps without deepening, without questioning why the Prophet continued to direct a community despite the first condemnation in 1978 (Carlo Casini, magistrate at that time, began to deal with the case). Therefore, neither the policy nor the institutions nor the controls of the social services have ever taken responsibility for ascertaining the truth that was denounced by the mothers of some children, and the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights demonstrates this. In short, within this community there was a free zone from which the State had decided to look away, to pretend that this community, these people, but above all what happened in that place, did not exist. Already in 1978, as has been mentioned, Carlo Casini, who was not yet loaned to politics at the time, had opened an investigation explicitly aimed at denouncing a series of abuses that occurred in the community "Il Forteto". Colleagues, we are talking about forty years ago and the abuses that Carlo Casini then denounced were exactly what we are dealing with today. Don't be surprised by the silence of the institutions, because forty years after what has been the path of beginning there are still those who claim that nothing serious has happened there. In these decades, until 2010, we have continued to entrust minors and adults in difficulty to this alleged community: 80 children and adolescents, 14 of whom have committed suicide and 8 others have died drug addicts, isolated, in a state of extreme poverty. It has continued without this community having the requisites, and do you know why? Because we're not talking about a family home, we're not talking about a normal community. These children were entrusted to pseudofamilies, fictitious, fake, functional families, as defined by this community, which prohibited heterosexual relations, in which women and men had to live strictly separate. As Mr Galeotti pointed out, in his requisition, the public prosecutor Galeotti said during the trial: In that community there has been for years a suspension of the laws of the State, all this in a sea of omissions, of silences, which today have helped to form gigantic shadows on the matter to be driven out. And the court of minors in Florence has a grave fault in all this. We are talking about a community that was a sort of Jekyll and Hyde, on the one hand the awards, awards, funding received by the Tuscany Region for €1.254 million, the catwalks of important representatives of the Italian left, D'Alema, Chiti, Camusso, Renzi. But no one noticed? For example, even Pisapia, outgoing mayor of Milan, a member of the college that patronized the "prophet" in Cassazione in 1985 did not remember and does not remember Rosy Bindi, who has visited the "Forteto" several times. I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen - and I would like to reassure my colleague in the Democratic Party - but there is no political exploitation in this horrible affair: we want the truth and those who have committed the facts and those who knew of it pay their debt with justice, like all the victims, all the children have paid for having been entrusted to this monster. [[Applause from the FI-BP, L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and FdI Groups]] A lot of people should be ashamed. I also remember when, in the 16th legislature, the Democratic Party invited Rodolfo Fiesoli to the Senate to present his book. [[Applause from the FI-BP, L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and FdI Groups]] And you tell me no one knew anything? I also remember how the presentation of the book "Setta di Stato" was prevented by the Region of Tuscany at the Salone del libro in Turin in 2017. The Forteto case. Who knows why? [[Applause from the FI-BP, L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and FdI Groups]] I would like to know, on the other hand, who we are to blame for all the complaints, suspicions, the omerty, the absence of controls and checks. Why were the complaints not heard? Where were the social workers, psychologists, psychiatrists, court controllers? And they kept trusting children. In 1985, after his first conviction, Fiesoli left prison and on the same day a child with Down syndrome was entrusted to the community. We are talking about this, ladies and gentlemen, other than witch hunting and political exploitation. Entering with a tense leg: this had to be done by the state. Today this House has a duty to take responsibility, on behalf of the whole country, for the victims of these abuses, which have been proven, not invented. It is our duty, first for our conscience and then for all those we represent, namely the Italians, also because I would like to remind you that the "prophet" of the community "Il Forteto" is free. Although he was finally condemned in December, he is free because there are judicial vices. All right. These boys were obliged to have homosexual relations as a means of purification, they had to reject the family of origin, the woman was considered a harlot who became slave to men for all daily operations. They were forced to have relations with animals, you understand? Or Zoophilia, it's all documented. In the community "Il Forteto" the aberrations also took place with regard to the disabled. I quote a testimony: They put us in front of terrible scenes, to make us live some kind of therapy, according to them. I remember one of the scenes that pushed me out was seeing a disable psychic 28-year-old forced to ingest the feed and defecations of cows from a dog bowl. He threw up and was forced to eat his vomit. The abuse served to terrify people. It is not political exploitation to read the depositions of witnesses. Go and read the testimonies. I would be very surprised if there were anyone in this House who does not feel obliged to vote in favour of the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry, because I believe that it is in everyone's conscience that they want to cast out these shadows. This story is not only a shame for the Forteto. This story is not a shame only for "Il Forteto" (Forteto), it is not a shame only for Tuscany: it is a shame for our country and for this reason it calls us to responsibility. [[Applause from the FI-BP, L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] And I also hope that the Commission will be able to monitor the conditions of workers in the household, whose rules for opening permits should be reviewed in full. Forza Italia will vote strongly in favour of the establishment of this Commission (I believe that no one had any doubts about it), because it must be shed light on the many shadows that have been illuminated only by a courageous press campaign and the opposition's battles in the Tuscany Region, which have been fighting for years for the establishment of a commission of regional inquiry, which has done its job and demonstrated aberrant things. I really hope that, in addition to the direct culprits, they will pay the bill - and I repeat - all those who knew and who kept silent. [[Applause from the FI-BP, M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Everyone's hope is that the people who have held these criminal and unacceptable behaviors will soon be condemned definitively, without legal complications, and that above all we can watch over all other realities such as that of the community "Il Forteto" to prevent our lives from ending when we keep silent in front of the really important things. [[Applause from the FI-BP, M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u53	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, we arrive here today after years of debate. It is true that we must not use the pain of the victims on a political issue; but it is also true, and it is undeniable, that we cannot hide forty years of abuse thinking that it was normal for no one to notice. It is not normal, because when the Fiesoli, in 1979, is arrested and then released, the same day the court entrusts him a minor; this is not possible. There are children who have grown up within this agricultural cooperative. It is an agricultural cooperative, it is not a community to which children were entrusted; children who were then subtrusted, within the members, to functional families. And it's not about homosexual relationships or not. They were forced, this is the problem, there was a manipulation of the mind; this is the most terrible fact. Who gave permission to Fiesoli, the Prophet, to do an educational project within schools (elementary, middle and higher)? Who's responsible? What are they and where are they? They made a career, didn't they? Are they still within the institutions? We have to ask these questions. Have the children who have followed this educational project of the prophecy been monitored? Do we know if they've been harmed? No, because we can't ask ourselves that. The committee of parliamentary inquiry therefore serves this purpose, because despite two regional investigations it did not go any further, it did not want to go any further. It's heavy. For five years I repeated in this House that the first time I met the victims of the community I first apologized. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]] It is a moral excuse that we must all make, because otherwise these are just words in the wind. Victims are entitled not only to the recognition of damage, but also to the moral recognition of society. In fact, they - and also all those who came into contact with them - have suffered damage, because a minor who suffers violence as an adult always has a wound inside, which remains even if he then marries, has children or becomes a grandfather. The Commission of Inquiry therefore also serves this purpose, namely to understand why institutional channels have not been able to listen and act. In the 1980s, despite the condemnation, the agricultural cooperative - I repeat, it is an agricultural cooperative, because it is a fundamental element - worked. It is a productive reality that still works today. We must separate what has been the management of Fiesoli and its associates from the current management. It is not enough to change the administrator and the president, as it is necessary to give a precise sign of discontinuity. In fact, if the agricultural cooperative is found guilty and, therefore, has to pay the damages of what has happened within it, it is also right that the current president and administrator asks for the damages and promotes a civil liability action against those who created the damage. However, he does not. Then there's a reason. We need to investigate why and it's not up to us. I hope the Ministry starts the journey. I know they've already gone and they keep going to the Ministry of Economic Development to be heard. We know very well that when it comes to cooperatives we are hiding behind solidarity, mutualism, this and more. We have to stop here. I hope that today, beyond political positions, all of us, by voting in favour of the establishment of this Commission of inquiry, will be able to look at ourselves better, because we are all guilty and responsible. Objection and majority today must take one step further and finally put an end to this absurd hidden affair for over forty years. For these reasons, the Movimento 5 Stars is proud to say yes and vote in favour of the bill under consideration. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u54	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committees on the Environment and Constitutional Affairs have not yet completed their examination of the proposals for the constitution of the parliamentary committees of inquiry on the earthquake in L'Aquila and the feminicide, on the agenda for today's sitting. Therefore, the discussion of these measures will take place on another date.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u58	Parent (PD). Mr President, I would also like to speak on behalf of my colleague, Senator Pittella, and other colleagues who have signed the parliamentary question 3-00154 I would like to ask the Ministers of Cultural Heritage, Economic Development and Public Administration to answer a question they take on, President, as a matter of urgency because it concerns 1,050 young people who have carried out the national civil service at the Ministry of Cultural Heritage, who tomorrow, 12 September 2018, end their experience. These girls and these boys, in order to have access to the ban, have had to pass a selective test and in this year of duration of the civil service they have acquired considerable skills in the field, enhancing also our artistic heritage, given the lack of staff that exists in the Ministry of Cultural Heritage, as also remembered by the Minister. The Minister undertook, in the Chamber of Deputies, to hire staff. These young people of ours deserve attention and to see recognized and valued their journey, in order to treasure them in the field of training and work. We therefore urgently ask the Ministers, in addition to the European Year of Cultural Heritage, how they intend to make the most of their journey, since Law No 106 of 2014 declines concrete actions, and how not to disperse the plurality of knowledge and skills acquired by girls and boys during the national civil service projects carried out within the Ministry, also since in the definition of the notices for new recruitments it is prescribed by law that it is possible to foresee as a title of preference the having carried out universal civil service. Mr President, I would like to appeal to the Ministers through you. Most of these young volunteers were set up in a network and addressed a letter to the Government. The motto of the European Year of Heritage is "Our heritage: where the past meets the future." Here, let us gather the hopes of these children and respond to their desire for the future with concrete actions. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u59	Thank you, Senator Parente, the Presidency accepts your request. I call on the Members who are leaving this House to do so with respect for those who still have to speak and not to stop at the centre of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u62	BINETTI (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to formally request the answer to Question No 4-00182, which is of particular interest in the light of the debate in this House this afternoon. It is a minor, who has been placed twice in a kind of family home, once in one community, then in another, and in both cases we have raised the problem of the response, the functionality of these structures to the real needs of children and the concrete attention of their parents. I believe that if we want to value this afternoon's debate, not only on the seriousness of the facts that have been established, but on the previous silences that have occurred to us, we need to take more account of the questions that we are presenting on the basis of concrete demands and actual facts. I am a witness to the request in the previous legislature that a Commission of Inquiry be set up on how these children were accepted and treated in these structures and to have received no reply or reception. I really believe that these questions for the sake of respect for the rights of minors and also for events such as those we have denounced this afternoon, in such a collegial way and in the full sharing of all, could have had - and I assure you - a different answer, or at least five years earlier, if they had been taken into consideration: these are questions on the same subject that are in the House's proceedings and of requests which are in the Commission's proceedings on the protection of minors. Minors cannot be left to the indifference of institutions, which are just as dramatic as cruelty, not only of that prophecy, but of other people who could behave in this way. We all need to develop a different sensitivity to this. For this reason, I am sorry that there is no Undersecretary for justice, but I had already talked about this with the Minister of Justice, it would be worth giving a documented, articulated and more respectful response to the problems we pose, because each of us, as a senator or deputy, when he presents a problem does so in the light of verified facts, of documented suffering and in the hope that at least in these classrooms justice can have a different and more human name. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u65	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 27 August, at the age of 49, our colleague from the House of Deputies and our friend Iolanda Nanni left. Iolanda has left us inherited, in addition to her smile, a clear example of civic activism, enterprising and responsible, full of sensitivity and passion. Before she was elected to the Lombard Regional Council in 2013, she was the founder and spokesperson of the provincial commuter coordination of the province of Pavia, her homeland, where she had waged important battles on mobility, environment, health, common goods, equal opportunities. In September 2017, a few months after the end of the X Consiliature in the Lombardy Region, which visited it spokesperson battle and determined for almost five years, announced his withdrawal: I apologize to all the citizens of the country and Lombardy for not being able to take care of you in the next few times. I have serious health problems and I must fight a personal battle against an infamous enemy, who as a good warrior I have every intention of winning and defeating, and then return, as always, to your service. Rehabilitated, she had then resumed her political commitment to the Movement and had been elected to Parliament in March last, contributing, with her usual tenacity, to the work of the Environment Commission, territory and public works of the Chamber of Deputies. Iolanda taught us not to give up, to always seek the truth, to fight alongside the citizens. It leaves us an important legacy: its example and its work, to be carried out with all our commitment, for the environment and for the health of all. I don't ask for a minute's silence, because I know he would have preferred a little applause. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency agrees with your words, Senator. [[The President and the Assembly stand. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u68	Mr Pinotti (PD). Mr President, I would like to take advantage of this speech to thank the President of the Senate, of whom you are now speaking, for the words you said at the beginning of your work on Genoa and the needs of the city after the tragedy. Genoa is an injured city; Genoa is not only a problem of Genoa or Liguria, but a national theme, a national emergency. I have to say in this House that I find the spirit of the city very positive, which is trying to do everything to get back up with courage and self-denial. There is a very positive job done by local authorities in an absolute emergency, as you can imagine. I am not just talking about the displaced people, who are finding their homes, fortunately, but who would like to recover at least their most expensive objects; not just economic activities: think of all those in the red zone, completely isolated and without any possibility of having the least income that allows to go on. Think of the port, the industrial activities: the city is completely separated and divided. There is a problem in the movement of the city, a problem that already casts a significant part of it. It is necessary to remove the rubble, disassemble the existing parts of the bridge. An alternative road on the left and right bank of Polcevera must be quickly created. We need to restore the traffic in Perrone; we need to restore the railway line, which is central today. Local public transport needs to be improved, as well as health services: today moving from Val Polcevera for those who, for example, have a health problem, with the journey times becomes dramatic, so these situations must also be reorganized. Above all, a new bridge must be rebuilt soon. Speaking a little to all the actors who are experiencing this tragedy, what they ask are certain times, so as not to lose their economic activities, in order to be able to recover. So, I think it's important not to do or see ideological dances, but all of us work together for what this city needs. I am also convinced of Gronda and the Third Pass, but now we need to get it started as quickly as possible. What do I ask, then? A decree has been announced which should arrive on Friday at the Council of Ministers. I call for the presidency of the Senate to be a bearer of the need for a special law towards the Government because it is necessary to streamline the procedures for entrusting the work; we need to suspend the payments of taxes, mortgages, taxes for the people affected; it is necessary, in order to prevent this collapse from causing the collapse for the future of Genoa; it needs a special economic zone, with specific measures of economic and fiscal character and specific social shock absorbers for those who are losing their jobs, for companies that can no longer give work to those who worked before for them. I ask that, even in the light of the words with which we opened this sitting, there be the broadest cohesion of all political forces in order to make the voice of the Senate heard also towards the Government, which calls for maximum commitment and speed. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u69	Senator Pinotti, thank you and I welcome your request.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u72	CRUCIOLI (M5S). Mr President, I was elected to the uninomial college in Genoa in Val Polcevera and I felt obliged, in the immediacy of the collapse of the bridge, to go to the place and interrupt everything I was doing (family and holidays). There I saw a reality that can't be imagined in a science fiction movie. However, I felt with my hand the pride of being next to a government that did the same: it rushed to the site of the event and immediately said very strong and courageous words to try to prevent this from happening again in the future. With this premise I am sure that the measure that will arrive for Genoa Thursday or Friday will be strong and courageous. We, like all the Genoese MPs of the Movimento 5 Stars, together with the Regional and Municipal Councils, have contributed with concrete proposals, which we are sure to see transposed into this decree-law. We will ensure in any case that all entities - therefore Region, Municipality and also Government - do everything that needs to be done so that Genoa does not die. The risk is real: Genoa can withdraw over the years, because in addition to the dead, in addition to the symbolic wound, there is a daily weariness of businesses, workers and families. What they did before in a certain time, they do now with times doubled, because Genoa is split not in two, but in four. The north-south and east-west roads are completely paralyzed. So I would like to thank the President for his attention. I thank the Government and invite the parliamentarians of all political forces to do what will be in their power to ensure that Genoa does not fall into oblivion. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u75	BOTTO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too, like the previous speaker, have been from Genoa and I express my closeness to all the people of Genoa who have been marred by this tragic event, which has broken not only a way of communication, not only the lives of the victims, but also those of businesses and a whole series of related activities. As a Genoese Member, but above all as a citizen, I would like to thank the Government for taking the situation straight away with firmness and courage. As Mr Crucioli has already said, we have been active, both as local groups and as parliamentarians. I too wanted to express all my sorrow and great closeness to my people. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u76	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-34.ana.u77	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 12 September, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 6.30 p.m.
