ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.42 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the bill No 717-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. Pursuant to Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, the Senate discusses and deliberates only on the changes made by the Chamber of Deputies, subject to the final vote on the single article of the bill of conversion. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the President of the First Permanent Commission, Senator Borghesi, reported on the Commission's work and the general discussion took place. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u6	I inform you that the Presidency - and I am distributing it - has received the opinions of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u9	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, in accordance with Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure, the proposal we are putting forward is not to go over the articles because, as we have already had ample opportunity to explain during the first reading in this House of the measure under consideration and then in the long (but not long enough, for the reasons we explained yesterday) work of the Commission, this decree-law contains many elements of negativity for all the reasons that we will try to present today. Meanwhile, due to the misuse of the instrument of the derogation, which on decisive issues, even such as the health of children, does not actually extend existing rules and how the title would induce us to think, but changes them deeply, but also due to the ambiguity in the substance that the measure continues to recall and that leaves in reality in the country. For all these reasons we oppose the definitive conversion of the decree-law in question and therefore, pursuant to Rule 96 of our Rules of Procedure, we request that the articles be not examined.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u10	Pending the expiry of the sitting of 20 minutes from the beginning of Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.48 a.m. and resumed at 10.02 p.m.) Let's get back to work. I would like to point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles, made by Senator Ferrari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's sitting was attended by the group leaders, Mr Marcucci, Mr De Petris and Mr Bernini, who put questions to the Presidency concerning the examination of the decree-law on the agenda. Firstly, with regard to the consequences of the failure to submit the technical report on the quantification of the financial costs of the amendments, it is recalled that Article 76- bis, paragraph 2 of the Regulation provides for the mandatory nature of this report, in order to be impossible, only for amendments of government initiative, while the following paragraph 3 entrusts the decision on whether or not to request the Government's technical report to the discretionary evaluation of the Committees of merit or the Budget Committee. Moreover, where the technical report is not required by the Rules of Procedure, the Budget Committee nevertheless has its own instruments of assessment which could directly lead to the expression of contrary opinions under Article 81, third paragraph, of the Constitution as autonomous determinations of the Commission itself rather than as an automatic consequence of the failure to submit the technical report by the Government. With regard to the comments made on the overall treatment of a plurality of amendments in the Budget Commission, it is noted that the one referred to in Rule 40 of the Rules of Procedure is an advisory and not a substantive examination. In accordance with established practice, in consultation the evaluation of the Budget Commission is carried out by means of amendments with homogeneous features in terms of financial coverage. Following this classification, the opinion is not given in part on the individual amendments, as in the relevant Commissions, but is adopted overall with a single determination taking into account the different issues submitted to the Commission's assessment. More generally, with regard to the procedures for carrying out the work in the reference and consultative fora, the Presidencies of the 1st and 5th Commission have obviously taken into account the timetable laid down in the Assembly's schedule, including with regard to the fixing of the deadline for tabling amendments and the progress of work within the Commissions. On this and on other issues, however, I would like to promote a meeting with the Presidents of all the Permanent Commissions. Before moving on to the amendments, the Presidency, in accordance with the provisions of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, declares that amendments 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 2.1, 6.1, 6.2, 6.164, 6.165, 9.14, 9.19, 9.20, 9.24, 9.25, 9.26 and 13.1 as well as the agendas of 2.54, 2.55, 2.56, 2.57, 7.78, 7.79, 880, 8.81 and 8.82 as they are not directly related to the amendments approved by the House, are inadmissible under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure. I also declare that amendments 13,300 and 13,301, tabled directly to the Assembly, in accordance with the same provisions of the Rules of Procedure, are inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u11	Mr President, as the Fratelli d'Italia Group has already done at first reading, we have tabled a series of amendments and agendas to Article 1, with which we hope, as far as the Provinces are concerned, to return to the direct election of the President and the Provincial Council. We have also tabled an agenda for the so-called'spalma-debit' measure, which relates to institutions in distress or in the accompanying rebalancing procedure. We believe that a clear word should be said about this, in order to ensure that the debt accumulated over the years by improvised administrations does not fall on future generations and also on the directors who, even if they are not guilty, would be in a position to not be able to administer. In these cases, it is not possible to dedicate financial commitments to investment expenditure and therefore they would essentially manage the institutions only with regard to compulsory expenditure. Since many of these entities which are in a state of disrepute have a very important heritage, we believe that the path to be followed is quite different, that is, that the central state must clear this debt and ensure that the administrations can operate in the fullness of their functions, because through the mere shifting of the debt of these entities, they are condemned forever to the inability to give answers to the citizens. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u12	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the Government representative to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u13	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments and agendas, with the exception of the G1,300 agenda, by Senator Iannone, on which I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u14	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.8 tabled by Senators Iannone and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.9, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u15	I would ask for the vote and I would like to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u17	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, we are faced with the issue now well known in the national panorama - ahinoi - of the so-called ban on the outskirts. It is a ban - everyone knows it in our nation, even the stones - that was strongly wanted by the central-left government, by the Democratic Party in particular. This is an absolutely extraordinary and innovative ban, starting from the theme of the outskirts, safety, regeneration, redevelopment and above all attention to the last in our society. It is an innovative ban because there is a new approach to urban planning, which must be not expansive, but regenerative, not top-down, but participatory and so on. It is new, moreover, because it had never been seen in the history of the Republic that a Government made available directly to the Municipalities own funds for 2.98 billion euros, through an extraordinary project of participation. Well, President, it had never even been seen in our country that conventions already signed and signed, that they had seen and that they saw the registration of the same Court of Auditors, were deleted with two lines inserted within a measure such as that at our examination. These are measures which have already received the green light of the two branches of Parliament with the law of stability and, of course, have already seen the implementing decrees. (at 10.19 a.m.) (Ferrazzi followed). They have already seen the conventions, which have been signed by 96 mayors - also of metropolitan cities - of 326 municipalities throughout Italy, who presented themselves with the tricolor band to the then President of the Council Gentiloni. So, rightly, with great satisfaction from all, conventions have been signed, which, colleagues and colleagues, are real contracts; and I do not remember ever having seen that a contract that the State signs with the highest representatives of the local communities, that is, the mayors, is torn down in this way. We immediately clarify some fake news that have been told in recent months: there is no decision of the Constitutional Court that defines the illegality of the provision that provides for the allocation of 2.1 billion; the Court instead, relative to the 800 million previewed by paragraph 140 of the law of budget, establishes a partial unconstitutionality for the part relative to the understanding, that however - he adds - it is immediately sanitable through the convocation of the unified conference, the insertion of this topic on the agenda and the agreement from all. The ANCI has acted with great responsibility over the course of these weeks and, of course, the president of this association, in representing everyone, could not help but say that it was a 'dexterity theft'; despite this, however, he has sought an agreement and has repeatedly urged the Minister for Regional Affairs and the Self-Government to put the item on the agenda of the Conference of 6 September, so that this could be remedied in every respect. Well, in the convocation of September 3, there is no trace of the insertion, even if the president of the ANCI had formally requested it. As it happens, it is inserted now, after the milleproroghe, with a single staff, has cut 1.6 billion euros. Another fake news: "Certainly," says the Government, "but we have allocated the money for the administrative surpluses." Colleagues and colleagues, the money for the administration's surpluses - according to the two judgments of the Constitutional Court - are of the Municipalities, not of the Government: there would be no need for them to be given. In conclusion, Mr President, the ANCI has moved with great responsibility (even too much, according to some). The first decree-law to include funding was this, so our amendments go in exactly that direction. Of course, in the course of this debate, we will call for a review of the operation, which is so important to our mayors and to 23 million of our citizens. We expect from the Government the same determination that we will have in defending the interests of our citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u20	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, the previous senator has already made a number of comments, which I agree with, but I would like to make a more related argument to the work we are doing. There has been a meeting with the President-in-Office of the Council and this is a thousand-pronged measure: the first has committed itself and the Chamber has modified the second. It is not clear why the choice to recover and clarify has not been made, since the pronunciations of government representatives on this point have been very contradictory and discordant. Having said that, since we are in the third examination and cannot change the measure, we had proposed in the Commission an agenda which, starting from the meeting of the President of the Council with the ANCI and reaffirming the commitment he himself made to the Government to proceed with a measure to remedy the situation. There has been a negative response with an absurd argument that we must trust the President-in-Office of the Council. However, it was not an element of distrust, but a commitment established by the Assembly to be able to give a solution that concerns the municipalities and the relevant problems of the country. I would like to point out that this multi-pronged measure has nothing to do with extensions, and that there is no intervention on the essential issues. There is no more negative element than to say something and behave exactly the opposite. I hope that my colleagues in the majority will reflect. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u23	BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, let us be clear about the ban on the outskirts. In front of me, on the left side of the Senate, they sit - or should sit, as Senator Renzi is not here today - a former President of the Council, some ministers of the government Gentiloni Silveri, many Presidents of the Commission and various Secretaries. I have before me all those who have written the ban on the outskirts, those who have dictated the rules and who have evaluated the projects. So not exactly first-class parliamentarians. Will you tell me today that no one has noticed that these funds are being moved? After you have all voted for it in the Commission and in this House unanimously, do you come and tell us that you did not notice that the funds were being moved? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] For the second part, in order to understand without any misunderstanding that now famous of the 96 municipalities, the funds could not be paid out; we did not say that, but the Constitutional Court. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] We did not invent it: the decision No. 74 of 2018 of the Constitutional Court did not write it myself. But you didn't have the courage to tell the mayors what you did. The government intervened with skill and competence, unlocking the funds not only for the 96 municipalities of the ban, but for all the municipalities of Italy that have a surplus; the same municipalities that you have mortified for years, that you have massacred of austerity and cuts! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] And perhaps today you have noticed that the outskirts are not just in the big cities. It's no coincidence that you voted unanimously on the amendment, dear Presidents and former Presidents and so many exes who are there; you have done so convincingly and with a great career, but the game in the end got out of hand because some of your mayor friends, looking for the controversy, tried to understand what really happened. Just to understand, I don't know if it's a method, since you did it with the cuts in the disability fund. By now it is late, your game is under everyone's eyes; for the umpteenth time the king is still naked. So, in order not to lose face, you are reciting in great pain the part of the victims of a system clumsily created by you; you did it only. Now, we're good, and we think that making a mistake is human and that it can happen to everyone a little bit. But today since they have ruled the country for seven years with Bulgarian percentages, being able to do anything and more and not doing so, they come here to tell us that they have solutions for everything; I would shut up instead of them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] To conclude, Mr President, today we are resolving the problems that this ban has created and I must say that those who have designed it have been really good, cannot be denied. It was really nice, but I think that somersaults are done at the circus and that within the institutions instead something else is done. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u26	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, frankly, I do not understand the polemical tone of this debate, partly because the mayors know everything. So, it's not like someone went to them to explain that things went differently than they did. Moreover, the Reports of Senate sessions are public and, therefore, here is not that there is a mystery within which dark forces move: everything that happens is aware of everyone. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Then there's a problem here. Misunderstanding, conviction, sentence of the Constitutional Court: everything is held, but today we have only and exclusively one requirement, which should be common to Senator Simone Bossi, who spoke of myself, to me and to all the others in this House: to guarantee the ban on the outskirts for the mayors. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is what is said to have been agreed in the context of a meeting between the mayors of the ANCI and the President of the Council of Ministers - not clandestinely. We simply want there to be no distortion of this. Frankly, what happened seven years ago, in the past, between exes and non exes, doesn't matter. [[Comments from the M5S Group. Applause from the PD Group]] Today we are called to understand only and simply whether we want to postpone these calls or implement them as planned. The misunderstandings are at zero - as they say because, if there have been in the past, today there is the possibility to heal them. If they do not want to be healed, then they were not misunderstandings but they were different opinions, which they want to disguise in this House because we do not have the courage, but not on our part, to tell the truth. [[(Applause from the Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u27	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.9, tabled by Senator Valente and other senators, until the words "fifteen days" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1.10 to 1,193 are therefore excluded. Amendments 1.3, 1.4, 1.5 and 1.6 are inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u30	COMINANCES (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak again on the subject of the suburbs because what we have heard just now deserves some more clout, beyond what Senator Casini has already done. It is useless, in fact, that we hide behind the accusations and behind: You didn't understand it, or you all voted it. This House voted unanimously earlier on an amendment because everyone had understood something that was obviously different. Even the ANCI had not grasped that funds for the outskirts ban were being cancelled. In addition, in the plant that was given to the modification of that article, which erased those resources, it is said that this money is given to all the municipalities and not only to the 96 beneficiaries of that ban. But if we look at what those 140 million are that are given as additional financial spaces to the municipalities to be able to apply further surplus, we see that we are talking about begging. If we divide by 8,000 municipalities, we talk about a ridiculous figure; if we divide in proportion to the population, we are talking about figures still contained. In addition, by releasing these resources in September, we know that they cannot be used by the end of the year, because an executive project must be launched and banned. Therefore these resources will have to be postponed in surplus of administration to next year, when the summary will be approved, probably in April 2019, and only after they can be applied to the budget and investments in the municipalities. So I would invite my fellow senators who say that we cannot benefit so few municipalities, but we must give it to many others, to reason on these elements, because we are talking about fried air, we are talking about very little compared to the important interventions that would instead be carried out by those who won the ban on the outskirts. In addition, in this way an aberrant principle is introduced into our system, for which I believe that several municipalities will then appeal. If you make a public ban, where the State puts resources, and then there are repentances by the State and those conventions are actually cancelled, cancelled or suspended, this is not good. Any ban, from the territories to the European Union, has winners. Those winners have the right to see recognised resources that the ban had made available. We're still in time to put a piece on; think about it, senators. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u31	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7, tabled by Senator Collina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,194, tabled by Senators Iannone and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.1, tabled by Senators Iannone and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1.2 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u34	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, for us this is the last and most extreme attempt we make to reason this majority on the subject of the outskirts. You see, the problem is not so much what we voted for, but what you voted for, because if we didn't vote for it, it was the same thing. So it is your will that needs to be clarified. [[Illarity from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Applause from the PD Group]] Because you're ruling this country, you're ruling it. The citizens, the mayors, everyone wants to know what you want to do when you're governed. In these weeks you have not made it clear to us; as you say, you have said before and then you have said more, but you have never made it clear in the way in which things are clarified in Parliament, that is, by putting them in black and white. There have been meetings, there have been replies in this House, there has been an ANCI meeting with the President-in-Office of the Council, there have been assurances; but there is this stubborn denial to make an agenda that will clarify the government's political will on this issue. That's the point. If we in the Commission have all spoken to try to make up for time, it was also to make the government think about it; to give this majority time to express their will clearly with an agenda that does not necessarily have to be ours: reword it, use the words of the President-in-Office of the Council, you find a way to write back all the speeches made. We're at this point. Our agenda today then has the sense of creating this space that you should seize, but not because you have to say things against us or we have to say things against you. You are ruling and the will of those who govern must be made explicit in relation to these things. If, on the other hand, the will is to say "we demolish everything that has been done before; we remove the whole world; we have to make clean slate; we have to start from scratch," we have seen on many occasions how it ends: reset the world, but sometimes re-presented as a novelty the things that we had already done before. This is also working from a communicative point of view: congratulations, you are good; but today we are also interested in the substance, and the substance on this subject affects the cities, the mayors, the citizens. These are cities, mayors, citizens and suburbs that are governed today by political forces throughout Parliament; they are not our mayors or your mayors: they are our Municipalities, in the sense that they are the Municipalities of all. Beyond all this, there was a first step which allowed us to understand a number of possibilities and which, over time, has caused some ambiguity that existed in that amendment to be resolved; then there was a path of recovery directly with the mayors, not with the political forces but directly with those involved in this ban on the outskirts. What problem is there today to rewrite an agenda that puts the solution, the orientation, what the government intends to do on this issue in black and white? I think we couldn't put this on the field any more. There is still the possibility of doing this within the thousand-pronged decree and this is what we ask: clarify the government's will on the outskirts ban [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u37	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would just like to say to my colleagues in the opposition that it is not necessary to vote on an agenda, because everything that has been said during the summer and all the controversy that has been going on over the last twenty days does not take into account the amendment that we all adopted at first reading in the Senate. This amendment stipulates that the effectiveness of the conventions concluded - to reassure the speech of the conventions - is simply postponed to 2020 (it is not deleted), without prejudice to the overall allocation allocated to them. The amendment is clear: the resources of the outskirts call have not been deleted, they have not been frozen, but postponed to 2020. Then it must be considered the ANCI and the meetings that are there; some municipalities have anticipated and there are also cases limit and extremes on which the Government has given full willingness to intervene and make sure that they are resolved [[Comments of Senators Collina and Mirabelli]] ), as emerged in the meeting that the President of the Council had with the ANCI to reassure the Municipalities about all this shit that was put up (I don't know by whom, but little interested me). I also want to make a point. It is said that we have given small coins to small municipalities, wondering what they can do with 140 million euros until 2018. Meanwhile, the 140 million euro goes to the following year, on which there is therefore 320 million euro, while for 2020 there are 350 and for 2021 there are 220. If we add them to more than one billion euros available to small municipalities and, since in Italy there are 8,000 municipalities and there are not only the capital municipalities [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] , I think that obviously many small municipal administrations, including the PD (since it governs so many), will be the first to be happy with that amendment, which you voted simply because you read it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u40	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, this debate is unique. Senator Romeo said we voted for this amendment. It is true, but I repeat - just go and check - that the representatives of the Government on this amendment have given very different interpretations, do you find? Yes. I would like to give an example: it is in the Reports and my colleagues in the 5th Commission who are well aware of this: the Undersecretary Garavaglia, a person of great competence whom I esteem and respect, explained to us and gave his interpretation. I immediately said in the Commission that that interpretation was acceptable, but that it was necessary to be careful because another interpretation had been given in the Government, namely that everything was blocked. I make a proposal, as I did in the 5th Commission, so that the passage of the measure into this House makes sense; it will make sense for the Senate to give substantive answers, regardless of the controversy and political clashes, all of which are legitimate. Do we want to solve all the problems? We write an agenda in which the Government undertakes to follow up the meeting between the President Conte and the ANCI and to immediately issue a measure that will definitively resolve the issue. What's the matter? The polemics before you will continue to do so, there will be a thousand responsibilities, but we must give an answer of certainty. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, we will demonstrate that, in addition to confronting each other, we can also do something useful and give a common response when the objectives are common. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u41	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.2 tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1.3 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u44	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I share some of the reasoning made by the President of the League Group and the consequence was precisely the fact (and if we respect this institution, from there we must start) that on that amendment the Senate voted unanimously, that is, in practice he said to the Government: "Dear Government, make an evaluation of the projects and accompany the municipalities to the last, until what it will do the hardest, so that the projects are done well, for the good of the cities and for the respect of what we are committed to doing in the individual conventions. In the meantime, we don't take the money to residue, we give you the power to take care of it and give it to small municipalities or, in any case, to all municipalities that have a surplus. Now, a political fact has happened here - we have all politicized it - of institutional value: the Senate had voted this way. Therefore, there is no other place than this House that can come out of this affair by marking another institutional step consistent with the first, which is the approval of an agenda where, in the least general way possible - I use these words, President - it is acknowledged that the President of the Council, on behalf of the majority and of the whole Government, wants to take this matter seriously, as we did in this House two months ago. If so, let's rewrite it together. We still have agendas that can be used as a basis to rewrite it together. But if that is not the case and there is no intention, what should we think? That, in fact, you do not agree on what the President-in-Office of the Council has committed himself to, so much so that you are not able to translate it into an even general agenda today? I think we need some clarity, too. However, let us forget the judgment that each of us has on the ambiguity of today and the past. This House voted unanimously and now asks you not to win, but to grant this House, out of respect for this institution, the opportunity to vote on an agenda that says: the Senate then interpreted it this way and now accompanies the work of the Government, to ensure that in every city that has signed the conventions, those projects are carried out for the good of our community. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u45	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.3 tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.4 tabled by Senator Mirabelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1.5 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u48	MANCA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I believe that it is incomprehensible, in the context of the preparation of the budget law, not to work together to relaunch investment. It is, moreover, incomprehensible that this Government and the majority that support it, affected by a maniacal blindness to erase the actions of previous governments, do not take into account that you can have different ideas, objectives and programs, but that when it is at stake the growth of communities and of the country you should give a common and shared response. In this House we have voted for an amendment that has not deleted the resources, it is true, but it has zeroed the spaces for their implementation. At this moment, Italian municipalities - there are 396, not a few capitals and concern 20 million inhabitants, not friends of the PD - are blocked in front of implementation projects: that is, you can not create works of regeneration, of mending, of re-use of territory, of redevelopment of peripheral areas to create public spaces. This is true in Bologna, Milan, Turin, Rome, Rimini, Modena, Ferrara, in all our communities. We find ourselves blocked by a shortsightedness and the decree-law of extension of the terms, which has always represented something that adds, offers an opportunity more to the country, in this case postpones agreements in existence between your President of the Council and the Italian Municipalities, unfortunately damaging and resetting rights and leaving alone also the populations affected by the earthquake. I think it would be very important for us to find a solution in the general interest of the country. That is what we have been asking you for months; we do not understand the reasons why we cannot share an agenda in the general interest of the country. The Italian Government is not asked to oppose the previous governments, but is asked to resolve the problems of families and businesses. We have been available to all of this for months, we do not understand the reasons for the resistance and we do not want to have a retrothinking, on which I conclude: that you want to act ad personam, depending on who governs the communities. The resources are there, but you have reset the spaces and we do not want to be faced with something that harms the constituent principles of this country, which are inspired by loyal collaboration: the institutions are of everyone, regardless of the political color of those who govern them. These are fundamental principles. We would not like to think badly, but we will watch and not allow not only a block of investments, but also a subsequent action (in fact, we would not understand the reasons why we cannot agree today) to evaluate the merits, depending on who governs, of the projects functional to the growth of our communities. In that case, we will make a very hard opposition, because at stake are the credibility and seriousness of the democratic institutions of the country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u49	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.5, tabled by Senator Rampi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.6 tabled by Senator Misiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). (The sitting was suspended at 10.58 a.m.) (The sitting was suspended at 10.58 a.m.) I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.7 tabled by Senator Iori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.8, presented by Senator Alfieri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.9 tabled by Senator Iori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.10, tabled by Senator Bini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Bonifazi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda G1.11. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.12, tabled by Senator Messina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda G1.13, tabled by Senator Iori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.14, tabled by Senator Bini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.15, tabled by Senator Collina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda G1.16, tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.17, tabled by Senator Marino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.18, tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda G1.19, tabled by Senator Rossomando and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.20, tabled by Senator Collina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.21, presented by Senator Alfieri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.22, presented by Senator Valente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Stefano and other senators to vote by a simultaneous ballot on the agenda G1.23, which was tabled by Senator Stefano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.24, tabled by Senator Margiotta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.25, presented by Senator Magorno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.26, tabled by Senator Pharaoh and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.27, tabled by Senator Astorre and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.28, tabled by Senator Marino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.29, presented by Senator Verducci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.30, presented by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.31, presented by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.32, tabled by Senator Bini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.33, presented by Senator Richetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.34, tabled by Senator Sbrollini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.35, tabled by Senator Rojc and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.36, presented by Senator Alfieri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.37, tabled by Senator Vattuone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1.38 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u52	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask a question, especially to colleagues who have had experience in the territories: if we do not solve the problem we are facing here, who should we address? The "heavenly corte" or the CONI? This is where the problem has arisen and this is where a solution must be found. And since I believe in a secular reading, which goes into the matter, we need to know that what we invest in favour of cities, as De Rita taught us, is worth ten times more as a multiplication effect. What you invest in the purchase of goods and services doesn't give back anything more, what you invest in arms spending doesn't give back anything more, but what you invest in cities does have a multiplier effect for ten. We must know that in the Italian cities, in the last twenty years, no longer has there been a planned investment of this size, this ambition and this consistency. Let's agree, then, let's find a way not to block procedures, knowing that procedures are not a prerogative of politics. The procedures are of the order, they do not stop because of politics. This is a teaching that sees us committed to observing the whole coherent history of the last fifty years, from this point of view. I have also ruled institutional realities that they had under local authorities and never procedures have been swallowed for reasons of partisan interest: never has this happened! [[Applause from the PD Group]] That is why I would like to call for the intervention of those who, in this House, have had experience of territorial government. We know that cities mean cultural and sporting vitality. Let us think of Abruzzo: it is 63 million euros, which give rise to a multiplier effect of 600 million euros. They serve the Eagle, to sew what the earthquake has separated and spaced, in Teramo, Pescara, Chieti, but also in other parts of Italy, the suburbs finally have customized tools. Dear Senator colleagues, especially the League (which seems to me to be the most intervening ones), we give rise to further coverage in the future, if there is a desire to identify additional cities covered financially and administratively, but we do not start from scratch every time. The cities, as Tocqueville told us, were born with God, the other thrones were invented by man. There is everyone's life in the cities, there are everyone's positions and it is not possible to conduct such an uninterested course, such as the one we have also seen in the Commission. I therefore call on you to vote on an agenda, which will be precise and detailed when it comes to effectiveness. Keep in mind that there is also a principle of legitimate expectation, because a municipality may have resulted in procedures and activation of the contractor's choice. There it is expected, now, that the yards will leave and it is not possible that, in order to widen the audience of the beneficiaries, it will question what has been done so far. For this reason I expect here, in the place where the nation is represented and its interests and therefore also the interests of the cities, to produce a way out of a kind of mess, I hope involuntarily, that has been created. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u55	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I am glad that the PD are dealing with cities, since in Turin they owed us EUR 60 million for the recalculation of the IMU and did not give them to us, while they gave them to other cities administered by them, to the face of private, clientele and party issues! [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u56	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.38, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u57	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Follina-Tarzo" in Follina, in the province of Treviso, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u58	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.39, presented by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.40, tabled by Senator Collina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.41, tabled by Senator Collina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.42, presented by Senator Ferrari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.43, presented by Senator Ferrari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.44, tabled by Senator Cirinna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.45, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.46, presented by Senator Magorno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.47, presented by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.48, tabled by Senator Cirinna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.49, tabled by Senator Bini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.50, tabled by Senator Bini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.51, presented by Senator Parrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.52, tabled by Senator Taricco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.53, tabled by Senator Collina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda of G1,300, tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Since the amendment and agendas referred to in Article 2 of the Decree-Law are inadmissible, we proceed to the examination of the agendas referred to in Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be explained, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u59	Mr President, I am against all the agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u60	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G5.59, presented by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G5.60, presented by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda of G5.61, tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G5.62, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G5.63, presented by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G5.64, presented by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G5.65, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G5.66, presented by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G5.67, tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G5.68, tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u61	The opinion was opposed to all the amendments tabled to Article 6, as well as to the agenda, except for the G6.77, signed by Bernini, which was accepted as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, I warn you that the requested number of senators has tabled a request for a secret ballot pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure for amendments 6.4, 6.5, 6.6, 6.7, 6.142, 6.143, 6.144, 6.145 and 6.159. This request shall be justified by reference to the second paragraph of Article 32 of the Constitution. We had already discussed it the previous time: the request is not admissible, as the amendments do not affect the rights protected by the second paragraph of Article 32 of the Constitution, but rather concern the right to access education, protected by Article 34 of the Constitution, since these proposals are intended to modify the extension of the replacement declaration of the documentation proving the carrying out of compulsory vaccinations, to be submitted to schools and educational services of children. Since Article 34 of the Constitution is not covered by the provisions of Article 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, the request cannot be accepted for the purposes of granting a secret vote. I would also remind you that, already during the first reading examination of the Decree-Law, at its meeting on 3 August 2018, the Presidency had not admitted the secret vote, requested with the same reasons, on an amendment concerning the extension of a deadline for access to the school of children related to the fulfilment of the vaccination obligations.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u65	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I do not understand the decision, as I do not understand it in our previous request. I also have a point to make, which is to refer to previous situations, to the so-called jurisprudence or, in any case, to the way in which it has been decided to proceed in the past, when we are setting them up today, since there is a new regulation. So I'm very worried. I am also very concerned about the decision you took and the speech you made in relation to the vote on the 100 amendments that were made in the 5th Commission. You have set a precedent today, which is worrying because, in the meantime, the Rules of Procedure have been radically amended, Mr President. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And today the debate in the Senate House takes on ways that are radically different from the previous ones, of which I have nevertheless asked to be drafted because it does not appear to me that 100 different amendments - among other things, put to the vote in the House - have been put to the vote at the same time. But I am going back to the substance of the issue we are discussing. I remind you that the request for a secret vote, pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, must be accepted or rejected regardless of the form of the act to which the resolution refers. No matter what. It is not that all that the Lords have put into a decree of extension should actually be interpreted as an extension: in this decree-law there are things that have nothing to do with extensions and for there to be an extension there must be a time limit for the initial rule. I repeat, Mr President, please listen to me: for there to be an extension, the original measure must have a time limit, there cannot be an extension unless there is a time limit in the original measure. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Article 113 says very clearly that the form of the act is insignificant. I repeat: the form of the act is insignificant; this is obvious in order not to frustrate the very applicability of Article 113 (4). It is a different decision, the one you took on 3 August, on the grounds that there was an extension of a time limit that was not in fact there, given that Article 3, paragraph 3, first sentence, of Decree-Law No 73 of 7 June 2017. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You must read the original rule to say whether this is an extension or not, and this is not an extension, absolutely not; at most it was a postponement of the application of provisions. Any other decision would be tantamount to introducing into parliamentary practice an instrument for the permanent circumvention of art. Article 113 (4) which would render the same effect of that rule null and void. These amendments affect civil and ethical social relations, as referred to in the second paragraph of Article 32 of the Constitution, as clearly can be seen from the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 5 of 18 January 2018. [[Applause from the PD Group]] A very recent judgment, Mr President, which states that the provisions on enrolment and compulsory education are general rules on education, in fact they aim to ensure that school attendance takes place in safe conditions for everyone's health. Mr President, we are talking about this, we are talking about social ethical issues, we are talking about the safety of citizens, about choices that put the lives of our children at risk. [[Applause from the PD Group]] She wants to prevent this House, with an interpretation that is at least doubtful, certainly forced, from voting by secret ballot and that individual Members have the right to look within their consciences, to make their own assessments and also to be able not to respect the shameful indications that their parties are giving them. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You are preventing the individual Member from exercising his or her activities! This is unacceptable, and the Offices are making a mistake on the interpretation they gave you this time. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I would ask that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure be convened to address this issue, because I do not accept that this situation should be closed down in a simplistic manner. [[Live applause from the PD Group. Some PD Senators stand up.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u66	Colleagues, I understand that we can debate and interpret a rule in a different way here. I would just like to point out, and it is not a question of bureaucratic-formal nature, that Article 6 (as it is written in the title) speaks of extending time limits in the field of education and universities. Therefore, it is the very title of Article 6 that makes this provision interpret in a certain way. ( [[Protests from the PD Group]] On the interpretation, I believe that any interpretation can also have its foundation. I understand: we are here to debate. My interpretation was that Article 6 falls directly into Article 34 and not into Article 32 of the Constitution. I think it is legitimate for everyone to feel that they are interpreting differently, because we are here to debate, but my interpretation was in this sense and we had already discussed it. [[Comments of Senator Marcucci]] Senator Marcucci, I don't change my mind. You can reply and I listen very willingly, but I do not change my mind.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u69	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I asked you, if possible, for the immediate convening of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Then, as you rightly explain to me, you may also decide not to convene you, but kindly inform me and the House. Mr President, I believe that the bow to which I referred in my speech yesterday is also confirmed by the decisions that the Presidency is taking this morning. In fact, the decision to prevent individual Members from having the opportunity, on such a sensitive issue as children's health, to reason and vote according to their own conscience, in the secret of voting, is a very serious damage to democracy, which is linked to those I denounced yesterday and is linked to those that you endorsed on the multiple vote in the 5th Commission. So I tell you that we are very concerned, not only about the attitude of the government and not only about the attitude of the majority, but also, at this point, about the attitude of the Senate Presidency! [[Applause from the PD Group]] FARAONE (PD). Bravo!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u70	Senator Marcucci, I respect your opinion, but I would point out that you have raised two issues. The first is the attitude of the Commissions 1a and 5a, to which I have already replied and I have also said that it will be my concern to convene the Presidents of all the Commissions precisely to discuss various subjects. As far as children's right to health is concerned, do you think that someone in here is against protecting this right? I can't accept it! I can't accept it! [[Protests from the PD Group. Live applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] BONFRISCO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Bravo! MALPEZZI (PD). Yeah, them! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I beg you to let me finish my reasoning. Mr Marcucci (PD). Bravo! Bravo! [[Comments from the PD Group]] I had respect and listened very carefully. Even though I didn't share her thoughts, I listened to her. Have the kindness to listen to what I'm saying. [[Senator Pharaoh's comments.]] From my point of view, beyond what may be the interpretation of the articles in question, on which the debate can be opened - and I said that I respect your opinion - I cannot accept the fact that it is called into question that a decision endangers the health of children: the Presidency does not accept it! [[Comments from the PD Group. Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Mr Laus (PD). Yes! BELLANOVA (PD). Yes! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then I say something else: I have not understood and I do not understand - perhaps it will be my problem - why the secret vote protects the health of children and why those who want to protect the health of children cannot publicly express a free opinion, before all [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments of Senators Pharaoh, Marcucci and Valente]] We should all be here saying that publicly, not secretly. Okay? [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). But we're not! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If he cares about everyone as he cares about me - and I think it is even obvious - let us make it clear to everyone that we want to protect him. We don't need the secret vote. [[Comments from the PD Group. Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). You're scared! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We don't need to hide our consciences. [[Comments from the PD Group. Applause from the M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI groups.]] Our conscience is public, it must not be hidden. Okay? [[Comments from the PD Group.]] D'ARIENZO (PD). Get out! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I do not accept that I am told that children's health is not protected here. I don't accept that. [[Comments from the PD Group. Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] D'ARIENZO (PD). Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain. [[Comments from the PD Group. Senator Ferrari is asking for the floor.]] We've talked before. Mr Marcucci (PD). The order of business is given the floor. Mr Laus (PD). The secret vote protects the conscience. Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Sit down, Senator Laus. This is a colleague of yours. Mr Laus (PD). I decide when to sit.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u73	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, I would like to say something quickly to Mr Marcucci. If you are afraid of the authoritarian drift, take a tour of the Regional Council of Tuscany to see what your colleague Rossi does. [[Comments from the PD Group. Applause from the FdI, M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] You worry about the health of children, but you've brought in 700,000 people without even a health check. What are you saying? We are not afraid to see what our conscience is. Remember this, Senator Marcucci. [[Applause from the FdI, M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP groups.]] On the substance of the matter, we regret that our amendments on teachers have been declared inadmissible. On this, however, I must say that we would have liked to see more courage from our colleagues in the majority, because we have dealt with the problem of teachers also in the decree of dignity and with the thousand-pronged. As a result, we certainly want to find a solution. I understand that a government that has recently installed itself and must look at everything that has been left by those who have preceded it needs time. However, more courage, ladies and gentlemen of the League, there had to be here, because the problem of teachers must be addressed and resolved, and this cannot be done only through the judges' sentences. We have a duty to make laws here, and that is why I ask you for even more courage on this issue. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u76	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I would like to make a point of order and to make a request for clarification. Your speech, which we respect, but which, however, we consider improper for the role you play in this House and also for the tone you have taken, needs clarification from us and clarification from you. Otherwise, we risk leaving a precedent with great consequences not only on our work but also on our rights as Members of Parliament. The clarification is as follows: At a time when we were asking for the secret vote so that all senators could exercise their vote on the matter freely, you thought that the attack on those who, in our view, endanger the health of children on this point was directed at you who did not grant the secret vote. That's not the point. We believe that there are political positions in this House that endanger children's health. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] , but they are not those exercised by you in granting the secret vote or not. You, on this point, misunderstand, took five minutes of your time to explain. Therefore, the attack is not on you, whether you choose to grant the secret vote or not. The secret vote is another thing. Ours is the awareness that in this House there are those who assume a great responsibility that can have very significant consequences on the health of children, and I did not speak of the Presidency. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]] As for the request, you made a passage that needs to be clarified. No one discusses the way in which each of us exercises our freedom. But if the institute of secret voting has been thought of, it is precisely because, when there are issues of conscience at stake, the maximum exercise of freedom is also to demand that that vote be expressed without it being obvious. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]] This is the greatest freedom. You have said here - because of your role - that you cannot and must make it clear - that in reality this House, if it has a high head and wants to publicly assume responsibility for the things it says and does, can easily vote clearly. I think that this can create a very serious precedent for the work and, above all, it can only harm the rights of Members by deleting an institution of extraordinary democratic value in our Parliament. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]] VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. Bravo! Mr Ferrari (PD). You owe us clarification, but you owe it to everyone. Today we are asking for a secret vote on a matter of conscience. But, as some Members of Parliament, whom we shall be contesting, of the other parties in the majority, are taking initiatives on much more serious issues of conscience, when they ask for it, will you still have the strength to respond with the same ambiguity? [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]] VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. Bravo! Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, please clarify this. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Ronzulli]] and it must do so because we, starting precisely from the clarification that I have made, have made it clear to her that the attack on the will to do harm or not to children was not aimed at her: that was the misunderstanding. In view of this, too, we would ask you to say a certain word about the maintenance of the precious institution of secret voting as the exercise of the freedom of every Member of Parliament. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u77	It seems to me that I started this debate in a very quiet tone, saying that my interpretation was about Article 34 and not Article 32 of the Constitution. In view of a different interpretation, which I said to respect - the interpretations in law may be the most varied - but which I did not share and did not agree with, a heavy accusation was made to me by President Marcucci, who challenged the Presidency because the attitude of the Presidency itself would - as it were - seriously harm children's health. And that is precisely what I cannot accept. I repeat, I repeat, and I do not think that I have come out of the balance of my management powers in this House. On the other question that has interwoven itself with this question about the interpretation and requests made by the Groups on the management of the 1st and 5th Commission, I replied in accordance with the provisions of the current Rules of Procedure, as amended, and I did not refer to articles in previous wordings. I have also said that, since I had previously called for more colloquial and dialogue management - let us say as we wish - I would have brought together all the Presidents of the Commission. Therefore, the fact that I am given attitudes that cannot - as it were - be third in relation to this House is not acceptable because I do not attribute it to myself, thinking that I have a good sense of self-criticism. In light of this, I think I am closing this episode.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u80	CALIENDO (FI-BP). Mr President, you told me: I had asked for the floor earlier because I believe that the point needs to be clarified. President Marcucci, positions concerning regulatory interpretations must never involve political judgements on the provisions. On the norm on vaccines is shared by us your negative judgment, because it endangers the health of all children [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] This is a clear position. However, this accusation has been made against the Presidency, as if the President shares a favourable opinion, which we reject absolutely, for a rule that is wrong. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I believe that each of you, having voted with us in the last parliamentary term for certain corrections on vaccines, cannot say today that we will have protection for children by moving the time of self-certification for a moment. Do you realize that? I therefore believe that we must never lose patience on these issues and favour a misunderstanding on the part of the President or the Groups. I believe that each one of us, very calmly, must have the courage to reflect, to reason. I also say to the Government that first on the issue of the suburbs, I would have expected a rewording of the relevant agendas. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups),]] It was simply stated that, having taken note of the statement made by the President-in-Office of the Council - who is part of this majority - the House would like to see the words followed as soon as possible. That was enough for us to vote unanimously. I hope that you will now take an initiative to correct the agenda on the issue of vaccines, which will probably be able to achieve unanimity. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Malpezzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u81	We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u82	Mr President, I rise to go beyond the controversy that has just arisen in this House. It is right that the amendments made to Article 6 to the House of Deputies should be taken into account in relation to the issue of compulsory vaccination in schools. Forza Italia has tabled an amendment deleting paragraph 3-c to the text reworded by the Chamber of Deputies that allows the possibility to present the replacement declaration to demonstrate the carrying out of compulsory vaccinations until March 10, 2019. The self-certification on vaccines - and I should like to remind you once again here in this House - marks a decisive step back from the enhancement of the obligation to immunize. It should be pointed out that the Government has introduced the extension without taking into account all the opinions of audit experts in the Commission, both in the Senate and in the Chamber of Deputies, and without considering the undoubted organizational problems that school leaders will have, on the one hand, and the impact on children and families, on the other. Unfortunately, this issue was also raised in this House on 6 August and saw a strong polemic following the statements made by Vice-President Taverna on a subject that is at our heart, not because we are having a political battle with it. For us it is a battle of civilization of Italian society that must demonstrate that it is above all close to the scientific and medical world, to common sense, even before the world of medical science. It is not a matter of positions of Forza Italia or the Democratic Party. The Italian people must begin to emerge out of the logic that we must chase people who meet together, who are almost always minorities in the country, and who assume names such as "No Vax". We must stop in this country chasing those extreme minorities that, however, make noise, raise dusts and find the party or the political movement on duty to ride them, in the ridiculous, impossible, search for a wrong consensus. We are doing a battle of civilization here, which must be close to the interests of the weakest, who are, in fact, the smallest, the least. I want to remember what I said about a month and a half ago, when I remembered - and it must not be underestimated, because scientific data have a value and it is right that they are underlined and remarked in this Assembly - that in 2017 there had been 15,000 cases of total measles throughout Europe; of these 15,000 cases, 10,000 only in Italy and Romania. Only in 2018 there were two deaths in Italy, in Sicily, and they were avoidable, if we had been close, as has been repeatedly recalled, even recently, by colleagues Ronzulli and Laura Stabile, who looks at my shoulders in the Senate and is aware of what we are discussing, since he is a doctor. We must be aware of the fundamental importance that the absolute uncertainty that emerges from a decision taken in the Chamber of Deputies by the majority of the Government is not good for the Italian people, it is not good for the country and above all it does not protect the health of children. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u83	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. Amendments 6.1 and 6.2 are inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 6.4, which is identical to Amendments Nos 6.5, 6.6 and 6.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u86	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, allow me first of all to express my personal uneasiness about what happened earlier on a sensitive issue. On such a delicate matter, Mr President, we do not get to these points. I really do express a very serious discomfort. Having said that, we will think about it, each of us will think about it, I hope. I add two points. Everyone can have their own positions, but there is no doubt that the chaos that has arisen on the issue of vaccines is a serious and unacceptable fact: unacceptable, Mr President, for the health of children, for school workers and for families. The responsibility of the Government and the majority is grave. If you had another idea, you should not have intervened with this provision, but you should have called into question the Lorenzin Decree-Law - as you said - and changed the rules into transparency, without creating such chaos. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]] In doing so, you create uncertainties. I want to add another thing: I understand the position of those who debate, in principle, between compulsory and voluntary. I can understand it, because there are countries that have coverage over 95% and do not have the obligation. But if you leave the door open to questioning the scientific elements, you will never get this result. Decide to abandon the pursuit of consent - I do not know what results it will give you - to put the health of children and the quality of this country first. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u89	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, there is a great deal of concern outside this House. We can discuss what we want, but there is concern. Let us remember the words of President Conte, when this Government took office, when he declared that he wanted to be the lawyer of the Italians and citizens and, therefore, defend the demands that the citizens would have addressed to him. We remain grounded, because in the Chamber, during the hearings, some medical citizens said that the type of approach wanted by the government was serious and asked the government for a step back. Principal citizens, school leaders have strongly asked the government not to intervene on that matter that was fine as it was, because otherwise the chaos in the schools would have been incalculable. Even the citizen Professor Vittorio Demicheli, who is the President of the National Commission for Vaccines, appointed by Minister Grillo, said this. Everyone has told this Government to remain firm and not intervene on this matter, because the concern is high and the health of children is put at risk. There is a real danger. Mr Errani said well before: you are a bit the Government of propaganda, which does not have the objective of good administration, but of increasing its consent. So how do you increase it? It is increased with the subterfuge, because the position of the government certainly did not understand it. The Government makes an extension, then a derogation, it hides behind quirks, but it does not take a clear, clear and strong decision. Doesn't it say it's pro, doesn't it say it's against, and then what do we find out? We come to discover, with respect to the vaccination obligation, that the members of this Government vaccinate their children: Minister Grillo vaccinates them, Alessandro Di Battista vaccinates them, President Conte vaccinates them, the Undersecretary Buffagni vaccinates them, even the senator who invited the parents to send their children to the cousins to get measles. They vaccinate them, but then they make propaganda on the skin of the children of others, on the skin of the children of others, on the skin of those children who are immunodepressed and cannot be vaccinated and who are not allowed free choice. In this case the choices are detrimental to the health of the weakest. Then they are choices that cannot be allowed. Do you know who can't vaccinate? You cannot vaccinate those children who are in very difficult health situations: children who have very serious neuropathologies; children who are fed with the probe; children who breathe through tracheotomy and children who have leukemic diseases. What do you do to these children? Tell them they have to stay out of school. In addition to that right to health that they are at risk, put at risk their right to education, because you keep them out of school because no one can go if the others are not vaccinated, otherwise the risk of their illness, President, becomes very high. That's why there's concern. That is why we would like this vote to be expressed with great freedom and not behind the policy of consensus that the Government is trying to carry out at all costs. You see, Mr President, I say this with great regret: in the Commission we tried to debate, but we found our eyes lowered. None of the members of the Government, none of the members of the other Commissions spoke on the subject: low eyes. They understand: they can only be ashamed. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u92	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, in view of the sensitive issue, I hope that the whole of this House will really reflect on these issues, but leave aside the fanaticisms, which are on both sides. The extension on the subject of vaccines, compared to the first reading of the Senate, has been modified in the Chamber of Deputies the following day and only after the majority of the Government has submitted a bill, of which my colleague Patuanelli and I are first signatories, shared by the Government, precisely on the subject of vaccines. The change in the extension to the House of Deputies is intended to accompany the process of the draft law, which will obviously be discussed in the Commission very soon. We have never called into question, in all the debates - and we have talked so much about this - nor the importance of vaccines, scientifically proven and recognized and often and gladly reiterated by us, nor the issue of obligation, because then the vaccination obligation, basically, in our country has been there for years. What we have instead called into question is a very sensitive issue, which concerns the relationship between the family and the State, namely the exclusion from schools and kindergartens of those children who, by family choice, escape from certain vaccines. So we think - and we say it clearly once and for all, since on this subject it is said that there is chaos, that we have not explained well, and we do not understand it clearly, what our position is - that on the one hand the power of exclusion of the State, which is a mistake, is wrong; just as on the other hand we think it is wrong to deny the collective protection of diseases. In the same way - forgive me - it is also wrong, even with all the various complaints that can be done, to treat the so-called No Vax as if they were obscurantists. [[Comments from the PD Group]] People are talking, discussing and confronting each other and the objective of politics is to convince them of the good reasons for vaccinations. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from the PD Group]] They'll have them, too, obviously... BELLANOVA (PD). The immunodepressed, who guarantees them? You have to look at the last ones! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). I asked with courtesy and please for a moment of reflection from everyone. I said listen to them. I didn't say they were right or not. For this reason - in our opinion - as a majority we need serious reflection, involving doctors, scientists and experts, without fanaticism on either side, trying to use common sense... [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from the PD Group]] BELLANOVA (PD). Get out of the chair! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). ...that is what we want to carry on with the bill no. 770. Forgive me, but I'm also a parent and I've had my son vaccinated beyond the obligations of the Lorenzin law, if we really want to go through with it. The principles of this bill of ours are clear, because the vaccination obligation is maintained in our legislative initiative, only that outside the school you go only in extreme cases. There was that old saying of common sense that said: only in extreme cases, extreme remedies. Before introducing coercive measures, it is necessary to convince, through a campaign of information, promotion and listening. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] , with education and prevention, which in recent years, in our country, have failed, also due to the cuts that the National Health Service has undergone over time. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] MALPEZZI (PD). You're out! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). A prevention and information that removes those obstacles that prevent parents from vaccinating their children: this is the theme of our bill. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). It is also a matter of resorting to coercive measures only in case of emergencies or compromise of group immunity: we remember that from '73, from the case of cholera in Naples, to 2017, year of approval of the law Lorenzin, in the end there were no particular cases of epidemic in our country. This is a proposal dictated by common sense, on which we all call for reflection, both in this House and in the Commission, on the side of fanaticism on the one hand and on the other. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u95	RONZULLI (FI-BP). Mr. President, I'll be supertelegraphic. My speech is intended to be a telegram, because unfortunately so many words have already been said in this House on this issue. I do not want to open a debate here on vaccines, if vaccines do not and I do not want to underline the continuous twists and turns of this Government that, over forty days, has changed its mind so many times that you can no longer count on the fingers of the two hands. However, I would like to say that, if I understand Senator Marcucci's request, I would like to see a positive aspect of President Alberti Casellati's decision, which today gives the opportunity, not only to us, but above all to families, parents and Italians, to see the faces and know the names of the people who will leave their mark on this amendment. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] With these prints the Italians will know exactly who they will have to defend and protect the health of their children. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u98	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the respect I owe to you, to this House and to my country is the same that I expect from now on when we talk and discuss important issues such as vaccines. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Just give me one premise, President. Who speaks to her is a doctor who has always chosen the path of scientific research because he believes that only knowledge and study can lead to real progress. However, in order for this to happen, science must be stimulated, encouraged and financed: never and never should one allow it to become an electoral instrument or to become interested in other purposes besides that of improving life and safeguarding the health of all. He who speaks to you is a citizen who will never question what is not called into question by science. It is from here that we must start to arrive at an organic law that also regulates the use of vaccines in our country. We must start from the knowledge that a state must guarantee to its citizens and from the common sense that every citizen of this country must allow to mature and strengthen to prevail over the prejudices and lies that are often built in art. There is no flag on the themes of medicine and science: it cannot and must not exist. We want to focus on a serious, honest, and pattern-free confrontation. This government did not want to act by decree on the issue of vaccines. This majority has chosen the main avenue of confrontation in this House and, before that, in the Commission: the path of democratic debate which has often been lacking in the past and which is now being restored. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Our proposal - as my colleague Mr Romeo said - is already before the Senate and will soon be discussed in the Health and Health Commission and will become law when everyone has transposed and discussed every single step, every facet. Vaccines are and remain an irreplaceable tool for the protection of public health and no space must be given to those who spread pseudo-information or even those who omit correct and complete information. The amendment proposed in August was overcome by our bill, which was presented here in the Senate. The new amendment, pending the organic reform contained in the draft law, does not intervene on the subject, but simplifies the bureaucratic burden on parents. Self-certification has for years been a right for citizens in the relationship with the public administration and cannot in any way be downloaded to their parents, in the absence of the vaccine registry. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] If this promise had been kept, we would already have the data available today and we should not force families to activate themselves to produce cards and certificates. However, since this has not been done, families must be met. Moreover, all the allegations about the possibility of false self-certifications are unfounded, because NAS controls have shown that only in one case in a thousand those certificates were false, so there are no organized movements that predispose false self-certifications, as someone has tried to make believe, former Minister Lorenzin in the lead. Our bill provides for a modulation of the compulsory nature of individual vaccines based on the coverage and epidemiological data that will finally be provided through a national vaccine registry. The previous decree-law created resistance and accentuated alarmism, confusion and fears. Our goal instead is knowledge and sharing and we aim at optimal coverage, achieved and maintained thanks above all to information and awareness. We aim to create a trust between doctor and parent, between state and citizen, that overcomes any obstacle or barrier constituted by prejudices or lack of knowledge: never again unjustified alarmisms, but finally conscious choices. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u100	About what, Senator Marcucci? Senator Malpezzi has already spoken for her Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u101	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business, to make a request which seems legitimate to me, given that the subject seems to me to be relevant, as evidenced by the quality of the debate. That there is neither the Minister nor a State Secretary for Health is something which, as a Member of Parliament, I am very concerned about and on which I would ask you, Mr President, to speak. In fact, considering everything that we are all supporting today, albeit with different compositions, perhaps it would have been a signal of attention to Parliament and especially to children. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u102	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.4, tabled by Senators Ciriani and others, identical to amendments 6.5, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, 6.6, tabled by Senator Marcucci and other Senators, 6.7, tabled by Senator Bernini and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 6.12.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u105	BINI (PD). Mr President, Senator Simone Bossi explained to us just now that turnarounds are taking place at the circus, and we agree very much. I do not know how the Member can define the positions on vaccines carried out by this majority in the last three months: perhaps turnarounds, stunts or something else. The position - if we want to call it so - of this Government and this majority, in fact, has changed several times over the course of two months - in some cases even within forty-eight hours - without letting anyone understand what the final one is. But this is not a matter of joking, unfortunately we are not a circus; here we are endangering the health of the most fragile, the health of children, those immune-depressed children, who used to mention my colleague Malpezzi, who for health reasons cannot be vaccinated and who will see their health and also their right to education put at risk, because you decided to postpone, waiting for this law that you announced and then we will see better in the contents, a vaccination obligation that was not there, Senator Romeo, that we introduced and that there was until 1996. So, since a colleague in the Commission gave us a semantic lesson yesterday, learn the meaning of two words: truth and competence. When you talk, you tell the truth and when you talk, you study and you know what you talk about. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is useful, in a Parliamentary House we need to know what we are talking about. It is very useful indeed as advice. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you. BINI (PD). Please, it's a pleasure. In the law that you have presented, you say that you will deal with this in emergency cases. Did they explain to you that a state doesn't have to deal with things when there's an emergency? You don't have to get to the emergency. When there is an emergency someone is already dead, some children have already lost their lives. [[Applause from the PD Group]] There's no emergency, Senator Romeo. Things are dealt with first, children's health is protected first. [[Comments of Senator Romeo]] Senator, let me finish, please. Senator Castellone explained to us that the right to debate in this House has finally been restored; it is a pleasure to know, we have not noticed. Yesterday, yesterday, in ten hours of debate in the Commission, we spoke alone, none of the Government and the majority spoke. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , not even for dignity and conscience, to tell us how he thinks about this issue, to explain to mothers, doctors and citizens how they think, because they didn't have the courage, they stood there with their heads down and didn't say half a word. This is the debate. This is your concept of debate. This is your concept of parliamentary democracy. Please. And then fanaticism; we eliminate fanaticism from all sides. Fanaticism is only on one side. You're the fanatics. The fanatics voted for you. I say this clearly: the No Vax are fanatics and you gave him this support only by three votes. You exchanged the health of the little ones for three votes. Shame. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u108	GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Mr President, I believe that the government is taking a huge responsibility this morning, a serious responsibility that will weigh on all Italians and all Italians. The extension is in fact a decision of responsibility, but above all it puts at the center the fact that a minority of thought in the country becomes a majority in the decisions. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] A minority of thought, however, not supported by the scientific community, who told us in every way and in every way not to make a decision that would lead to non-vaccination. I think we should all now put ourselves in the shoes of those parents who have immune-depressed children, who will not be able to send to school if there is a child in the classroom or a child who has not been vaccinated. Well, speaking as a mother, it's a responsibility that I personally would never take, and I wouldn't want anyone to take my place. I believe that this Government has given us a vision on many occasions: that those who do not do do do not make mistakes; that those who do not decide cannot make mistakes on so many issues. In some respects, the extension is also a non-decision, because if you have divisions within you, in your majority, you should have the courage to assume the responsibility to say that you are against vaccines and that is why you do not forcefully carry out the obligatory. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]] Brothers of Italy has already expressed his thoughts several times, even in the competent Commissions. I would ask everyone, for once, to think about how often the Movimento 5 Stars said that citizens must be at the heart of political action. Then you should explain to me why this time a minority of citizens become a majority in government decisions. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups and Senator Errani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u111	SILERI (M5S). Mr President, I speak as a doctor, as I was in my first life, and, in my second life, as a senator. Indeed, too many words have been said in this House and outside this House. It's hard to accept being called fanatics. I, frankly, can't feel fanatic. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] I don't want to be a college professor here. I just want to say this: repetita iuvant. Therefore, I have four clear, clear concepts with very few words: we do not want to endanger the lives of our children and the children of others. MALPEZZI (PD). But you're doing it! SILERI (M5S). We do not question the usefulness of vaccines. Vaccines serve, vaccines protect, vaccines save lives. I don't feel like I've changed my mind in these months or in the last 48 hours, as I've heard. Perhaps it is because of my political inexperience, but it seems to me that we are voting for an existing extension. We are only voting for an existing extension. Extension, as Senator Romeo said, allows children to be enrolled in schools. In the meantime, and this is where the final point comes in, I would like good information to start from this House. So, I invite everyone to read the bill presented in early August. If that bill says we're against vaccines and we don't want vaccines, then you're right. Read the bill and then we'll discuss it. In that measure you will find a modular instrument, a new instrument, which will allow in time to adopt just vaccination practices. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u114	SICLARI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent months we have seen a continuous dance: vaccines yes, vaccines no. But it was a ballet that in the end only you of the majority danced. At first, in fact, you said that it is not right to vaccinate children; that it is not right to force children to vaccination. [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]] Yeah, that's what you said. There are reports that say it all the time. You don't want mandatory. You never wanted mandatory. Now say that it is right to go to school with compulsory vaccination from next year; indeed, today you say also from March. So there is a contradiction not in terms but above all in content. What emerges today among people is only one fact: it is not clear whether to vaccinate is right or not. A short time ago Mr Sileri (who I esteem) said that since March it will be necessary to demonstrate compulsory education in schools. Why, since March what changes? Wasn't it possible to do that now? What changes since March compared to today? In fact, there has been a regurgitation of your proposal, which still does not lead you to admit the mistake you have made and which you are continuing to make. So, what did it turn out to be? Families have been told first vaccines yes and then vaccines no, while improvisation reigns in this House, because politics cannot replace science and the results obtained by scientists; politics cannot be opposed to science. The opinions of all scientists and experts have not been heard and, at the time when you thought of taking them into account, your great contradiction emerged: before it needed no obligation, now it could be useful and may be useful perhaps in November or perhaps March. I mean, it's not a good message that comes out of this House. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u116	On what, Senator Boldrini? BOLDRINI (PD). Always on the amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bini has already spoken for her Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u119	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would just like to make a quick observation. As you know, I came here from a scientific research career in another field. I find it a little disturbing the dichotomy between science and politics before, with the policy that, as I understand it from the words of some of my previous colleagues, would not therefore have the right or even the duty, in my opinion, to ask questions about some absolutes. Now, you see, I remember some debates in my field and also a debate in this field. In my field (now Mr Monti is missing), I belong to a scientific community which has defended austerity policies and which today has changed its mind. Perhaps children's lives were also involved there, at least judging by what the scientific journals of another field, the medical and epidemiological, report today. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] I do not want to make a polemical speech now, but I just want to make a curiosity that I have left in this House. We are on the anniversary of a world war and so I am reminded of the Piave line. The Piave line had been attested to 12 vaccines, then suddenly it went back to 10. I suppose the 12 vaccines were the answer of science and that even the 10 vaccines are the answer of science. So this science has at least two answers. See what the point is? Here no one disputes the fact that prevention is better than cure. Perhaps someone might dispute the fact that the cost of prevention has increased as a result of other choices. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But if one sets the debate in Taliban terms and then goes back from 12 to 10, this clearly creates an extremely divisive atmosphere and well-founded suspicions, throughout the national community, whenever science is evoked, which at this point seems to become not the exercise of doubt and research, but simply the continuation of politics by other means. And I think we should avoid that. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u120	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 6.12, tabled by Senator Bini and other senators, up to the words of the Higher Institute of Health. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 6.13 to 6.15 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 6.10.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u123	Mr Rizzotti (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to agree with Senator Romeo when he says: it has not been checked. In fact, I criticized Minister Lorenzin a lot because, when in 2012, Trani's attorney connected vaccination with a case of autism, and five years later, in December 2017, he said that it was absolutely not proven (as all the scientific literature said), the damage was done and the oxen had escaped from the stables. And the Ministry in five years has never controlled the vaccination obligation; it has never monitored the fact that the degree of infectious diseases absolutely rose, endangering so many children. Then there was a decree of emergency, which I challenged and almost made me pass for No Vax. This is why compulsory vaccines dropped from twelve to ten: for the battle of Forza Italia. This is why the reproach of taking away the power of parents who did not vaccinate their children was eliminated: for the battle of Forza Italia [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] That's why the fine is now reduced from 100 to 500 euros, and it's not from 7,500 euros: for the battle of Forza Italia. They were all amendments to my first signature and signed by my Group. That's why unaccompanied minors in the centers have the vaccination obligation like all our children: for the battle of Forza Italia [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The same for migrants in reception centres: for our battle. On the other hand, I did not succeed when I found it deeply unfair to ask for compulsory vaccination to children without the certificate of vaccination for school workers and health professionals. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I was told that there was no money and that the Regions would provide it. I believe that we are experiencing a paradoxical situation - and I will remain silent soon - because we are really the only country in the world that talks about the usefulness of vaccination. In Sweden there is no obligation, but 100% there is coverage for measles, because citizens have confidence in their state and in the things it says. I was told: I had death threats on the Net because of my medical position on vaccines and I was accused of favoring the pharmaceutical industries. I think even an idiot can understand that a pharmaceutical industry agrees that people get sick compared to the turnover of vaccines. But be patient. I would also like to say that, of course, Germany does not have a vaccination obligation, but to enroll in school is required the certificate (both to enroll in school and to work). If the health of children is at the heart of everyone, and it seems to me that the House has said so, why are we waiting for this government bill presented in early August? Unfortunately, I have not had the pleasure of reading it yet, because in August, when I read in the newspapers that it had been presented, I asked the Senate offices to read it, but I was told that there was still no authorization from the signatories. Sure, something's come up. I would like the Minister of Health to explain to me what flexible obligation means, because, honestly, I did not understand it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Errani]] If the subject is so important, I do not understand why there should be an extension. If your health is at heart now, let's do it now and don't wait six months to show that we care about the health of children. In fact, in these six months, I think everyone has read the rather moving letter of a doctor to a senator. And I think they read the parents' demands of immunodepressed children: Viola, three years old, liver transplanted at eight months old, she won't be able to go to school. But like you, so many others. Then there are all the people who nowadays thanks to science (the famous science that is questioned by so many morons), instead of dying, can be cured, like all liver transplanters, pancreas transplanters, organ transplanters, heart transplanters who go to the street and are protected only by immunity of flock and who already have enough things to worry about, without having to think of dying because someone brings them the virus home or on the street. This is the time to show that the health of children is at everyone's heart, that you do not make extensions. It is true that few false self-certifications have been discovered; I believe that the controls have been carried out on about 1,000 institutions and there have been 55 false self-certifications, especially in Campania, I do not know, perhaps because they are less informed. In any case, if health is at everyone's heart, we are voting in favour of this amendment, which is tabled as soon as possible and we are debating it, because six months do not change anything to you, but children who cannot go to school or who contract an infectious disease and die change a great deal. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u124	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 6.10, tabled by Senator Pharaoh and other senators, up to the word "Solo". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 6.11 to 6.25 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 6.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u127	MANGIALAVORI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group to which I belong has already made a firm statement and, in order to clarify the position of Forza Italia, I repeat that we are absolutely in favour of vaccines. It is a firm and rigid position, as well as even firmer and more rigid is our position on the fact that there must be immediately the compulsory vaccinations for enrolment in schools. In fact, if it is true that vaccines are valid, if it is true that they are needed, as has been said in this House, they are needed immediately and not since 10 March 2019. I also wonder what will happen when, on 10 March 2019, a young person does not have to submit the certificate of vaccination in the schools belonging to him: will he have to leave school? There are a number of contradictions in these amendments that the majority are proposing. In addition, to those who are in favour of information rather than the obligation of vaccination, I say that we are in 2018, all of us are informed and know the benefits of vaccines. Do we still have to inform people? I believe that we are all aware that we all have knowledge of the validity of vaccines, so for Forza Italia vaccines must be compulsory immediately and with a decree-law. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u128	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u129	You have the right to do so. I would like to point out that the time is long overdue, so I invite you, if possible, to limit your considerations.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u130	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, I will speak very briefly, but I would like to remind you that I feel like living a déjà-vu. We have spent the previous parliamentary term in the Health Commission in the House first in a resolution and then taking note of the need for this law. I remember that Law No 119 of 2017, now in force, has been passed because we have identified needs: I remember that they had died of cough of very young children at the time; the emergency was already there and that is why we took the opportunity to develop a law that I have now heard has to be reworded. I would also ask the representatives of the majority to review the law that we had adopted, because on every point it had already been placed by the members of the current majority (which was then in opposition) a critical issue and so we have appropriately expanded that legislation because we have heard it. Yes, then we had listened to the oppositions and shared together the points that had to correct the planting of the law. I also remember that in that law there was the approval of a decree for the national vaccination registry, which you have already mentioned before. I remember that the registry has already been completed because there is already a decree, passed by the State-Regions Conference. So, he's in a great state of progress. I do not understand, therefore, why we must at this point go and review things that already have their function and that work. The scientific data tell us now. We've got an important vaccine cover now. If we do this at regional level, as I have heard, viruses do not listen to the regions; they go everywhere. I'm not the one who says it, I'm the scientists. I therefore ask you to reconsider. I am asking - we have already heard that vaccines are important - to carry out a major study on West Nile vaccines that is reaping millions of victims and we need them. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] There are already eight deceased people in my region. We invest the resources we have for more important and necessary things. We've already talked about vaccines. In my opinion, there is no need to intervene for what has already been done. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u133	BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that not only for political reasons, but for true and valuable reasons, the current debate has been fascinating this House for a long time, as it should be. I just wanted to suggest a reflection on the difficult exercise of freedom because freedom with responsibility is a sacred value. I think we're all defending him. But the exercise responsible for freedom and, therefore, for rights and duties has a precise limit, the freedom of others. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is what we are preventing by extension. Welcome to a new bill, so let's be clear, but in the meantime in these six months who has to stay at home? The immune-depressed child or the non-vaccined child? [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] I have the impression that they are both taking risks for which they are not responsible. Which of the two must step back to allow the other to exercise his freedom? Am I the one who keeps my immunodepressed grandchildren at home or is it the others who keep their unimmunized children at home? I believe that this is not possible and, in fact, what is under discussion, in my view, beyond the matter, is the exercise of freedom. Everyone is not only responsible for his freedom; he is also responsible for the other's ability to exercise his freedom. Think about it because, beyond the issue of vaccines, this is a fundamental debate of every liberal and democratic society. [[Applause from the Mixed-PEcEB, PD and FI-BP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u134	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u136	ENDRIZZI (M5S). President, I believe that something else is being decided. Connected Bonino, allow me. It is decided who is responsible for documenting the success of the certification: to the citizen who is already obliged and overburdened of charges or to the publication of administration that that data should already have them and not claim them? This is a general principle of public administration. If we then hear that the vaccine registry, yes, is already completed, or not, is in progress, I believe that for these six months we must simply allow families to reduce their burdens. There is no doubt about the obligation, there is no doubt about the right to study for anyone; it is simply said that, in the depths of the obligations that public administration must carry out, citizens are allowed to self-certification, as is already the case on many other occasions. This is the decision to make, very elementary. If you want to load it with other values, then it means that an instrumental, fictitious, fake-based debate is taking place here. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u137	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 6.8, tabled by Senator Pharaoh and other senators, up to the words 'In case' are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 6.9 to 6.132 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 6,133, tabled by Senator Pharaoh and other senators, until the words "year of cohorts." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 6,134 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 6.35 tabled by Senator Parrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 6.136, tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators, up to the words Trento and Bolzano. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 6,137 to 6,139 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.40, tabled by Senator Iori and other senators, identical to amendment 6.141, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.142, tabled by Senator Pharaoh and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.143, tabled by Senator Bini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 6.144, tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators, up to the words of vaccinations. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 6,145 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 6,146, tabled by Senator Pharaoh and other senators, until the word "confirmed" is added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 6,147 to 6,150 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 6,151, tabled by Senator Bini and other senators, up to the words'made at the time of the vote'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 6.152 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,153 tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 6,155, tabled by Senator Bini and other senators, until the words 'in the following words': (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 6,156 to 6,154 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,159 tabled by Senator Pharaoh and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 6.60 tabled by Senator Iori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.161, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,163, tabled by Senator Rampi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.3 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u138	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u140	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, Amendment 6.3 (text 2) as well as the following is an attempt to remedy the vacuum created after this majority in the House deleted the amendment on the reopening of the AGEs that had been approved by the Senate. "Since our entry into the institutions, the problem that concerns the magisterial graduates before 2002 has been at the center of our activity and our commitment, with amendments and positions, all aimed at the recognition of the enabling value of the title of magisterial diploma and the consequent insertion in the rankings when all those entitled to it are exhausted, because we believe that we are faced with a clear violation of the law and of the rights of workers, as well as a serious difference of treatment between subjects, who, although having the same title, have been inserted in the AGE and subjects who instead will remain outside of it". Mr President, those just said are not my words, because I have basically taken the floor that Luigi Di Maio, then Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, and Silvia Chimienti, former Member of the M5S, had specifically addressed to the magisterial graduates. Mr President, when the Senate approved the amendment on this subject at first reading last July, I had naively (and naively) thought that the commitments also written (and not only) entered into in the election campaign and during all the initiatives aimed at those 40,000 to 50,000 teachers who have consistently ensured the continuity of teaching over the years were fulfilled. And what happened instead? Once again, because of disagreements within the majority or because you may have chosen a Minister of Education who is not of the same opinion as what was promised in the election campaign, the opposite is true: an attempt has been made to give a condolence, which consists simply in extending the execution of the now well-known 2017 Council of State ruling to one hundred and twenty days, which has totally infringed the previous jurisprudence with regard to the magisterial graduates, and yesterday Minister Bussetti declared that such an extraordinary competition will be held. You know perfectly well that the outlines of this competition are unclear and that, moreover, it will cover a maximum of 12,000 teachers. Maio was right in that letter, because in fact we are talking about a real discrimination, which you continue to perpetuate. You have done something very serious, even in this case without taking responsibility for what you said before and what you want to do next. This is very serious, because you have boasted - and I am also addressing my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement - that you are fulfilling your commitments with the citizens and here you are showing that, for other interests, for other conveniences, for problems within the majority, you completely disregard the formal commitments, which you had also undertaken with a written letter. It is true that when you get to the government and you get to be part of the majority you change your mind. We have therefore understood what the Government of Change is: in this case too it is the Government of the change of ideas. Mr President, you know this better than I do, because you have so much campaign experience. When we go to the electoral campaign, when promises are made to the citizens and commitments are made, these are sacred commitments and when they fail, what is being done is that the distrust of the institutions and of politics has grown out of proportion. Once again, I call on the Government and the majority to reconsider and fulfil their commitments. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u141	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 6.3 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "30 September 2019." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 6,162 (text 2) are therefore excluded. Amendments 6.154 and 6.165 are inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6,166.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u142	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u144	FADELI (PD). In the meantime, I would like the House to reflect once again on a figure which should continue to see us together. To postpone by a year the choices that Parliament has made on issues that cross the right to health with the right to education and its innovation and quality, is a choice that generates not only uncertainty, but also mistrust in the institutions. If there is a passage that exists in other countries, it is that there are fundamental things, that concern all the political parties, because they concern the whole of society, that even when legitimately you change Government with the elections, you continue, you improve, you can change, but you do not jump through fake extensions, moving them forward of a year. Let me say, on three subjects, some things that have not yet been said in this House. The first is the issue of vaccines, on which my colleagues have spoken. However, you know that when we discussed on the basis of the previous emergency, with regard to the health of girls and children, we did an extraordinary job even later, to involve managers, teachers, parents, scientific communities and also local authorities and regions. I remember the important work done together to implement that provision, because we were all united on the choice contained in the decree Lorenzin, with President Maroni and President Zaia, with whom we also agreed on the implementation circular of that decree-law, in August last year. We even worked to get an advance, which was not provided for by the law, with the Guarantee Authority on the whole part of the vaccine registry, so as not to burden school leaders and the school with skills that are obviously not theirs. But on this you are giving a very wrong signal. And I come to two more exceptions, Mr President, concerning two issues that I particularly care about. In this decree-law it is said to postpone for a year the entry into force of a norm that recalls the evaluation through the test of the Invalsi, that it serves our girls and our boys, not only to have an evaluation to insert then in the own curriculum on Italian, mathematics and English, but exactly to continue the studies or to relate to the world of work. The girls and boys worked the previous year and were ready to work this year. So, after years in which we have experienced, discussing and adapting all this within the training paths, also with the involvement of teachers, students, parents and society as a whole, what signal do we give? That's not worth anymore. You know what's not worth? The fact that we are taking pride away from our girls and our boys, when they meet their peers from 90 countries around the world, representing 80% of the global economy that lives, to have exactly the same assessments, the same tools and opportunities of training quality. But why? [[Applause from the PD Group]] The same is the speech about the school-work alternation, a didactic innovation. Were there any limits? Yes. As always, when it is innovative, it is necessary to accompany the processes of innovation and change. Here too, however, let us ask ourselves what is the signal we give to those who have spent their time to innovate from this point of view, to our girls, our boys, families and society as a whole. We are essentially saying that education, quality of education and innovative training pathways are not being invested in this country. Mr President, I should like to end by recalling the important words spoken by the President of the Republic at the opening of the school year, which should make us think and perhaps take a decision on this together again. There is a responsibility of all politics and the whole Republic to give our girls and our boys the best possible education, in harmony with the changes that have already taken place in other countries. Why, then, should this Government and this Parliament be characterised by uncertainty and reversing these issues? We're doing a lot of damage to our girls and our boys, who are today and the quality of our future.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u145	Please, Senator, conclude, as the times have been well exceeded.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u146	FADELI (PD). You're right and I apologize, President. The work we have done has not looked at the parties: it has been done together with all the realities, with all the political belongings, because it is really a matter of considering the fundamental right to education as a matter of concern to everyone. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u147	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.166, tabled by Senator Verducci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 6,167, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators, until the words "stay still" are put to the vote. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 6.168 are therefore not included. Let us move on to Amendment 6,169, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u148	I would ask for the vote and I would like to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u150	Mr Berardi (FI-BP). Mr President, we want to table our amendment, which deals mainly with the safety of schools. I can bring to this House my experience as city councilman for public works in the municipality of Orbetello, where since the moment of my office I have dealt with the safety of school buildings. Of course, we always find it difficult to find the economic resources, difficulties that are also increased by the procurement code, which, unfortunately, sometimes complicates the bans and the entrusts; and so, the times are considerably longer, all to the detriment of the safety of the institutions. With this amendment, we ask that we be able to give a more secure answer to the problem of all our buildings, in particular to protect our pupils and our children, in order to guarantee them the right to safety, training and study. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u151	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 6,169, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G669 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u152	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u153	Since both the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party have gone a long way, I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to make concise explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u154	I call Mr Biti. BITI (PD). Mr President, thank you. I will try to be brief and to stay within the terms. The G669 agenda contains many of the things that have been said here this morning by so many colleagues who have preceded me, not just from my group, but from all of us. You see, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what I have heard this morning in this House has shown that we all agree that vaccines are important and useful and that they are useful and that public health must also be preserved. Then I wonder why for quite some time - for months - we have been here discussing this, which seems simple. I respond that probably this thousandprorogues is actually a thousandhide, a thousand misunderstandings and a thousandchanges of ideas. We saw it in article 6 in the House, where the government seemed to change its mind at a time, and then change it again an hour later. Why are we here, then, if we all agree to protect public health, not only children and immunodepressants, but all the citizens of Italy? We agree, Senator Romeo, that training and information are needed: precisely through these two things we know that at certain times - and now it is one of them - the obligation to vaccinate is absolutely necessary, in order to guarantee that freedom which was also recalled a moment ago by a senator who preceded me. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what we are asking you: why? There has been no debate, we have been foreclosed in the Commission. My colleague from Movimento 5 Stars who said there was going to be a debate and that they wanted it... president. Please finish. BITI (PD). I shall conclude, Mr President. I ask why none of you have ever opened your mouth in the Commission, to explain to us why something which does not make sense to extend is being extended. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Why is the risk that children and citizens will become seriously ill and even risk dying? Why do you work with me? No one told us, neither you nor the government, that this morning is absent. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to what President Marcucci said: in this debate we show that within this Article 6, which provides for an extension of education and university, an important issue such as health has been hidden. [[Protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u155	I have to take your word off, Senator Biti, you're out of time: you've been talking for three minutes, while I've only given you two. Please close up.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u156	BITI (PD). You are right, Mr President, but I have been speaking for two minutes and fifty-five seconds. However, I conclude by saying that we have shown that we are dealing with a health issue and we would have liked the Minister of Health to be present to explain why.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u157	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda of the G6.69, tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G6.70, tabled by Senator Bini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G6.71, presented by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G6.72, tabled by Senator Rampi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G6.73, tabled by Senator Verducci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G6.74, tabled by Senator Pharaoh and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda of the G6.75, presented by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G6.76, presented by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to agenda G6.77 which the Government intends to accept as a recommendation. How do the presenters express their views on this matter?
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u158	Mr President, in fact, it is already a recommendation because the mechanism commits the Government to assess the possibility of de-icing. Therefore, I do not think it is possible to recommend that the possibility be assessed. But if the government doesn't change its mind, which I think would be appropriate (and in fact it doesn't), the recommendation is also good, as long as it does.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u159	Does the government change its mind? GUIDESI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. No. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G6.77 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. Since all the agendas referred to in Articles 7 and 8 are inadmissible, we shall proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 9 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u160	I am against all the amendments. I am in favour of order G9.83.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u161	Let us move on to Amendment 9.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u162	I would ask for the vote and I would like to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u163	I give you two minutes, having plenty, and when I say abundantly it means a lot, given time. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u164	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank you for this time and I would also like to say that some of the Senators of the Democratic Party would have liked to have spoken on this point, as I do. I then speak on behalf of the entire Democratic Party. I would like to thank you once again for the time you have given me because, as you know, the subject we are debating is important. We place the theme of the reconstruction of the areas of Central Italy that were hit by the earthquake two years ago. A fundamental issue for us, Mr President; for us in the Democratic Party it is a great national issue. We have shown this by Government in these two years with investments as there had never been any. And we are demonstrating this with our parliamentary battles, even stubbornly, lords of the government, lords of the League and the Movimento 5 Stars, in front of your shoulders, in front of your silence and your indifference. We want the spotlight to stay on, but for you there is darkness. I am from a crater country, like other colleagues in the Democratic Party, and if we are here to fight it is because we know the urgency. We know that spending time on some companies means closing down (and when they close they don't open up); it means losing jobs; it means mortifying life plans. Mr President, let me say that we who live in these places know that they are fragile places, because they are mountain places in the hinterland; but they are strong, strong places of their manufacturing and of an original economic model. Our amendments strengthen manufacturing and services, that is, a core for a project, not only for reconstruction but for living in our territories for the next few years: a project that is fundamental. We then ask ourselves why, in the face of this, these are not repeated. You took vows promising security and protection. Giving answers to those affected by the earthquake means giving security and protection, as well as providing security and protection to allocate funds to the outskirts or allowing the weaker to vaccinate. VOICES FROM M5S AND L-SP-PSd'Az. Stop! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Verducci, I invite you to conclude. Mr Verducci (PD). I understand that this is an issue that you want to eliminate, but at least on the earthquake, ladies and gentlemen, let us say that there are thousands of people, workers and services... Mr President, this is the Government of the Great Deception. They took the vows of the weakest but do the interests of the strongest. But the deceptions, sooner or later, are exposed! [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u165	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 9.2, tabled by Senator Verducci and other senators, up to the words "for the year 2019." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 9.1 to 9.12. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to amendment 9.13, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.13, tabled by Senator Verducci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 9.15 (text 2), on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u166	I would ask for the vote and I would like to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u168	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, on all the issues relating to the earthquake there has been a common commitment of the whole Senate. The government undertook, when we made the measure, as all colleagues will remember, to address a number of issues that, at that stage, were not possible to address. Now, we are at the third reading in this measure and it is not possible to address these issues. But I'm asking if the government's commitment is confirmed. That's what I'm interested in. I'm not interested, as you know, in the controversy. All I'm interested in is whether, at this point, the government will comply with the commitments that we all shared when we discussed the earthquake measure in the special committee. [[Applause from the Mixed-Leu Group and the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u169	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.15 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. [[Senator Errani's comments. The vote will then be taken at the next voting time.]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 9.14 to 9.26 are inadmissible. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G9.83, presented by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 9-c introduced by the House of Deputies in the text of the decree-law, which are to be described, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u170	Mr President, I am against the two amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u171	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 9-c.1 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, until the words "employment levels" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 9-c.2. (text 2) are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and of the agenda referred to Article 11 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u172	Mr President, I am against all the amendments and the G11.84 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u173	Let us move on to amendment 11.1 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 11.1 tabled by Senator Misiani and other senators, up to the words "with the following words." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 11.2 to 11.6. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 11.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I call for a simultaneous vote by ballot of the first part of amendment 11.5, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators, up to the words "with the following words." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 11.7. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to amendment 11.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I call for a simultaneous vote by ballot of the first part of amendment 11.8, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators, up to the words "25 million euros." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 11.9 and 11.10. Let us move on to Amendment 11.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.11 tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 11.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.12 tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G11.84, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments to Article 13 are inadmissible. There is a request from the group leaders to suspend the sitting and resume the follow-up to the discussion of the bill at 4 p.m. At 3:00 p.m. there will be a question time. If there are no comments, so it remains established. I therefore suspend the sitting, which will resume at 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.27 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u174	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance and the Minister for Defence will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Steger has the right to explain the question 3-00214 on the legislation on the preferential tax regime for amateur sports associations, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u175	Mr President, Minister, in almost all cases amateur sports associations are currently using the preferential scheme provided for in Law No 398 of 1991. The decree of the President of the Republic n. 633 of 1972, also referred to by the aforementioned law, provides that the persons covered by the facilitated regime are exempted from the obligation of invoicing, with the exception, however, among others, of the sponsorship operations. Otherwise, the new code of the third sector (legislative decree no. 117 of 2017) provides that voluntary bodies, among which amateur sports associations would belong, are not taxable persons VAT, if the amount of commercial revenues achieved has not exceeded in total 130,000 euros. The green light from the EU Commission could be an element of support for an eventual extension of the facilitation to amateur sports associations that were in a condition equivalent to that of the entities authorized to enjoy the exclusion from VAT, therefore sports associations with commercial revenues less than 130,000 euros. It is asked whether the Minister does not consider it conceivable that the sponsorship services provided by amateur sports associations - which have exercised the option for the application of the provisions on direct taxes and VAT and whose volume of revenue achieved in the previous year is not higher than the limit referred to in Article 86 above - are not considered to be carried out in the context of the business activity, provided that they are directly related to the pursuit of sporting activities.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u176	The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Professor Tria, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u177	Mr President, the interrogating senators consider that it is appropriate to introduce an amendment to the current legislation aimed at providing for exclusions for VAT purposes from the scope of the business activity of the related sponsorship services and aimed at the performance of sports activities carried out by amateur sports associations which have opted for the application of the scheme provided for in Law No 398 of 16 December 1991, whose volume of revenue achieved in the previous year is not higher than the limit of 130,000 euros. I recall, in this regard, the flat-rate scheme, referred to in Article 86 of the Code of the third sector, approved by Legislative Decree No 117 of 3 July 2017. The latter, covering the different categories of voluntary organisations and social promotion associations, provides for a special flat-rate scheme to be applied to them if they do not receive revenues exceeding EUR 130,000 per year. This scheme does not exclude VAT subjectivity, but provides for significant simplifications in accounting requirements. Those who opt for the scheme, in particular, are required to issue, list and retain invoices and customs bills, and to pay the tax on active transactions, while they do not pay or deduct VAT on purchases. The interrogating senators, recalling this distinct regime, ask to introduce a presumption of non-commerciality of sponsorships carried out by amateur sports associations. In this regard, it should be noted that, pursuant to the presumption contained in Article 4 (5) (i) of the Decree of the President of the Republic No 633 of 1972 and in accordance with Directive 2006/112/EC, for VAT purposes, the activities relating to commercial advertising, in which sponsorship services are also included, are considered in any case commercial. The hypothesis put forward by the interrogators of introducing a presumption of non-commerciality in legislation for sponsorship activities by amateur sports associations, even if limited to small players, would be in stark contrast to the European Directive 2006/112/EC on value added tax, which offers no room for granting such a derogation to the mechanism for the operation of the tax. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Steger has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u178	Minister, I take note of what you have unfortunately said. With a view to a revision of the European directive which is about to be discussed in Brussels, I wanted to know whether, from a substantive point of view, since we are always talking about a similar activity to those of the third sector, the Government believes that it shares this position. I know that the directive is not yet in force, but I also know that the amendment is being discussed at European level. That was the point of my question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u179	Senator Bonino has the right to explain Question 3-00209 on the proposed "tax peace" measures for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u180	Mr Minister, the question that I asked you and which you have before your eyes is very simple: can you update the Senate on the proposals for "tax peace," misleading euphemism - it seems to me - for pardon, but so I understood it. In particular, I would ask you whether you can give us an estimate of the expected revenue, since there can be various areas of intervention and various throws can come, just as we have all read in the last few days. He's kind of a troublemaker. I know perfectly well, since historical times, what are the tensions when you arrive at the budgetary session, especially in the coalition governments. I find it improper for someone to expect a serious minister to find the resources, even you could not print money: it means doing it in deficit, because I see no other possibility. In any case, in order to put some order, although I imagine that the negotiations are under way and I am afraid they will get worse, as is traditionally the case at all the budgetary sessions - this time a little more aggressive - I ask you whether you can update us on the revenue you think can be obtained from the former 'tax peace', which is now a pardon. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Professor Tria, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u181	Mr President, with this document, the Senator asks for clarification on the so-called "tax peace" measures that this Government intends to introduce. I remember - as I have said several times - that talking about "tax peace" means not launching new condones, but thinking of a tax friendly of the taxpayer, which favors the extinction of debts. In this respect, initiatives are being considered to ensure effective help for people in difficulty, in line with a regulation on the assessment and collection of tax compliance aimed at increasing tax compliance. In view of the need for technical insight into the different solutions to be examined, I am sorry, but it is not possible to provide a reliable and timely estimate of the revenue effects of the new measures that will be introduced. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Bonino has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u182	Mr. Minister, I take note of the answer, which I was somewhat expecting. I can only wish you some more respectful colleagues - if I may say so - than the national, European and international competences and roles of an economic minister. I'll go back to office later to see if we can figure something out better. In the meantime, I wish you good work. Try to understand her for all of us. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u183	Senator Ciriani has the right to explain the question 3-00213 on family welfare and income support measures, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u184	Minister, you are engaged in the task - I would call it acrobatic - of keeping together the various demands of your majority. In particular, both yesterday and today, President Conte and the Minister of Maio reiterated the need to introduce the so-called citizenship income. I will not dwell more on the judgment we give of this measure, which we believe will not produce any of the desired effects, for the growth neither of consumption nor of gross domestic product; on the contrary, we consider it a diseducational measure because it will push many, especially to the South, to the black work and to wait at home or at the bar for the state cheque. The problem I would like to raise is that of the diction contained in the citizenship income contract, where it is explicitly stated that this measure is limited and is granted only to Italian citizens. We share this principle, because we consider it correct. I and the party I represent, Brothers of Italy, do not believe that everyone has a right to everything and that there is a common sense priority for Italian citizens, for Italian families who for twenty, thirty or forty years have contributed to creating wealth and perhaps are now in a situation of economic difficulty, and cannot be placed on the same level as those who came to this country from abroad two years ago or even two days ago. Professor Tria - I address the professor before the Minister - but you know that many judgments of the Constitutional Court - I say this not because I share it, but because it is an objective fact - and also of the European courts, of the Court of Justice of Luxembourg and of the Court of Strasbourg, have repeatedly reiterated that in the matter of welfare services, so-called universal and essential, there can be no distinction between Italian citizens and foreign citizens. So the question is: is the Government able to guarantee that this measure will only concern Italian citizens and not even foreigners? Foreign families, in fact, are 1,600,000 and many of them are in poverty. There is therefore a real risk of opening a hole in the public accounts. It is easy to imagine that many of these families will apply for access to the measure of citizenship income. I ask you, therefore, if the Government intends to proceed along this path, if it has an estimate of the additional costs and of how many more families could be received to the extent of the income of citizenship, if it were also extended to foreign citizens as it is now for the social security services introduced by the Government Gentiloni Silveri. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Professor Tria, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u185	Mr President, the welfare measures provided for in the government contract consist of support mechanisms for families and income support instruments, including the introduction of an income and a citizenship pension, in favour of Italian citizens in need. Technical insights between the various administrations involved in terms of both the configuration of the different measures, and the definition of the audience of the recipients of the measures, in line with the indications of the Government contract, to be introduced in the next financial maneuver, have been in progress for a long time. It is aware that citizenship requirements, and possibly residence requirements, can only be introduced in accordance with Article 3 of the Constitution and EU legislation. The recent constitutional jurisprudence, in declaring the illegality of certain requirements introduced by state and regional legislation, with judgments no. 106, 107 and 166 of 2018, moreover, recognised, in particular in the last sentence cited, that the possibility remains that the legislator will identify other indices of territorial and social rooting to which the welfare measures - in this case was the rent bonus - subject to the limits imposed by the principle of non-discrimination and reasonableness. It should also be noted that the legislative initiative already put forward by Movimento 5 Stars during the previous legislature, the bill No 1148 of 2013, which identified a scheme of minimum income conditional on the presence of the family income requirements and the behaviour of the beneficiaries, provided that this measure could be accessed by Italian citizens or by the Member State of the European Union resident in the national territory. As regards third-country nationals, however, the provision in question conditioned the usability of the support to the fact that their countries of origin had signed bilateral social security agreements with Italy. Finally, it is significant to recall the current social inclusion income institution, where it is envisaged, with reference to the residence and residence requirements, that the applicant component of the measure should be jointly: as a first condition, a citizen of the European Union or his family member who is entitled to the right of residence or permanent residence, or a third-country national who holds the residence permit in the Union for long-term residents; as a second condition, who has been continuously resident in Italy for at least two years at the time of submission of the application. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Ciriani has the right to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u186	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall read the written text of the Minister's reply, because it seems to me that I have understood that in his final statements he partly refutes what he said at the beginning. Moreover, the judgments cited by the Minister relate not to the income of citizenship, that is to say to a universal anti-poverty measure, but to other additional measures of social service, which are not comparable. From this point of view, the case law is quite clear. The risk we see, Minister, is that, faced with an appeal to the TAR or civil court by a foreign national, the Government will then be forced to open this measure to all other legally and legally resident foreign citizens, as you said at the end of your speech. I refer telegraphically to an experience that I know very well, that of the Region Friuli-Venezia Giulia, where a citizenship income was introduced in 2016: you think that, although the foreign population is 9 percent of the total one, it has enjoyed 40 percent of the social measures, because foreign families are usually more numerous, have no real estate and usually access before the Italian families to social services. Therefore, we run the risk of having not only an economically ineffective measure, but also a mockery for Italian families, operated by a Government that says - and we would be happy if it did - that it wanted to act first and foremost for Italian families. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u187	Senator Mallegni has the right to explain the question 3-00215 on the resources necessary to finance the measures provided for in the Government contract, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u188	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I make a brief premise. The Italian economy is experiencing a situation of uncertainty - but to tell you, Minister, it is superfluous - and of possible cyclical slowdown, in which there is evidence of the strong increase in the yield that Italy is forced to pay in order to place its government bonds, which constitutes an immediate and concrete cost and at the same time a very indicative figure. This performance is now at least half a point higher than the values marked until spring 2018. The comparison with the similar rates obtained by Germany, measured with the so-called spread, at least 100 points above the 2017 average, confirms that this is not an international trend but, unfortunately, an all-Italian phenomenon. In recent days, the Minister in address has repeatedly publicly stated that he wants to maintain - of course - the government programme within the budgetary limits necessary to maintain the confidence of the financial markets - we must acknowledge this - and, therefore, avoid the financial instability that would lead to a damage to growth and would make even more costly the cost of Italian debt, the famous 1.6 percent of the deficit/GDP ratio, which you have often mentioned in recent weeks. Moreover, the very recent statements by the Minister himself - his statements - which, on several occasions, defined flat tax - are also one of the pillars of our centre-right government programme - the classic one, at a single rate, now surpassed and sunset. This approach contrasts, however, with the statements of authoritative government representatives, the two Vice-Presidents of the Council of Ministers, who said they were ready to approve in the next budget law the so-called flat tax, the income of citizenship, the reform of pensions, including through an overtaking of the European constraint of 3%. In this scenario it is essential that government action does not further deter the level of trust in the markets and international credibility. All major economic, national and international institutions have recently revised downwards the growth estimates of Italian gross domestic product, both for 2018 and 2019. This revision automatically leads to a deterioration in the debt-to-GDP ratio, requiring the Government to make further corrective efforts to maintain the objectives that can reassure investors, which are also agreed with the European Union. However, interest expenditure on debt is likely to increase further due to the cessation of the European Central Bank's quantitative easing programme. The government has undertaken to prevent any increase in the VAT rates provided for in the safeguard clauses, and this morning we read something different. In short, Minister, we ask you if you do not think you can clarify by what initiatives and with what resources you intend to implement the measures mentioned in the preamble to which, given the declarations of the other members of the Government, you will certainly not be able to derogate. [[Applause from Senator Vitali]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u189	The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Professor Tria, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u190	Mr President, with reference to the question of Senator Bernini and others, it is confirmed that the Government's objective is to ensure the gradual implementation of the economic policy interventions contained in the Government contract compatible with the need to ensure the balance of the structural balances of public finance. In the preliminary work so far carried out, in close liaison with the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and with colleagues of Government, it is working in full respect of the resolutions on the Economic and Financial Document approved by Senate and Chamber last June. With regard to the measures through which it is intended to achieve these objectives, as well as to find the resources to be allocated to their implementation, the Government will identify the areas of intervention when preparing the Update Note to the DEF, which will be presented to the Parliament shortly, and in any case by the end of September, and in that forum will provide the framework of the various measures aimed at ensuring the implementation of the Government contract that will find concrete implementation through the drafting of the next draft budget law and the financial maneuver for 2019.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u191	Senator Mallegni may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u192	Mr Minister, as Senator Bonino said earlier, it was natural that you did not give us the numbers today, but it was important that the Senate and at least all of us - I have also written it - asked you, what accounts you mean - and the comparison with the President of the Count Council seems to me right - to tell the hosts that, frankly, in order to implement a government program - we too, who hoped to be a government force, had set ourselves up - need a period of five years. Does the problem know what it is? Knowing that you are lacking both in patience, of course, and - allow me - competence, both essential conditions, probably implementing all this in ninety, one hundred twenty or one hundred and eighty days will be impossible. Unfortunately, however, this nation, this government and this state cannot be continuously in the election campaign and you cannot be thrown in your jacket just because in a few months' time there will be European elections. [[Applause from Senator Vitale.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u193	Senator Garavini has the right to explain the question 3-00216 on the program for the purchase of drones by the Air Force, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u194	Minister, we must have moral and ethical rules for the operation of drones, because technological evolution puts them in a position to decide which goals to strike through an algorithm, without human decisions. This is a debate that we attended at the last UN conference in Geneva a few weeks ago, and which we must make our own, because it is important. Having said that, Minister, there is no doubt that drones are already an important part of international defence policies and are destined to become even more so. First of all, they allow reconnaissance in high-risk areas without endangering the lives of pilots, since they are remotely operated, and on the other hand they allow a number of applications for civil use. I remember - for example - that they can be used in environmental monitoring, and therefore in order to prevent catastrophic events, or in the control of the progressive deterioration of infrastructural works, which acquires a particular importance also in the light of the recent tragedy of the Morandi Bridge in Genoa. They could also be used for border control. In short, there are a number of applications that make the use and production of drones particularly interesting and important for the future. Italy therefore cannot be absent in the production of drones, also because it can boast remarkable excellences, acquired in recent years through the investments made in the production of drones P.1HH, precisely because skills and know-how have matured, not to mention intellectual property. These know-how and skills concern not only the company possibly interested in the construction, Piaggio, but all the related, articulated production chain. That is why, Minister, in this question time we are asking what the government's position is to be. In his first hearing, in Camere reunited, he only flew over the subject, but the issue is too important and the different vetoes put by the government on a number of important public investments - I am thinking of the recent decision on the Winter Olympics, but also those presumably assumed on the TAV and the TAP - make us fear the worst. With this question we ask what is the intention of your Ministry. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Defence, Professor Trenta, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u195	Mr President, the part of the Government's contract relating to Defense establishes the indistinguishability of the protection of the Italian industry in the defence sector, with particular regard to the financing of research and the implementation of national know-how in the non-military field (design and construction of ships and aircraft and hi-tech systems). In this respect, in relation to the development - for example - of the drone mail programme, in-depth studies are being carried out by the Dicastery in order to identify, in relation to the capabilities offered by the system, the widest possible spectrum of employment, beyond the fundamental strengthening of the intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance capabilities of the Defense. I am referring, as already outlined in the presentation of the policy lines of my Dicastery, to the concept of dual use, i.e. its applications also in civil contexts as an example, to land control, to the environment, to the fight against forest fires, to the monitoring of archaeological sites. In this regard, precisely by virtue of the aforementioned dual use of the aircraft in question, the development of the program finds the full approval from my Dicastery also in consideration of the fact that the scheme of decree has already been concerted with the Ministry of Economy and Finance and previews the financing drawing from the chapters of investment of the state of forecast of the Defense in the within of the resources enrolled to the mission and security of the territory and the resources brought from article 1, paragraph 140, of the law of budget 2017, law n. 232 of 2016. It should be pointed out, however, that, from the procedural point of view, the approval of the draft decree of the multiannual programme relating to the drone mail programme is a parliamentary competence, since the prior opinion of the Parliamentary Commissions is required as it relates to programmes for modernisation and renewal not related to the maintenance of allocations or redeployment of stocks directly intended for national defence. Moreover, I represent that it is still in evaluation the most suitable mode of governance of the program previewing the involvement of Piaggio aerospace and Leonardo because, in accordance with what defined in the aforementioned government contract, the two companies constitute, without any doubt, two national excellences in the industry of field with strong hi-tech connotations, of which it is required from the Dicastery the necessary safeguard in virtue of the know-how of which they have, the occupational reflections and the economic induced that reverberano on the territory. In conclusion, I want to represent you that the competences that will be acquired with the implementation of the program will constitute a remarkable baggage in terms of know-how that can be usefully exploited in the international European context, both as an opportunity in a constantly expanding market sector, and as a national strength in industrial initiatives in the European context in the same field. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Vattuone to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u196	Minister, we gave you the opportunity to clarify the development of the remote-piloted aircraft, an innovative product, although there was no need for it, because we have already worked on it in the Commission with hearings on several occasions. We take note that you have declared a kind of sharing of the program, although you have mentioned the need for some insights. I insist, however, because we have held many hearings. You said that Parliament must express itself. Mine is therefore an appeal. Let us hope that the majority will be clear inside and that they will not make time for the actual decision to be taken. We have been discussing this in the Commission for four months. We then take note of the government's willingness to share and call on the majority to clarify itself within it. The statements within the majority are in fact of opposite sign from both the League and from the Movimento 5 Stars; there are those who are opposed and those who are in favour. This is important, because we are faced with the development of an innovative product that has important economic repercussions. There are strategic companies that for months, if not at least a year, have prepared industrial plans, even five-year plans, and there are about 2,000 jobs at stake, with a prospect of growth and this uncertainty creates great confusion. We will therefore insist in the Commission, also in the light of its statements of sharing, that it be decided quickly.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u197	Senator Saponara has the right to explain question 3-00211 on the accident at work in the military factory of restorations and recovery of the ammunition of Noceto, in the province of Parma, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u198	Mr Minister, I sincerely wanted to avoid bringing to your attention what I am about to say, but the fact that happened on 21 May last at the military factory of restorations and recoverys of ammunization in Noceto, in the province of Parma, obliges me by conscience to submit a delicate question to you. On that date a 37-year-old worker was seriously injured in an accident at work at the factory. An accident that only miraculously did not have tragic consequences, but that still had consequences that will not be easy to erase. The man, in fact, was hit by an explosion of a war device of an artisanal nature - a paper bomb - while he was carrying out operations to make it inert. The situation immediately appeared very serious and in the eyes of the workers his colleagues presented a tremendous spectacle. Everyone, of course, feared the worst for man. The doctors of 118, the fire department and the Carabinieri were immediately mobilized on site. The rescue machine immediately set in motion and the injured worker was hospitalized in the resuscitation department of the Major Hospital of Parma with several deep wounds, including a severe injury to a limb. After a few days of coma the man slowly recovered, but the path of cure and rehabilitation is still long for him and, consequently, for his family. Despite the limited time available to me, I am obliged to recall that the military plant in Noceto is run by the Defence Industries Agency (AID), in which a large part of the technical-industrial area belonging to the Armed Forces has merged for the declared purpose of increasing its efficiency, while at the same time reducing the burden on the budget of the Military Department. This factory, at the time a factory producing bullets, currently houses a plant for the destruction of explosives and remnants of war to which approximately fifty civil servants and about ten soldiers are employed. Once the devices are defused, the parts that compose them are put back and sold on the market, while the gunpowder is burned in a special oven. The structure has always given and has given work to many families of the territory, reaching to employ up to 2,300 people, but this incident, preceded by another similar in January 2015, obliges to ask the government what measures it intends to take to prevent others, guaranteeing effectively the safety of those who lend to you their delicate work and remembering, finally, that in this plant many fathers and mothers of family work, as well as many young people. Minister, I trust in your availability and sensitivity.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u199	The Minister of Defence, Dr. Thirty, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u200	Mr President, a judicial investigation is being carried out on the event of 21 May at the plant in Noceto, which has led to the injury of a worker, in order to determine the causes as well as the responsibilities. It is necessary to specify that the episode did not concern an active production line, but the phase prior to the start of that line or the "collaudo" (collaudo) line. Obviously, the commitment made by the Defence Industries Agency in identifying possible improvements to complement the set of preventive measures already taken over time, with a view to reducing the risks to the safety of personnel for the protection of safety in the workplace at the production units entrusted in management, in compliance with the current regulations. In particular, as a result of this commitment, it has actually resulted in a number of actions with different timings. In the immediate future, in addition to the suspension of the activities of demilitarization of some military artifacts, the AID has commissioned a specialized company to intervene in order to remoteize and automate some phases of the process, starting in parallel a review of the consolidated processes in existence in order to identify the actions of improvement, intervening on the cycles of work or acquiring new specific equipment in order to increase the degree of automation. In addition, the human and financial resources of the plant have been concentrated, as well as instrumental, on the activities necessary to demilitarize significant quantities of materials of the same type to be realized also with specific equipment remoteizable and automatizable, and to externalize such activities limited to the artifacts in small or extremely particular. The first phase (definition of the requirement) of a project for the creation of an innovative working environment is in place, allowing operators to perform remotely and safely even complex activities of manipulation, integration and decomposition of explosive artifacts (worksafe system). Among other things, the central coordination function for health and safety at work has been activated, with the task of coordinating the activities of local prevention and protection service managers, supporting production units and auditing on existing prevention and protection measures. In the context of the continuous improvement measures, it is clear that the professional updating of the staff of the establishment, both permanent and on-the-job, is also included. Before the start of each activity there is an unbreakable phase of information and updating. In the context of the constant, constructive and transparent confrontation with the trade union representatives, on 5 July 2018, a first meeting was held at the Agency's Directorate-General, during which all the information I have spoken about was provided to the national trade union organizations, subsequently transmitted to the same trade union organizations. In conclusion, I represent that the actions are in itinerant in order to extend to all the productive units of the Agency the integrated certification of ambient quality already in place for the general direction and for the plants of Noceto, Baiano and Fontana Liri, whose completion is previewed within the three years 2018-2020. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Saponara has the power to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u201	Minister, thank you for your comprehensive reply. I think this can reassure the community of Noceto, which is always very concerned about what happens inside the plant. I would ask you to ensure that this information can be sent out a little more explicitly, precisely in order to reassure both the population and the workers of the plant. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u202	Senator Mininno has the right to explain question 3-00212 on the strengthening of military structures and personnel in the Mezzogiorno of Italy, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u203	Mr President, Minister for Defence, among the commitments entered into in the contract for the Government of Change, Chapter 9 states that: In order to improve and make the sector more efficient, priority is given to the protection of the staff of the Armed Forces, with explicit reference to the theme of family reunification. This subject, deeply felt by military personnel, is not a simple solution, because, in view of a massive presence of military bases in northern Italy, about 80 percent of the personnel come from the South and in most cases, for various reasons, aspires to return. Parliament has a duty to deal with this problem. For this reason, at my first signing, a draft law on family reunification was presented in the Senate, which aims to ensure greater protection for the stability and serenity of the family, a fundamental right enshrined in Article 29 of the Constitutional Charter, while protecting the administrations themselves, since the consequences of family division inevitably affect the service of the military. This instrument alone, however, is not decisive; on the contrary, the effects of this rule would be frustrated by the lack of organic positions in the bodies located in Southern Italy. It is well known that, in relation to its specificity, the legal status of the defence staff is articulated in a complex of absolutely singular duties and rights, different in substance, compared to that of other civil servants. Moreover, Legislative Decree No 165 of 2001 states that the employment relationship of military personnel remains governed by special rules of public law, subtracting it from the "private" subordinate employment system of other public administrations. There is, therefore, an inevitable prevalence of the public interest of military administrations over the legitimate demands and expectations of staff with stars. The logical consequence is that, although in possession of all the requirements in order to obtain a transfer of headquarters, the military will still be in the condition of not being enlivened, because, in case of automatism, the military administrations would get an excess of staff in the bases of the South, with corresponding reduction in those of the North, that would make these last little or not efficient. It is therefore necessary, considering that it is a governmental competence, to know whether the Minister intends to implement the presence of the infrastructure of military personnel in the Mezzogiorno of the country, with consequent reduction of those currently present in the North, with particular reference to those units whose tasks do not find a strategic or operational motivation for which a specific geographical allocation is necessary.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u204	The Minister for Defence, Professor Trenta, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u205	Mr President, I would like to thank the interrogators for giving me the opportunity to present, in more detail than I have been able to do so far, the Dicastery's position on a subject which has been for my personal attention since I took office. As I have always said, the staff is one of the protagonists of the process of change of the institutions; therefore, I feel like a duty to protect to the highest degree the legitimate expectations nourished by those who serve the country, in uniform or in civil clothes, regarding their family dimension, which remains the indispensable basis of our serenity and our work. It is true, as the interrogators themselves have pointed out, that the public interest of which the military administrations are an expression, and to which the staff consciously conform with his oath, implies the absence of guarantees of a given location, even after years of service. It is an objective fact, however, that much of the staff comes from the southern regions of the Peninsula, while the current situation sees two thirds of the military infrastructure located in the Centre-North. This imbalance - I say it only by the way - exists despite an important effort of rationalization that has affected the entire national territory, as a result of which were included in disposal and rationalization activities as many as 1,800 military infrastructures, significantly decreasing the real estate footprint in the areas of Northern Italy. In order to further influence this situation, investments are needed to build new infrastructures or to strengthen existing ones to accommodate the institutions that would be centralized there. This is an articulated process, the fruits of which would be seen in the medium to long term, which requires a robust intergovernmental synergy and, not least, intense interlocations with the various administrations that would see the reduction of the military presence on their territory. In this respect, I feel it is my duty to emphasise two aspects. First of all, if this process will also contribute to a more homogeneous distribution of infrastructure on the territory, it will not be able to solve alone the problem of contesting the necessary distribution of personnel throughout the national territory with recruitments with geographical prevalence concentrated only in some regions. Secondly, under the operational plan, it will always be necessary to have armed forces equally distributed on the national territory in order to be able to deengage quickly, and with the effectiveness of always, in the implementation of the institutional tasks related to emergency situations and public disasters in favor of the population, even in a dual use perspective that sees us increasingly engaged in the service of the country. There is not, therefore, a single solution that can meet apparently so conflicting needs, but we need to consider so many parallel and convergent measures to alleviate inconveniences and best meet staff expectations. I would like to mention, as an example, a project on which the Defence Staff is already working, which consists in creating, within the Armed Forces, territorial units made up of personnel no longer very young that, while continuing to train, can also operate at the same time for the benefit of other administrations for activities of competition to protect the territory and support the Civil Protection. In this way, these nuclei would be an instrument that could bring people closer to home and reduce aging. In short, the measures necessary to respond to the problem involve the need to explore solutions that cover different areas of the Dicastery. We are considering all possible solutions to be adopted in the medium to long term, with the firm determination to work to protect, enhancing it to the highest degree, the family dimension of the defence personnel. It is an act heard, before that due, from me and the institution that I represent. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Mininno has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u206	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his detailed and comprehensive reply. I express great appreciation for the unprecedented attention he is showing on the theme of family reunification. I would add that it is also time for the Commission to take on the issue, which I remember is strongly felt by military personnel, perhaps even more than the economic aspect of salaries. I am aware that the shift towards the South of Italy of the centre of gravity of military personnel's structures cannot take place overnight, but on the contrary there will be a need for time. Also on behalf of the co-signators of the question, I can say that I am satisfied with your commitment to work in this direction. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u207	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I suspend the sitting until 4 p.m., as announced by the Presidency. (The sitting was suspended at 3.50 p.m. and resumed at 4 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u208	We shall now proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u209	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u210	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u211	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, the debate on the conversion of the so-called'multi-pronged' decree-law has already seen us intervene, as Senators of LEU, in the various passages and in an explanation of vote on the amendments, in particular on the issues which we have considered to be absolutely central to this measure. We have, therefore, already had the opportunity to speak on the subject, on certain specific issues. However, it is evident to everyone that the summer version of the usual decree-milleproroghe law, after the first passage to the Senate and then to the Chamber, has progressively assumed - it is useless to pretend of nothing - a series of very precise political meanings. It has also given signs and directions of what they want to be and will probably be this majority and the so-called Government of Change. We have had, with the inauguration of the summer version of the measure milleproroghe, the demonstration that, evidently, for a series of reasons and problems within the majority, you have entered the context of certain issues not with total proposals, not with a capacity - even in the electoral campaign you had declared to have - to revolt everything, to modify much (the Government of change), but with small tastings, extensions, partial interventions, which in the end have given a mark to this decree-law milleproroghe, not only negative, but also the sign of a great confusion. Above all, Mr President, you have obviously changed your mind on some of the issues which you had also seen in the election campaign. I would add that it is surprising that this is the second measure that you bring to Parliament's attention. The first was the decree-law dignity, also in that case announced with great trumpet ringing as a way to overcome and tear the jobs act; in the end, going on the merits, evidently the jobs act we still hold it. It was slightly scratched and the announcement did not have the consequences that you even let think. Now choose the thousand-pronged provision to make announcements and "tastings" of what you want to do. In fact, this decree-law continues to be, as is typical of the thousandprorogues, certainly not homogeneous being diversified by matter, but in our opinion you have added so many elements of uncertainty and confusion. I am talking, for example, about the issue of vaccines, on which my colleague Errani has also politely intervened. Of course, the majority has every right - as had also been announced - to intervene in an overall manner with a bill, and today, precisely, you said you had presented it. Perhaps, however, you should have avoided, in our view, the adoption of a first amendment in the transition to the Senate and then made statements to the Minister who reassured and said something else, giving later, in front of the school leaders who were concerned, by other insurances, and finally presenting another amendment to the House to extend the possibility of self-certification. Obviously all this was legitimate, but you had to take full responsibility for making clear what was the sign on which to work to intervene and reform that decree. Instead, in this thousandfold, you have only sown confusion and, in the end, misinformation. I think you might have, too, Mr President. I meet people who ask me if these vaccinations should eventually be done or not. This is a very serious problem because, I repeat, we are talking about very sensitive issues, on which parents are hypersensitive (we know perfectly) and playing and not having certainty in this field I think it is really very dangerous. Secondly, with regard to the issue of the ban on the outskirts, you could come, given that interpretations and misunderstandings have arisen, and explain that you intended to completely change the agreement and delete it. Instead the norm passes and is voted, because there is a certain kind of interpretation, but then there is the uprising of the ANCI and some members of the Government intervene that say some things and the Deputy Minister Garavaglia who says others. We are also asking for the ban on the outskirts - we have also tried to do so in the course of the debate in the Commission, certainly not with obstructive attitudes, as you know, but always on the subject - to bring some rationality back, providing assurances and elements of clarity. In fact, whenever we, as legislators, move, we not only send out messages but, in the case of municipalities, metropolitan areas and local authorities, we are intervening on procedures that have already begun, on commitments already made. Here too, a minimum of certainty is needed, not confusion. We had also offered you a way out, proposing an agenda which could have given elements not only to please and to prevent any opposition in this House but to give clarity to the municipalities, including the subject of the agreement in that agenda, as had been presented by the President of the Count Council and the ANCI. Nor has this been done and it is clear from the speeches made by some members of the majority who continue to have different interpretations: on the one hand we even try to contrast the resources placed on the ban on the suburbs with the small municipalities, that is, we are talking about absolutely different issues, having, however, all collectively, already in the last legislature, assumed the theme of the suburbs as a central theme. In fact, during the last parliamentary term in the House a survey was carried out on the outskirts by an ad hoc Committee of Inquiry. We know that there are very serious and worrying social and economic elements on which it is necessary to intervene in order to remove them and implement projects that prevent and contrast poverty and the emergency, even the one that is concrete in those areas, because it is everyone's interest, because it helps in social coexistence, it helps against disintegration. Finally, the last pearl: with regard to the magisterial graduates and the reopening of the races - I will repeat as long as I have a voice - I will continue the battle that, in this place, had been carried out even with a part of the opposition, Senators of the Movimento 5 Stars, because we considered it an absolutely discriminatory element. With the decision of the Council of State, the question was then even more complicated. The amendment in the Senate is approved, but what happens? Obviously the Minister of Education, University and Research did not agree with you and the amendment is deleted in the House, creating once again a situation of discomfort, because as you know, Mr President, I am at risk between 42,000 and 50,000 jobs and we are facing, for the first time, a mass dismissal that had never been seen. We have done so and we have all filled our mouths with didactic continuity, but what is happening - and could have been resolved by that amendment - is precisely the breaking of didactic continuity. In fact, it is said to those teachers, who have determined and guaranteed the continuity of teaching for years and years, that they are obviously not useful and that today there will be no prospect for them. For all these reasons, Mr President and colleagues, the Senators of the Free and Equal Group will vote against this measure. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u212	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u213	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u214	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, the one thousand-pronged decree, which we adopted at first reading at the sitting of 6 August last, returns to the House today after the examination and the changes introduced to the Chamber of Deputies, where we believe that the Government has unlawfully requested a vote of confidence. Before I go into the details of some issues, I want to express first of all a political and, if I may, sentimental feeling. The majority produced a thousand-pronged measure on 31 December, and today that we are here for its final approval we have to ask ourselves sincerely about the fate and future of everything that has been suspended and unsolved. I am thinking, for example - and this is the first question I want to raise - of the issue of earthquakes and reconstruction. Will what has not been resolved slip into next October's budget law, or do we even have to imagine another thousandprorogations for everything that has remained unsolved and suspended? More than a set of extensions, the feeling that you have is that of a gigantic postponement, but I will come back to that later. I want to reiterate that there is half of Italy, the one hit by the earthquake, which waits not to see the state pass through the areas affected by the earthquake, but that it would like to feel its hand and see its concrete help. All this is not there and there is no room where it could and should have been. I would point out then that this is a postponement and not a prolongation, probably due to the contradictions within the majority, and that is the feeling that emerges. In the same way the feeling emerges that space is little, if not null, to mediate in the parliamentary classrooms, as well as in the Commissions, because it is as if everything was exhausted and swallowed up in the dynamics, indeed in the frictions, inside the Government. The second issue that I want to highlight is that which, I would say quite rightly this morning, has led to a heated debate. I am referring to the resounding turnarounds on the subject of vaccines. On this sensitive and sensitive issue - I remember in August in this Chamber a heartfelt speech by a colleague from Movimento 5 Stars who differed from her Group - there were unfortunately two or three second thoughts. All this happened while the country was waiting for answers and while in Italy, as in the rest of Europe on the other hand, diseases that have been eradicated for a long time come back and, for example, the cases of measles increase. You created a state of confusion and alarm on this sensitive subject, and you created it as a new school year began. To this confusion, colleagues, the principals responded, the parents, the mothers, and not only those who have immune-depressed children who cannot take to school. And as the country responded to this state of confusion and alarm, the feeling is that the Assembly, the majority and the Government were distant, distant, insensitive, when not even and worse - I want to say - taken from a sort of ideological fury. The feeling, in fact, is that an important game has been ideologicalized by deliberately closing its eyes to the data and positions expressed by the national and international scientific community, which has provided all the data to correctly frame the situation, stressing the need for a vaccination policy without uncertainty. The World Health Organization has also been uncomfortable, which has drawn everyone to the reality and evidence of the numbers. Another issue, great confusion and great chaos the milleproroghe produced on the funds destined to the outskirts and, although appreciating the effort of those who today claim here that the funds at the outskirts will not be removed until 2020, reality tells another story: that of all those cities that remain out of the funding because they did not have the projects ready. This is not a marginal issue either for politics or for society; it is not a marginal issue if we want to retread the wrong plot of the social and national community. Taking care of the outskirts is and must be central to any policy of good governance. Brothers of Italy, as a responsible force, as a patriotic opposition - as we like to call ourselves - that has at heart the fate of the country, the House and the Senate has proposed many amendments asking the majority to converge to correct some errors contained in the text. We have appreciated - I stress - the acceptance today of our agenda for a return to the direct election of the President of the Province and the provincial councillors, but, nevertheless, on 31 October, votes will be held in some Provinces with a wrong electoral system, so-called Delrio. We would like to reiterate and draw the attention of everyone and the Government to the urgency of scheduled examination of a draft law which immediately clarifies what is on the agenda approved on this subject. The last question, but not least in order of importance, among those that remain unresolved, perhaps I would say the most disappointing, the most burning - I want to stress - is the lack of correction, the promised overcoming of the law on good school, about the vast world of precarious teachers, whose protests have not been heard, whose proposals have not been accepted. Even - we must remember, to be honest with ourselves and with the country - on the skin of the teachers has consumed, in addition to the damage, also the mockery: that of a vote first expressed in the most total confusion last August 6 and then cynically corrected after the summer. Ladies and gentlemen, if this milleproroghe was, it is and remains a test bench in which the announcements do not matter, but they matter the decisions, it has not been given a sign of seriousness; it has not been given a signal of responsibility. Brothers of Italy, consistently, therefore, can only reiterate its opposition, as already expressed at first reading, considering that the changes introduced have not been improved. The contrary vote of the Senators of the Brothers of Italy has many reasons for merit, as I have tried to express in the process of synthesis, and also reasons of method: in fact we have placed - and we claim it - a preliminary constitutionality on the forced recourse to the decree of urgency. President, in conclusion, I come back to that feeling from which I started at the beginning of my speech. The feeling is that this political majority does not decide, does not make legislative measures that are not decree-laws and does not determine, or resolve, but announcements and referrals. Announcements and referrals: this decree-law is proof of this. We of the Brothers of Italy Group, as a political force that is not in the majority, do not say to you banally a "we expected more," but with sincerity, conviction and determination we tell you that we hoped more, for the country and the national interest, that must always be prevalent. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u215	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u216	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u217	RENZI (PD). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, we vote 'no' to this decree-law for reasons of method and merit. We vote 'no' for reasons of method, because in the last legislature the Movimento 5 Stars and the League have repeatedly asked not to proceed with the traditional decree milleproroghe at the end of the year. We haven't always listened to them, almost never. It is true, however, that in the last few years of the parliamentary term we have interrupted the way in which we put forward the decree one thousandprorogates at the end of the year. You have not only changed your position as soon as you went to the government, but you have even doubled, by doing a thousandprorogations in August, which is a uniform but which, in the method, marks a precise political choice: that of postponing, taking time and extending, without saying the answers to which the citizens forced you. Let us be very clear, colleagues of the majority: both your speech is yes, yes, no, no, no. You started by postponing e-invoicing for fuel distributors: it is difficult to combat tax evasion when the founder of the Movement has particular problems with payments in black, I understand. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] However, it is an objective fact that you have continued by referring to all positions. Are you doing TAP, yes or no? Are you doing the TAV, yes or no? The Gronda in Genoa, yes or no? [[Applause from the PD Group.]] The withdrawal of concessions to the Freeways that you committed to: do you, yes or no? The 15% flat tax you promised the citizens: do you, yes or no? The income of citizenship at 780 euros monthly and the cancellation and cancellation of the Fornero law: yes or no? What is a thousand-fold, then, Mr President? It is the desire to postpone and postpone. This government has a definite television capacity: for communication it relies on an experience of the "Big Brother" and for the university at "Le hyene", the Minister of the Interior opens the notices of guarantee and seems "There is mail for you." But in reality, the real TV reference point of this government is the fact that your electoral promises are worthy of a separate joke. Your electoral promises have deceived the citizens and you are here today to say: postponement, prorogo, refer (and it will not be the rudeness of some interruption to deny the reality). [[Applause from the PD Group.]] On the contrary, there is a different fact of merit, and colleagues from the Democratic Party and the other oppositions have explained very well the many aspects with which we reason our "no". Personally, I just mention the outskirts: the Minister of the Interior, Vice President Salvini, said "Enough with the projects at the renziana". I would like you to remain in the proceedings of this Senate of the Republic as the project for the outskirts was born, so that you know what you are saying. In November 2015 Paris and Europe were shocked by the attack on Bataclan. All European governments put more money on security and someone says: We're at war. We make a different choice: at the Capitol, the Government of the Republic announces more interventions on military security, the plan of the army in the streets and, at the same time, an investment in culture, education and peripheries, obtaining on the point a substantial applause and a sharing (I would say more the second than the first). Well, there was born the project of the suburbs, the first 500 million, to which are added the following year 1,600 million to do what? Not to screw up the projects at the renziana, Mr. Vice President Salvini, but to say yes to all the mayors [[Applause from the PD Group]] , including mayors of the 5 Star Movement and League administrations, as is natural. And what happened today, a few minutes ago? The ANCI left the unified conference by telling the government that it was failing a loyalty pact between institutions. By voting "no" today we reaffirm our confidence in the Republic, which is based on unity and collaboration between the central government and local institutions. You're not taking the money out of PD, you're taking the money out of your citizens and the suburbs of your cities. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] I close, saying that among the many arguments mentioned, there can be no lack of a reference to vaccines. You guys have done a tricky thing about vaccines. You on vaccines had a decree-law written not to scientists, but to shamans. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] You questioned science and research. You have also chosen in your statements to make no vaxes with the children of others, because you say that you vaccinated your children, but do not worry about the weaker children, who will not be able to go to school because of your responsibilities. I don't know if we realize what a huge thing this is. I would like to thank my colleagues for the opposition, particularly the Democratic Party, for having made a tough opposition, to the House with obstruction and night work, to the Senate with great multiple intervention in the Commission. But I want to say to you - and I want to say to myself first - that this battle of civilization, which the PD has done well to do, is not a battle for PD, because that on vaccines is not a battle like that on citizenship income or flat tax or on the so-called Fornero law, which can legitimately see us in dissent; here there is science against scaramanzia, superstition, ignorance. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] And in the face of this choice, those commentators who wonder out of here where the opposition is, I ask: where is the public opinion, where are the great newspapers? Only the New York Times did a piece of a certain intensity on the subject of vaccines, unfortunately taking around Italy. Let me say that on this battle he is not a senator, he is not a congressman, civil society has to intervene and here, after thanking Roberto Burioni, I thank an Italian named Ivan Zaytsev, captain of the volleyball team, who had the courage to challenge haters and the hatred engineered on social media to say something simple, that he went to vaccinate his princess and did it without fear of reaction. She's the most beautiful squashed captain of our volleyball team. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] I would like him to receive our thanks and to receive the thanks of all those who think that we cannot leave the opposition only to the people who are in Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] I'm done, ma'am. We often say that time is a gentleman. [[Comments of the Senators Maiorino and Pirro]] In these days the minds of many of our generation have gone to a curious fact: Henry Winkler, an actor better known in Italy as Fonzie, a character who played forty years ago... LUCIDES (M5S). Of course we're at levels... RENZI (PD). There's some Ralph Malph who needs to intervene and we can take it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] This actor won the perhaps most important award, the Emmys. He had been waiting for forty-three years or so; compared to what a creditor of the League will expect, he has been doing well, because it has been forty-three years versus eighty years. The weather was more gracious for Winkler than for the creditors of the League. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] The point is that on vaccines time will be gallant man. And I would like each of you to feel the responsibility, in pressing that button, not to vote for or against your own party, but to vote for or against your own children. In two years, in a year or a year and a half, this country will find itself in a series of objective difficulties. The economic crisis that supporters of the happy decline in fact accelerate will have to see you in the front row as a government, to govern and not to postpone. I hope, and I hope, that in those days, in those weeks, in those difficult months that we will have before us, there will not be in your heart and in your thoughts the idea of having committed, not simply a political error, but of having hurt your children, because this would not forgive you, first of all them. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u218	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u219	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u220	PIROVANO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to go back to the whole measure of course, since we have already discussed it extensively here in the House just before the summer recess, but I would like to take up a few points which have been amended by the House, with some clarification. First of all, I would like to remind you once again that this is a thousand-pronge, a thousand-pronge of urgency, which has had to compensate for the shortcomings of the past Government and the past parliamentary majority, because there are no urgent rules that were necessary to reach the end of this year. So, that's the first reason. I remember that it is a thousand-pronged: it is not a budget law, we are not voting for trust and we are not talking about our entire electoral programme, but we are talking about a precise measure. We are talking, first of all, about the issue of the earthquake, which is a matter that is very important to us and which we have fought so hard for. Important measures have been taken for the earthquake, which have been confirmed by the House. The Chamber has also made a significant addition, i.e. an additional 5 million in 2019 for interventions in favour of the productive recovery of businesses, tourism, public establishments, commerce and crafts. But, as the Senator Misses rightly said in the 1st Commission, it is necessary to do the facts for the earthquake, not the extensions. But this is a thousandfold and, therefore, the facts will come when we find the funds that you have not put in your budget law to help the earthquake victims. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Senator Biti, again in the 1st Commission, made a romantic comparison between what were our electoral promises to the earthquake victims and what is a love story. This comparison remained with me because, in fact, it is about love: it is about love for the citizens who have had great dramas and great hardships. Senator Biti argued that often, taken from the enthusiasm of the moment, promises are made that then, once the enthusiasm has vanished, they are ignored. Well, I don't know how love stories live the Senators of the Democratic Party, but for us, love is a serious thing. Mr Marcucci (PD). Politics don't! PIROVANO (L-SP-PSd'Az). We have a great love for the earthquake victims and we will do anything in our power to help these people. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] If it were for you, Grandma Peppina and a lot of other families, who had to build extemporaneous houses to survive - let's call them that - would still be in the middle of a road. They'd be in the middle of a road! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Because there are hero mayors who have had to rely only on the charity and help of the whole country, because the government has not arrived a euro and a little house has not arrived, neither for families nor for farmers. Talk to these mayors, speak to us personally! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] Sometimes I wonder if you have suffered a collective amnesia, when it comes to earthquakes; maybe you have been infected by your secretary Martina, who gave us ignoble because we would cut ten billion euros for the disabled and, when Minister Fontana reminded him that you did the cuts, he deleted the post. But people's memory cannot be erased! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] Let's move on to another important measure, the one for bank scams. You have always argued that nothing could be done and you have even voted on the bail in, which provides that, for banks in bankruptcy or liquidation, you can draw directly from the current accounts of customers. With this measure, thanks to an amendment approved to the House, we release the fund available of 25 million immediately, to ensure that those who have been certified as fraud by the banks can immediately be reimbursed. This is something you could do and you didn't do. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from the PD Group]] We come to the ban on the outskirts, which we have discussed extensively in the Commission. There is a very small problem: Article 13 has not been touched on by the House, so it should not be debated either. But there is one very specific reason why you are talking about it now: you forgot to do so before the summer break, when you voted on the amendment. So you arrived in September asking to discuss something that in theory you shouldn't even discuss, because the article wasn't modified by the House. However, the outskirts ban is serious, so we can talk about it, because it is right to give concrete answers to the mayors: you have violated the Constitution - and the Constitutional Court has certified it - by putting in the outskirts ban the funds you could not put. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from the PD Group]] This was made possible thanks to an appeal of the Veneto Region, because the purpose of these funds had to be decided through the Regions, you could not decide which municipalities and what projects to give this money. But it is true that the municipalities need liquidity. You accused us in the Commission of ripping off the municipalities and even doing an armed robbery against the municipal administrations: I remind you that, from 2011 to today, there have been 9 billion cuts in the coffers of the municipalities. [[Comments from the PD Group]] COMINANCES (PD). What are you talking about? PIROVANO (L-SP-PSd'Az). From 2011 to today there have been 9 billion cuts. And then we calculate also the 5 billion blocked in the coffers of the Municipalities of all Italy. This is important because, thanks to the extension, we have saved the peripherial ban by extending it to 2020 and in the meantime there will be other funds; otherwise, no municipality, from the 25th to the 120th place, would have taken a euro. We have unlocked these funds, which will cover the administrative surpluses. This is important, because there is another judgment of the Constitutional Court that ruled that the government could not block the administrative surpluses - I am of course speaking of all PD-led governments - because the money was already in the availability of the municipalities. So you've been blocking municipal funds for years, and now you're begging him for a gift with state funds. But the municipalities of state funds don't give a damn; they want to keep their money and use it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from the PD Group]] You gave 18 million to the Municipality of Bergamo of PD, but in cash it has 60 million, which it has not been able to spend in these years. If you really had this at heart, at the first sentence of the Constitutional Court of 2017 you would have acted to reopen the financial spaces of the Municipalities, which we will do for all the 8,000 Italian Municipalities, which must be managed in the same way. There are no important Municipalities and the least important Municipalities, because every citizen, even that of a small country, has the right to be considered as that of a big city. We will now restore justice to the Commons, which you have not done all these years. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from the PD Group]] MALPEZZI (PD). Give him the money! PIROVANO (L-SP-PSd'Az). And in the meantime, the executive projects, which will present a real timetable, will be financed; this is being dealt with by the ANCI and the Presidency of the Council. [[Comments of Senator Malpezzi]] ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Relax! We listened to Renzi! PIROVANO (L-SP-PSd'Az). We have made another important measure, which is the extension of the associated managements for the small municipalities, which was another request of the ANCI, with the Government's commitment to establish within sixty days a technical table with the Municipalities, Provinces and Metropolitan Cities to settle other big mess that you have made. Because the cuts you have made to the Provinces, since you have become champions of the Municipalities, have also affected the quality of life of the citizens of the Municipalities, because the Provinces have always collaborated with the Municipalities. I am very proud of this measure and, I repeat, this is not the time when we can resolve everything. We are men and women who, we love our land and our people, but we are not superheroes and we cannot solve in a few months all the damage you have done. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] I therefore vote in favour, on behalf of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u221	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u222	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u223	SACCONE (FI-BP). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at last we have arrived here in the Senate once again with the vicious thousand-pronged decree-law, but this time under the aegis of the Government of Change. This morning, among the empty benches of the Government, there was also the Undersecretary Crimes, I would then use his words when he made the explanation of vote on the occasion of the decree-law of the Government Gentiloni Silveri. He called that milleproroghe the emblem of the inefficiency and ineffectiveness of the Silver Gentilon Government. Today we subscribe, word after word. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Too bad that, dear colleagues, you have removed the mask of the opposition and today you are wearing the mask of the Government and, on the occasion of the decree-law thousandprorogues, you do it in perfect continuity with the previous Governments; you do it in perfect continuity with the Government of the Democratic Party. We have to be very clear about that. By now you have accustomed us to a narration: whenever you are obliged to assume responsibilities, you tell us that the fault is of the previous governments, that the fault is of the bureaucrats, that they have hindered you and that they have prevented you from taking those measures. Can I tell you frankly? No one believes this excuse anymore; no one believes it anymore. For three years in Rome, every morning we have the invisible mayor who tells us that he cannot improve the conditions of Capital because and because of the person who preceded it, not three days ago, but three years ago. Madam President, I do not want to comment on all aspects of the multi-pronged measure - Mr Pagano did it well - but allow me to comment on the Provinces. In the last parliamentary term we all fought the reform adopted by the previous government, especially because it did not give universal suffrage to voters. We hoped that the Multi-pronged Decree-Law would finally be reinstated; but you, in perfect continuity with the Democratic Party, will renew and extend the reform of the exponent of the Democratic Party, Mr Delrio. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I would like to raise a few points for reflection on the decree-law and, in particular, on the aspect of the funds at the outskirts. We all know what many of our suburbs are in: state of abandonment, state of degradation. I do not know what will happen to the Sailings of Scampia; I do not know what will happen to the Zen in Palermo; I do not know what will happen to the Corviale, here in the Capital. Those were urban redevelopment projects, social inclusion projects, and they guaranteed security in those neighborhoods, colleagues of the League. Today everything is suspended and all interrupted; you tell us that everything will be overcome. I would advise you on one thing: this impasse could have been overcome very easily, because in these three months it would have been enough to convene the State-Regions Conference [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] and find agreement there and remove the vulnus denounced by the Constitutional Court. You didn't. In these three months you have made many direct Facebook and many selfies, even from the tourist resorts. For the sake of Fatherland I do not want to comment on the selfie of Minister Toninelli forty-eight hours from the tragedy of Genoa, for the sake of Fatherland I do not do so. You have entered Parliament to change everything, but you have changed nothing and on the contrary you have changed deeply! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] So what's going on today? In recent days you have told us that with a decree-law of the invisible President of the Council you would have solved everything; well, the invisible President of the Council has also made the decree-law invisible: days have passed and still no trace of it, as you see no trace of the measure on Genoa and it has passed more than a month. This is the government's immobilism. On vaccinations I must say that I was deeply amazed by what I heard from a doctor, a researcher: I listened to the exponent of the Movimento 5 Stars. Forgive me: it was surreal to listen this morning to debate in this House whether the 55 false self-certifications were more or less numerous. That's ridiculous! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] One of those, for us, is an embarrassment and in this House this morning we were debating if 55 are few: but what are we saying? [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] I then tell my friends that I wish to quote the words of a young woman named Martha, who calls herself a survivor of leukemia. She asks all of us, especially those who govern the country, not to form a society that keeps out fragility, not to build a society that tends to exclude weak people. Today we should try to accept this appeal, this warning. There is an alarming picture, it is useless that we pretend; we have managed to put parents against parents, parents who denounce other parents; we have seen that there are many false self-certifications and I want to say with extreme clarity and perhaps with virulence, that there is a clear political responsibility of the state of things: all this is due to those who in recent years have legitimized thesis of no vaxes not proven by scientific elements; you have elevated them to political rank, you have given him political legitimacy! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Of course, then there is the tourist by chance who goes around the world, like Di Battista, who informs us that his son, however, vaccinates him, for God's sake, and there are those who even say that they want silence, that they no longer want to talk about this topic. You do well to take refuge behind the silence, because behind that silence there is all your incoherence. As I conclude, Mr President, we in this Parliament have now been accustomed to weapons of mass distraction by a movement that was the most skilled in building them. well, these are produced when you no longer know what to say, when unfortunately the moment of truth arrives. The budget law is a moment of truth, so, as you are aware that you have told a flood of lies and false promises, you are looking for the scapegoat: you have chosen in an unscrupulous way the highest office of the economic institutions of our country, Minister Tria, and you have pointed it out to the public. This is shameful because it undermines the credibility of our country and I have done so by the Vice President of the Council! He should have the courage not to hide in the press: if you think that Minister Tria is not adequate, present a motion of no confidence! We challenge you: have the courage to present the motion of no confidence. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We express all our solidarity and ask Minister Tria to keep his back straight to ensure public finances, especially to ensure future generations. Madam President, I should like to end, above all, by appealing to the friends of the League. You can freely decide, of course, to do what you think is appropriate; we ask you to stop doing the rescue anchor of this Government, which clearly shows all its contradictions, especially in economic terms. We ask you to pull the plug on this government before it's too late. We are convinced that we are voting against this'millepasticci' measure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]] (16.50 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u224	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u225	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u226	MAIORIN (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss the examination and conversion into law of the thousand-pronged decree. I remember, especially in favour of the opposition, which we have been discussing since this morning, in full respect of the prerogatives of this Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is an instrument that, as is known, is not much loved by the Movimento 5 Stars, because it belongs little to our way of understanding politics. Too often, in fact, this instrument has been used, in the past, to insert nighttime a bit of everything, all kinds of nefariousness, written measurements inserted in this large cauldron. Mr President, before we proceed, let me say a word of thanks to Senator Renzi, who has shown a sudden interest in this decree-law by showing himself in this Chamber, when he has failed during the whole debate. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] COLLINA (PD). ==References====External links== MAIORIN (M5S). I would have liked to have been able to address this thank you personally, but it has disappeared again. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u227	Put an end to the explanation of vote. Senator, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u228	MAIORIN (M5S). He shows up in the Chamber to delight us with his meetings. No longer being able to keep them in the square without risking their skin, he reserves them for us. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] [[Protests from the PD Group]] MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, you have said something very serious. FADELI (PD). You need to get her back! MAIORIN (M5S). Mr President, this majority in relation to this measure has made a clear choice: it has decided to work on this text thinking solely and exclusively of the good of Italy. FADELI (PD). Mr President, you must take it back now, as we have always done!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u229	Senator, I invite each time to debate, as it is logical that it is in an explanation of vote, where everyone must necessarily express their opinion. That's legitimate. What I never like, wherever it comes from, is that people get offended. Ideas can be countered without necessarily referring to people or facts that can be shared or not. MALPEZZI (PD). It's a threat. MAIORIN (M5S). President, I apologize if anyone has been offended. [[Protests from the PD Group]] Mine was an ironic thank-you. FADELI (PD). No. It's intimidation. [[Comments of Senator Malpezzi]] Senator, you explained. Please be composed and let it finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u230	This majority made a precise choice about this measure: it decided to work on the text thinking only and exclusively for the good of the citizens and, for this reason, we wanted a decree dry and without frills, with inside only the necessary measures and with immediate effects on the everyday life of the Italians. [[Comments of Senator Bellanova]] It is a new modus operandi aimed at change, which however has not spared the document, as we see, exploitations and approaches to prejudices and childish, even if in fact it goes to give the necessary and urgent response to the Italian citizens for the issues remained unresolved, often faultily, because of the politics that preferred to look on the other side. We could start with local authorities. None of them, as has already been said, remain outside this decree-law. We have thought of the Regions, opening additional financial spaces to give them greater flexibility on their territories; the Provinces, with the extension for 2018 of the experimental fund of rebalancing; the large-area entities, excluding them from the sanctioning regime for non-compliance with the balance of the budget; finally, the municipalities. Apart from all the chatter and innumerable readings we have heard in recent weeks and even just now in this House, we have unlocked EUR 1 billion for the municipalities in surplus budget [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] , in order to give them the opportunity to relaunch, already this year, investments in works and public services. I would like to add that the Association of Mayors has not at all stirred up for today's meeting with President Conte. MALPEZZI (PD). They're gone! MAIORIN (M5S). As President Decaro expressed his satisfaction at the meeting. [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u231	Everyone can express what they want. Please, shut up.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u232	MAIORIN (M5S). Above all, we have not abandoned any project related to the outskirts, as well as many in here continue to say. In fact, the first 24 classified projects will have the funding guaranteed immediately and all the others already advanced will have them with an ad hoc norm that will be inserted in the next useful measure, as the President of the Count Council has clearly pointed out, following its intercourse with the ANCI. So let us clear the field of all misunderstandings and so many fannies, even in this House just now. The decree-law does not throw at the nettles any project related to the suburbs. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is only possible to provide for further monitoring for those projects which are not yet in progress. You know how it is: we have been coming from decades of shameful waste and it is time to devote every euro to certified and guaranteed investments, since it is the money of the citizens. [[Comments from the PD Group]] COMINANCES (PD). A ban has been made! MAIORIN (M5S). There is, then, the whole package of earthquake areas. In addition to the many deadlines already postponed by the decree-law earthquake (a measure of which we are particularly proud), it has been decided to add others, in order to give breath to all citizens and administrations affected by the earthquake, both at the bureaucratic and economic level: from the terms of suspension of the payment of invoices for energy and water services for the citizens of Marche, Umbria, Abruzzo and Lazio, to the percentage of participation in the reduction of the municipal solidarity fund for the municipalities within the area of the crater of the earthquake of Emilia Romagna of 2012 and that of the Eagle of 2009. Finally, thanks to the 5 Star Movement, the Government will undertake to extend the application of the extensions of the deadline for the payment of invoices also to the earthquake-stricken municipalities of the island of Ischia, completely forgotten by national politics in the months following the violent seismic event of August 2017. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But let's move on. With this decree-law we also avoid that about 18 million families and 3.5 million between small businesses and businesses are thrown immediately, without adequate information, into free tariff plans relating to electricity and gas bills. For the Movimento 5 Stars, it is essential that consumers have a more transparent tariff framework. And, again, we postpone for several months the entry into force of the revisitable reform Orlando, regarding justice; a law that we have not by whim branded as a "gag rule," which must be rewritten completely with a participation path, also it, involving the district prosecutors, because just as the role of the prosecutor in our judicial system has been formulated has been emptied and irreversible devastates every investigative activity, putting in fact a gag - precisely - to the environmental interceptions. And finally, we come to the vaccines, on which you made, really, so much noise for nothing. MALPEZZI (PD). Tell that to the parents of immunodepressed children. MAIORIN (M5S). This measure simply extends what was already in place, i.e. the possibility for parents to present self-certification until March 10, 2019 and we cannot see why self-certification, being harmless until recently, suddenly became a public danger. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I want to reassure you, I want to reassure Italian families and doctors, since nothing changes at all. And don't worry about the principals who won't have to take responsibility for carrying out self-certification checks. Our objective is in fact to overcome the Lorenzin decree and we will do so with a draft parliamentary law, not with a decree-law imposed from above as it was done in the last legislature. We will do so in accordance with the procedure laid down in our Constitution. COMINANCES (PD). Which also provides for decrees-laws. MAIORIN (M5S). For those who talk about false certifications, the NAS carried out over 1,500 controls and in 99.9 percent of cases the certifications turned out to be authentic, so this is also a problem that does not exist. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Protests from the PD Group]] Those who make controversy should really put a hand on the conscience and clarify once and for all if it really makes controversy for the good of the Italians or for the interests of shop. [[Comments of Senators Bellanova and Malpezzi. Protests from the PD Group]] Now, of this decree-law you can say everything and its opposite. We know that we have worked to the best and in the exclusive interest of the citizens to give a prompt response to the Italians who were waiting for these answers. That is why, on behalf of my fellow Senators of the Movimento 5 Stars, I declare our vote in favour. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u233	I'm asking to talk. AIROLA (M5S). First we vote, then they'll show off. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I have listened to what my colleague has said and I believe that what my colleague has said is a form of threat to a member of the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] You say you censored him, that's not enough. I believe that measures must be taken. In fact, on the one hand, the lynching outside this House is incited. But do we realize the seriousness of the statements being made? [[Applause from the PD Group. Ironic comments from the M5S Group]] This is serious verbal violence. Keep talking like that! I therefore call for measures to be taken, and I ask that they be prevented from speaking in a direct threatening tone towards all Members of Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u234	President Marcucci, I have already taken Senator Maiorino earlier, as you - if you were careful - will have had the opportunity to observe, and the Senator has apologized for this. [[Protests from the PD Group]] That's not true! MALPEZZI (PD). You have to apologize to her now! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Protests from the PD Group.]] Mr Verducci (PD). Shame! MALPEZZI (PD). Shame on you, shame on you! You have to be ashamed!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u235	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u236	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u237	SICLARI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been a month since 20 August, the day of the tragedy in the Raganello Gorges in Calabria and I therefore ask the House to remember the victims. [[Applause from Senator Bonfrisco]] and to show closeness to families and territory, which has been involved in such a serious tragedy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u238	I call on the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The President and the Assembly stand and observe a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u239	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-38.ana.u240	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 25 September, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.07 p.m.
