ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 510.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u5	Mr President, representatives of the Government, senators and fellow senators, I am speaking last in general debate after listening to colleagues from all political forces. Everyone agrees on the need for a rule that sanctions the vote of political-mafia exchange; everyone also stressed the need for the fight against the mafia to be a choral event and should hopefully take place without divisions or medals on the chest. However, in this House there have been differences of opinion on how to write the standard we are dealing with. We of the Movimento 5 Stars believe that this formulation goes in the right direction and that today is a beautiful day for all those who have at heart the contrast to the mafias. Today we take another decisive step in the path started thirty-six years ago with the so-called Rognoni-La Torre law that introduced article 416- bis into the penal code. The mafias have changed over the decades and, unfortunately, have extended their harmful influence on much of the national territory and, more and more, have tried, try and try to condition the democratic path of our Republic, trying to condition the free expression of the citizens' vote. The Mafia, without the fundamental help of unfaithful politicians, unscrupulous professionals, without the help of the so-called white collars, could never have reached the present economic-military power and would not have been able to exercise the pervicacious control of the territories that it has actually achieved in some parts of the country. The mafioso with the coppola belongs to a holographic representation of the phenomenon, certainly not to the present and past factual reality: history says it, recent and distant investigations say, the many striking cases that have characterized our Republic and, even before, the Kingdom of Italy. The Mafia - and we come to our day - would never have been able to move huge masses of money around the world, to reinvest them in apparently clean and lawful activities, to set up companies in tax havens, to evade the controls of the competent authorities, without the decisive contribution of unscrupulous and unethical professionals, of forerunners, politicians accomplices and infidels. She couldn't have done it on her own. It could never have happened that villains built an economic empire (as attorney Roberto Scarpinato said several times), with ramifications practically all over the world. Without the fundamental help of the subjects just mentioned, sooner or later the Mafia, all the mafias, like all things in life, would have a beginning, a duration and an end, as John Falcone said. Instead, the mafias are alive and well, they are among us, and therefore Parliament must find ever more effective rules to increase the contrast, never sacrificing the constitutional guarantees. I would like to stress that in this action of contrast our country is at the forefront of the world. No one like us has equipped himself with effective instruments of investigation, repression, aggression of the illicitly accumulated capital. We are an example in the world, in this. Suffice it to say that a few days ago in Vienna, at the conference on the United Nations Convention against Organised Crime, a resolution was adopted which makes it easier and more operational the collaboration between countries in the fight against mafias, a convention that was signed in Palermo in 2000 and was born from one of Giovanni Falcone's many beautiful and brilliant ideas. Even in the field of the political-mafia exchange vote, we must once again be at the forefront, we must be an example for other countries, adopting effective, clear, easily applicable and interpretable rules and penalties that are, at the same time, dissuasive and grievous, waiting for the extreme seriousness of the crime that has as a consequence the upheaval of political representation in the elective institutions. As colleagues said yesterday, Article 416-b was introduced ten years after the Rognoni-La Torre Act, by Article 11-b of Decree-Law No 306 of 1992 (the so-called Scotti-Martelli Decree), and it was precisely intended to address the problem of collusions and contiguity between representatives of the elected bodies and criminal associations of the mafia. This decree-law also incorporated Article 416-a, adding - to better describe and type Mafia partnerships - the specification of organisations that have the purpose of preventing or hindering the free exercise of the vote or of obtaining votes to themselves or to others during electoral consultations. In its original wording, Article 416-b provided that the penalty laid down in the first paragraph of Article 416-a would also apply to those who obtained the promise of votes from the Mafia in exchange for the payment of money. The one who promised the votes responded, instead, to the crime referred to in Article 416-a, in his capacity as associate of the Mafia, as well as to the offence of electoral coercion referred to in Article 97 of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 361 of 1957, in the event that he had made concrete use of the intimidation force, proper to the Mafia, in order to obtain votes. The Scotti-Martelli decree had, among other things, tightened the sanctions for the crime of electoral corruption and the crime of electoral coercion. This rule was introduced at a terrible time for our Republic, when the mob attack at the heart of the State probably reached its peak. Then, as often happens, there was a need to correct the law in order to make it more effective. However, this review, carried out by Law No 62 of 2014, did not have the effects that they wanted to achieve - as some had already foreseen in the Movimento 5 Stars - but, indeed, created a multiplicity of jurisprudential interpretations. The first was immediately after the entry into force of the law with the so-called Antinoro judgment, by which the Court of Cassation, in the light of the norm in the new formulation, stated that, after the reform of article 416-b of the penal code, the crime in question requires, for its consumption, that the members of the Mafia association undertake to carry out the procurement of votes by means of the exercise of acts of intimidation or prevarication by the Mafia party contracting the unlawful electoral pact, in accordance with the behavioral modalities typical of the members of such criminal associations. Therefore, according to this pronunciation, even if there were a pact between the mobster and the politician, this would not integrate a crime if the methods of obtaining the votes were not resulting from intimidation. Then there were many other sentences of content partially different from each other and from the latter; some have specified that with the reform of 2014 there had been no abolition of crimes, because even in the previous formulation it was necessary to demonstrate the recourse to the typical mafia modalities of oppression and intimidation. Other statements further stated that for the purpose of the trial of the commission of the crime it must be considered sufficient that the person who undertakes to obtain the votes in favour of the candidate is a person who exercises a widespread conditioning based on arrogance and overpower and whose voting indications are perceived outside as coming from a mafia association, therefore neither the implementation nor the explicit planning of a campaign implemented through intimidation. Other judgments, on the other hand, limit the need for the demonstration of intimidation methods only if they come from persons belonging to the Mafia associations and acting in the interest of the latter; others have also specified that from an evidentiary point of view it does not point out the specific demonstration of the programming of the concrete acts of intimidation carried out by the Mafia organisation and prosthesis to limit the freedom of the right to vote, but it is essential to assess the existence of the same and the activities it carries out on the territory according to the characteristics of Article 416-a of the Criminal Code. Turning to the conclusion, Mr President, this uncertainty of interpretation of the rule shows that there is a real danger that criminally significant conduct has become legally not punishable or difficult to prosecute since 2014; these changes have therefore made the detection of the crime less clear, giving our opinion to possible and dangerous underestimations of the phenomenon and possible derubrications of the hypothesis of crime, thereby frustrating the deterrent and sanctioning character that every rule must have, especially this, dealing with such a serious matter as regards the free expression of the vote and therefore the exercise of democracy and the very existence of the State. This is precisely what the draft law is about, namely greater clarity and a more effective fight against the crime of political-mafia exchange. With respect to the current wording it further extends the object of the counter-performance of those who obtain the promise of votes, contemplating not only the money and any other utility, but also the willingness to satisfy the interests or needs of the criminal association, and extends the punishableness also to cases where the incriminated conduct has been carried out through the use of intermediaries. I'd like to say the last thing about that. Yesterday, Senator Caliendo said that this would lead to a sentence of twenty-two and a half years, which would therefore be disproportionate because it was superior to that of murder. But I ask myself and ask you whether there is a more serious crime than killing democracy and republican institutions, bringing people voted by the Mafia into this House. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u6	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u7	Mr President, I rise to explain amendment 1.1, precisely to try to get into a problem, which I understand is difficult to understand, being very technical [[Brusio]] If there is therefore a moment of attention, I would like to try to...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u8	Colleagues, please, I ask you, too, to be careful and to take your place. Senator Gasparri, thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u9	Grasso (Misto-Leu). In the previous parliamentary term, an amendment to the legislation in question was adopted, which introduced the diction according to which those who accept the promise must do so in the manner referred to in the third paragraph of Article 416-a. The reference to these modalities meant that the jurisprudence interpreted that, at the time of the promise, the presence of the constituent elements of intimidation and violence, as connotations of the promise, was necessary. Therefore, Amendment 1.1, tabled by the Senators of Liberi and Equal, aims to eliminate this prediction, precisely in order to avoid this jurisprudential interpretation, which, from a rigorous point of view, has led some sentences to believe that it was necessary to prove that every vote obtained by the Mafia association was the result of intimidation and violence. So I reported the old text, the previous one, in such a way that, by removing the reference to the modalities, there was instead the reference to the "promise of votes" provided for in the third paragraph of the same Article 416-a in exchange for the promise or the provision of money or any other utility, (...)... This reference to the third paragraph of Article 416 bis shall no longer be made in relation to the procedure laid down in Article 416-a, but to the promise of votes laid down in that Article. When this crime was introduced in 1992, an integration of the aims typical of the Mafia association was also carried out, i.e. it added, among the aims, the typical aim of the Mafia association to prevent or hinder the free exercise of the vote or to procure for itself or others the vote. Therefore, linking the vow to the achievement of this typical goal of the association, the hypothesis of an exchange vote is realized, referring not so much to the subjectivity of the Mafia contractor, but to the existence of a mafia organization that has that end and with the possibility of making the vow referable to the mafia clan as a whole and, as such, already endowed with a value of mafia intimidation. Therefore, in this way of implementation, there is no need, once the agreement has been reached and concluded, to examine the way in which the vote is implemented, i.e. the possible intimidation or violence exercised in order to obtain the votes, because in this crime what is punished is the agreement itself. So this is an anticipation of the threshold of protection, justified by the serious danger of public order disturbance and the pollution of the democratic system, determined precisely by the relations between the mafia and politics. So this is the end of this article, which punishes the exchange vote. The amendment extends the criminality to those who work to get the promise of votes, which corresponds to the intermediary present in the proposal of the rapporteur, Senator Giarrusso, and of the Government. In this case, there is, of course, a clear agreement on the referability of the agreement to the Mafia association. In my opinion, the reference to the subjective membership of a mobster weakens the scope of the rule, because the mobster does not walk with a sign in which it is written that he has been sentenced, with final judgment, pursuant to Article 416-bis of the penal code. The meeting of a candidate with this subject could perhaps have brought about the case of the exchange vote. I repeat, therefore, that the provision of this element as necessary for the case of the exchange vote to be carried out greatly diminishes the scope of application of the rule. [[Applause from Senators De Petris and Errani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u10	Mr President, I would briefly like to explain Amendment No 1,102, which seeks to limit or limit the doubts and criticisms already raised by some members of various parliamentary groups. I refer to the questions of how to ascertain membership of a mob association and - another contiguous aspect - the notoriety of these circumstances in fact on the part of the subject favored by the promises of vote. The amendment lays down an objective criterion, i.e. the determination by a conviction, even if not final, in accordance with Article 416-a of the Criminal Code. In my view, this is an objective criterion: in fact, there is a judgment, even not definitive, that takes place after an contradictory in the course of which there was however a finding, albeit without the characteristic of the definitiveity. This is a fact that cannot be eliminated. At the same time, the fact that there has been a trial followed by a condemnation is obviously a fact of notoriety which, at least in the local area, cannot be underestimated. I realise that this proposal may give rise to doubts about the risk of an excessive extension of the scope of the rule that we are about to adopt. However, I believe that these doubts can be overcome, especially since in the so-called security decree (we will see it when we enter into the substance of the measure), in the matter of the management of real estate seized from the mafias and of activities that the National Agency for the administration and the destination of the assets seized and confiscated from organized crime can make, a judgment even not final of condemnation under Article 416- bis of the penal code is an element of fact evaluative, even for purposes other than those that occupy us today. In any case, I believe that the proposal can also be accepted from a constitutional point of view and, in my humblest view, it would be able to overcome the perplexities that this rule would then face, in the concrete field, in the courtrooms. Finally, I should like to make a brief comment. I, like other senators, have tabled an amendment to delete paragraph 3 of Article 416-b of the Criminal Code, which provides for an increase in the sentence of half in the case of election. I do not hide the doubts about an increase in the penalty, which is so considerable, that it is characterized as a circumstance with special effect (the workers know what I am referring to). I do not have time to explain in a clearer way why this increase in punishment, which is so important on a basic penalty which is already quite rightly substantial, would depend on a future event following the conduct of crime. Moreover, it would no longer depend on the availability of the defendant's conduct alone, but on the events of a local or national election. This element, which is foreign to conduct and subsequent, could lead to a criminal responsibility which could lead to the risk - someone has already told me - of a potential sentence of up to twenty-two years and more of imprisonment. All this leaves me very perplexed. That is why I have proposed this deleterious amendment, which follows amendment 1,105, which provides that, in the alternative, where that afflictive rule and the aggravating circumstance are to remain in the text of the rule, at least one should limit oneself to a general increase in the penalty, instead of an increase of half the penalty. This would lead, in my view, to a greater reasonableness this circumstance, albeit future and eventual; the amount of the increase of penalty would thus reach up to a third compared to the basic penalty granted under the first paragraph. I realize that there has not been enough time, not even from those who are speaking, for a confrontation with the majority and with the government and for a neutral analysis of these amendments. However, I call for their assessment and, consequently, I would like a favourable opinion. [[Applause from Senators Martelli and Rampi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u11	Mr President, I have three amendments to make. With regard to the first, Amendment No 1,100, I would like to point out in advance that awareness of membership of the associations referred to in Article 416-a has been missed in the press: this is the same text that we have discussed and voted in the Commission. I might not even talk about this amendment, because better than me, President Grasso and Senator Buccarella have explained what his need is. You assume a responsibility, from the point of view of interpretation, that will legitimize people not yet established as belonging to the mob association. Those of you who live in the countries of the South, where I was born and grew up in my youth, know very well that there are associations that have not yet been judged and there are members of mob associations that have not yet been condemned. So? Is the person who pollutes the electoral system responsible for the use of the procedures referred to in the third paragraph of Article 416-a? You say no. What's the reason? I don't get it. My amendment provides that, if you act in accordance with the procedure referred to in the third paragraph of Article 416-a, you commit the crime; then it adds that, if you do what Senator Giarrusso says, you commit the same crime. Then you want to tell me why you want to rule that out? Maybe you don't know the truth. Moreover, this solves the problem of intermediaries, which, on the other hand, eliminated with that sentence, are permanently inserted into the system of the norm. Finally, the third paragraph of Article 416-a provides that the person who proposes to obstruct or prevent the free exercise of the right to vote shall be polluted by the democratic system. And you want to compare this, which is an even subversive activity, to that of the one who, by wronging, accepts, but for this very reason must be punished with the same penalty as what is even subversive? Sounds like minimal rules to me. A first-year student in law would immediately be able to say that perhaps he could change it in another way, but he would certainly find a way to give clear and precise answers, because we are here for this. If we are to produce rules that will create further interpretative problems, I do not think we should discuss them. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] (0,03 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u12	Mr President, I rise very quickly to explain the amendments and to make a few remarks, in agreement with the speeches made by Senators Grasso, Buccarella and Caliendo. Our amendments are also aimed at clarifying and avoiding problems of interpretation to those who will have to apply this measure. Objectively, with the text that has been proposed to the House, the interpretative problems exist, for the reasons that have already been explained and that I do not intend to repeat, referring exclusively to those, which then constitute the content of our amendments. However, I think it is appropriate to highlight a detail relating to the third paragraph of Article 416-a of the Criminal Code, which provides for the imposition of an obligation. It has already been said, but I would like to clarify a misunderstanding: the sentence of twenty-two years may be congruent, but it is absolutely unreasonable compared to those who, on the other hand, would have obtained the vote. In essence, said in more current Italian, assign a sentence of twenty-two years to those who receive the vote and a sentence inferior to the mob that that vote promises and strives to make it arrive, maybe even being covered and in the shadows, I think it is absolutely unreasonable. That is why we have tabled a deleterious amendment. If necessary - and I think it is right to expect this to be the case - we can refer to Amendment No 1.11 at the first signature of Senator Grasso, which provides for an increase in punishment not determined in half, but the simple increase, which can go from one day to a third of the sentence imposed. However, I continue to express my concern. It is said that the charge applies only if those who have accepted the vows promise are elected. Let us reason on that third paragraph: if someone were not to be elected in the immediacy, but perhaps after a year - or could take over and, therefore, the election would have been there in fact - and had already been put to trial or judged with a sentence passed in court, he would have a lower penalty than the norm itself provides. It is true that, with that condemnation, it could not enter Parliament or any elected assembly, but objectively it seems to me that it poses significant application problems. That is why we have proposed the amendments. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u13	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u14	, f. f. Mr President, I naturally support Amendment 1,104 by the rapporteur. I am opposed to the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u15	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u16	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u19	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, with great regret I have to note that, due to a majority vote, all the positive aspects that could have been an opportunity to improve the rule resulting from a legislative reform of 2014 are unfortunately frustrated by a few words in Article 1 of the Commission's text, namely that the promise to obtain votes must necessarily come from those whose membership of the associations referred to in Article 416-a is known to the candidate. I do not forget that in 1991, as a consultant to the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission, I intervened for an investigation in Calabria, where the primary were shot by killing the aspiring candidates in order to impose those supported by the 'ndrangheta. This is to understand what can happen in certain regions at the time of the electoral consultations. Fortunately, we are not at that time and progress has been made, but the danger of the pollution of electoral consultations remains. I am thinking of the hypothesis of a Mafia exponent, protagonist of the judicial reports, a character at the top of the local mafia family, often arrested, who perhaps evades the trial by making himself fugitive before the sentence becomes irrevocable, to whom the candidate, through intermediaries - it is also foreseen the hypothesis of intermediaries - turns from the start of the electoral campaign to obtain votes. In this case, would we or would we not be in the presence of an exchange hypothesis, as provided for in Article 416 (b)? If, according to the strict interpretation, it is necessary to have - our Constitution provides this - a definitive sentence to be recognized as responsible for the crime referred to in 416-bis, that is to say of the Mafia association, there is no doubt that this requirement goes to complete the interpretation of the norm, so we would get to this absurd. Once again, I would like to make a final appeal to the representative of the Government and to the rapporteur - who is not here today, and who has been properly replaced by the President of the Commission, Justice - in relation to amendment 1.1. If necessary, I am prepared to withdraw it if the rapporteur or the government can do so and perhaps be able to solve what is still a real problem for me. The reform provides for a whole range of concepts that improve the text, except in this point. Therefore, the previous text could be rebuilt with further improvements without, however, reporting the exchange vote only to the agreement. I would also like to understand: in the case of the intermediary of the mobster who comes into contact with the aspiring candidate - who may in turn have an intermediary - should the intermediary bring the news that acts in the name and on behalf of a mobster condemned definitively? It seems to me that this, as suggested, is a joke. I therefore insist, once again, that the House be able to take note of this issue with conscience and to vote in favour of amendment 1.1, which I have proposed on behalf of Free and Equal. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u20	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1 tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.12 (correct text).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u23	CALIENDO (FI-BP). Mr President, while we agree with part of the amendment tabled by Mr Rossomando and Mr Cucca, we will abstain because we have a reduction in pain compared to the text proposed by the Commission. In fact, the amendment states the penalty - for the violation of Article 416 (bis) - originally provided for (from six to twelve years), that is, before we increased it from ten to fifteen years. For this error, which is probably also an error in consulting the texts, we shall abstain on this amendment, although for the remaining part repeat the considerations made by President Grasso that are convincing from the point of view of the interpretation of the rule. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u24	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.12 (correct text), tabled by Senators Rossomando and Cucca. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u25	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Liceo Scientifico (Liceo Scientifico) (Pasteur) in Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u26	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u29	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I rise to vote in favour of Amendment No 1,100 by the Brothers of Italy Group, because it seems to us that the wording proposed by Mr Caliendo solves in a convincing way the problems that have been raised by several parties in the general debate. With the formulation proposed by Senator Caliendo, with a disjunctive conjunction they are added to the hypothesis formulated in the bill, that is the notoriety of belonging to the association referred to in article 416, also the modalities referred to in the third paragraph of article 416-a. In this way, all possible cases are covered. In particular, I believe that the House should welcome amendment 1,100, because its wording avoids the risk of restricting the scope of the new rule and the risk that the extraneus to the association, which nevertheless makes use of the modalities referred to in the Mafia method, as well as those who accept the promise, may be excluded from punishableness, in the event that those who establish such activities are not members of the Mafia association. For these reasons, I believe that we should vote in favour of Amendment No 1,100, which does not detract from the text proposed by the majority, but rather adds something that we might regret not having added tomorrow. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u30	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,100, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,101, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,102 tabled by Senator Buccarella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.9, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators, identical to amendments 1.10, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators, 1.8, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators, and 1.103, tabled by Senator Buccarella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1,104 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.11 and 1,105 are foreclosed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u33	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, we are dealing with an important issue which affects the level of trust that citizens place in the institutions, namely the relationship between the mafia and politics. It is a report that has been denied for long years and that is still too often tried to minimize, while attacking newspapers for surveys that highlight opaque relationships with people related - for example - to the fish clan in Calabria or to the Di Silvio clan in Latina, as happened during the last election campaign. Article 416-b of the Criminal Code, which regulates the crime of political-mafia exchange, has evolved over time. What do you want to punish in a nutshell? The agreement between a politician and members of the Mafia, which is based on the do ut des: I bring you the votes and you, in return, will do some good things for me. To limit oneself to the exchange of money, as it was in the previous formulation, is not enough. For this reason, in the last legislature, it has been extremely useful to include the other utilities: the counter-performance of the politician can be realized, that is, not only in the donation of money, but also in the promise of public procurement, in the acquisition of supplies and in the concessions to enterprises with public participation that favor the criminal infiltration in the economy and in the public works or in the promise of places of work or behaviour omertosi in defense of a system that hinders the action of the police in the territory, as well as in the general satisfaction of the interests of the mob associations or of individual affiliates. Article 416-b, as amended by the draft law under consideration, at first signing Giarrusso, would introduce appreciable improvements compared to the current wording, further broadening the object of the counter-performance of those who obtain the promise of votes, contemplating not only money and any other utility, but also the willingness to meet the interests or needs of the criminal association. The draft law before us, again, extends the criminality also to cases where the conduct inflicted has been carried out through the use of intermediaries. Eliminates from the current norm that incision that - as we have clarified - through the modalities referred to in the third paragraph of article 416-a of the penal code, according to a rigorous jurisprudential interpretation, makes the reference to the method of mafia intimidation become an element to prove as precise connotation of the agreement. Finally, it redefines the edittal framework of the crime, providing for the penalty of imprisonment from ten to fifteen years, the same established by Article 416- bis for those who belong to a mob association. Let us consider that this increase in punishment is already something that justifies our opposition to the increase in punishment in the presence of the charge for which the candidate is elected. In fact, from the sentence initially foreseen - the imprisonment from four to ten years, then increased in 2017 from six to twelve years and now further increased from ten to fifteen years - we have moved to the prediction of a sentence that, in the case of election, according to the third paragraph of Article 416-a, goes even from fifteen to twenty-two years and a half. It seems to us an increase in punishment for this aggravating absolutely out of the system of aggravating, because it does not leave discretion to the judge even on the increase of penalty, establishing that the penalty has increased by half. There is usually discretion for aggravating the penalty (up to a third, from a third to half); in this case, however, the increase is fixed in half of the penalty. It is also crucial that the sentence for the crime in question should also result in the ancillary penalty of perpetual prohibition from public offices, as well as the possibility of mediation by persons who are neither the candidate nor the mobster. With great regret, I have to note that, for the sake of the majority, all these positive aspects are frustrated by the words of Article 1 of the text approved in the Commission, according to which the promise to obtain votes must necessarily come from subjects whose membership of the associations referred to in Article 416-a is known, which - as I have already said - leads to the interpretation that in order to achieve the vote of exchange it is necessary to prove the full awareness of the candidate or intermediaries to be dealing directly or in the name of or on behalf of a mafioso with a conviction passed in court under Article 416-bis of the penal code and thus obtain the promise of suffrage. As we have already said, the agreement can intervene with a Mafia exponent, who may have strayed from the final and irrevocable condemnation as a Mafia subject. This does not mean, however, that the environment and the intimidating force of the organization, which uses precisely this force to condition the citizens who vote, can be fully active and therefore determine the realization of this crime. Despite repeated suggestions, the amendments proposed in the Commission and in this House, as well as the request of important associations such as 'Restarting the future' or 'Freeing' and, last but not least, the experience that comes from those who, like myself, have been in the position of magistrate and prosecutor for years, despite all this, you have not wanted to correct an error that will have effects in the application. (at 10.28 a.m.) (Following Grasso). It would have been desirable if, in accepting Amendment No 1.1, at my first signature, for the configurability of the crime it would no longer be required that intimidating acts of violence were necessary for each vote, but that it would be sufficient for the indication of vote to be perceived outside as coming from the mob clan and, as such, already supported by the intimidating force of the associative bond. It is our duty to support the fight against organised crime in all its forms, to deepen developments, to adapt the legislative system to the rapid transformations of organisations, to provide the judiciary with every useful tool and personal police forces and means to do their best. It is our duty to fight the trade and business that enrich the mafias, to prevent all forms of illicit enrichment, recycling and forgiveness for those who commit crimes. Beware, however, that it is not enough to say that the mob sucks, as it was written on campaign posters, since then the people who did it were sentenced for external competition in Mafia association. We must demonstrate by our own actions and behaviour that we want to combat this serious phenomenon. And we would do it better if we had an anti-Mafia Commission in the middle of its duties. I am sorry that President Alberti Casellati has left, but I want this message to reach his knowledge as well: more than six months have passed since the beginning of the legislature and there has not yet been the first call of the Anti-Mafia Commission. I say this above all to my colleagues in the majority or to those who do not designate those who are to be part of it. In conclusion, the reform of Article 416-b of the Criminal Code on voting for political-mafia exchanges could have been an excellent opportunity to break once and for all the link that has often united and unites the world of politics with that of organised crime. It's gonna be another wasted opportunity. It's useless to increase your penis. It is useless to remove the reference to the mob method. It is useless to foresee the perpetual ban following a conviction if, with this change, the possibility of demonstrating first of all the guilt of those seeking electoral agreements with the Mafia is removed. And I repeat with great regret, but aware of the consequences of this bill, highlighted also in the general discussion and shared by most of the speeches that have been made to illustrate the amendments: finally balancing the positive and negative aspects, we believe that the new case of 416-b is worse than the current one. And then I prefer to rely on a jurisprudential interpretation that does not require, for the vote of exchange, proof of the agreement about an electoral campaign made of intimidation and violence to the electoral corps. For this announcement that Free and Equal will vote against the bill under consideration. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u36	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, Brothers of Italy shares the aims of this bill and has always been at the forefront of defending democracy against mob pollution. For this reason, in the Commission we have made efforts to improve the text that was before us, we have also obtained the approval of one of our amendments and we are pleased with that. We agree in particular with the clarification that the crime must also punish intermediaries. We agree - and we believe it is appropriate to specify it in the norm - that among the punishable behaviors must fall not only, as already is in the current text, the provision of money or any other utility but also - as will happen approving this rule - the willingness to satisfy the interests or the needs of the mob association. From this point of view, the promise, the commitment to it, is sufficient. We share this view as we share the increase in the penalties provided for in the third paragraph of the Rule in the vote. Our only concern is that the agreement of the political-mafia electoral exchange should intervene, by the candidate or his intermediary, with entities belonging to the Mafia associations; agreement and belonging, of course, that must be known to the candidate, because otherwise we would be in the other delittuous hypothesis of electoral corruption referred to in the decree of the President of the Republic n. 570 of 1960. However, to limit, in the new norm, to refer to the subjects belonging to the Mafia associations and to completely expunge from the new text the modalities referred to in paragraph 3 of article 416- bis risks - as I said before - to exclude from the audience of the punishable subjects the stranger to the Mafia association that concludes the agreement with the candidate or with its intermediary, that it avails itself of the mafia modalities but that it is not a member of the Mafia association. This risk could have been avoided by adopting amendment 1,100, at the first signature of Senator Caliendo, or amendment 1,101, at the first signature of Senator Cucca, because both, without removing anything from the norm as proposed by the majority, would have added a further case, including at this point, with a disjunctive conjunction, and therefore alternative - in this way both cases would be punishable - alongside the agreement by the candidate or his intermediary with those who belong to the Mafia association, also the agreement with those who are alien to the Mafia association, but make use of the mafia modalities. This would have avoided any possible misunderstanding, would have completed the norm and would certainly have made us more tranquil. We regret that the majority has closed down, did not want to listen to those who gave such a completely disinterested advice from several quarters, because in this way we would certainly have rendered a greater service to the country, to democracy, to the contrast of the mafia that is trying to infiltrate the institutions through agreements with corrupt politicians. Nevertheless, we will still vote in favour because, despite this defect, we believe that the rule, as it has come to our approval today, is nevertheless improving the current text. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u39	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, Mr Senator, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity that we have missed a good opportunity to amend Article 416-b of the Criminal Code accordingly. It is a pity because once again someone, particularly a political party, has decided to reject any dialogue and any serious confrontation in order to achieve a unanimous solution. It wasn't like that. The logic and arrogance of numbers have been used. The old criterion has been used, more worthy of the Marquis than in this House: I am me and you are no one. In the course of the general discussion, two currents, two factions, a legalist and a guarantor, were opposed - as has already been said in the course of this debate. Well, I share this view, but I am convinced that the pervicacy with which the rapporteur has rejected any criticism and observation is mainly dictated by a demagogic intent, as if to mean that some are considered to be the depositary and the sole holder of the fight against the mafia. Yesterday we heard the phrase: we are the followers of the thought of John Falcone. I believe that this statement even confirms the impudence, also because of what has been said subsequently by my colleagues, who very well conducted the fight against the Mafia with their activities, notoriously committed to the front line on that front. The rapporteur has pretended to ignore the widespread criticism that has come from numerous associations that daily are at the forefront in the fight against the mafia and from magistrates and legal practitioners who have harshly attacked - as has already been said - the measure that deals with us. This measure, far from improving the text under consideration - I do not agree with what Mr Balboni has just said - does not improve it at all; indeed - it has emerged in the course of the general discussion - it greatly worsens it, especially by extending the discretion of those who will be called upon to apply it, with the intuitable consequences in terms of legal certainty. By now, with this standard there are meshes so wide that many will be able to escape its application. Time does not allow me to repeat what has been said in many parts and I merely recall the interventions of Senators Grasso, Mirabelli and Rossomando, as well as of Senators Damiani, Stancanelli and Caliendo. Everyone, even in the ideological diversity and also in the different political position, has highlighted the enormous criticalities of the provision: the norm is worsened; it narrows the audience of the subjects to which it can be applied; it introduces interpretative uncertainties that will end up undermining, if not frustrating, its scope. Not to mention the paragraph, which was also mentioned this morning, which provides for an increase in the sentence in case of election up to half, clearly providing for situations in which failure to respect the principle of reasonableness, far from having deterrent effectiveness, would give rise to aberrant situations in which the mobster will be punished with a lower penalty, instead, to the one who, having accepted the promise of the vote, then is elected. Despite the obvious evidence of these criticalities of the measure, the rapporteur has stubbornly defended the indefensible, rejecting any constructive confrontation. In the Commission, in view of the fact that the rapporteur had in some way assured and expressed his willingness to make the necessary amendments to this text, I had represented the fact that ours was a gesture of confidence, given the sensitivity of the issues. And so we in the Democratic Party in the Commission voted in favour, with the hope that the necessary changes would then be made in this House. Well, trust had obviously been misplaced and it was, indeed, miserably betrayed, confirming the will not to change anything in a text that worsens - as I have said several times, and as it has emerged in this House - by narrowing the scope of Article 416-b of the penal code. Colleagues of the majority, also considering the numerous comments received from several parties - as I said earlier - and the associations that have raised with regard to the text, protesting lively and warning that it narrows its scope, you will soon be called to respond to this, when the criticalities arise in the judgment and in the concrete application of the norm. We totally disassociate ourselves from this choice made. We strongly stigmatize the fact that we try to use and exploit a subject of such delicacy for purely propagandistic and demagogic purposes. Therefore, the Democratic Party announces its vote against this measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u42	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group, I would like to express my satisfaction at the speed with which the procedure for this measure has been completed. This is a measure carried out in compliance with the Government's contract whereby the regulatory and administrative instruments aimed at combating organised crime must be strengthened, with particular reference to the conduct of political-mafia exchanges. Once again, we have been quick, quick, incisive, moving from words to deeds. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Even more, this commitment had been made to the Italians. I can't help but think about the concrete situations that the piercing force of the mob generates. I'm thinking of the fathers in line with the hat in their hands asking the boss to work for their children. I'm thinking about families destroyed by drug dealing. I am thinking of men and women forced to take pictures of the ballot to show obedience to the boss. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] We hate the mob when they want to sell drugs to our kids! We disgust the mob when subjected to its terror entire populations! We disgust the mafia when it takes control of economic activities by polluting business and administrative life in our country, reducing legal activities to their knees! But above all, the mob sucks when it penetrates the institutions, preventing or hindering the right to vote. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] There is no mafia without politics: the mafia defines itself as such as an organized criminal association with close ties with politics. In this House today I have the honour to recall a very important figure in the fight against the Mafia: Judge Rosario Livatino, who was killed 28 years ago. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups and Senator Parrini]] He wrote in his memoirs that reforming justice in a subjective or objective sense is the task not of a few magistrates, but of many, of the State, of collective subjects, of public opinion itself. Recovering the right as a unitary reference to collective coexistence cannot, in a modern democracy, be the task of a minority. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] We are a majority today and we are here to really change things. From a technical point of view, the standard overcomes a very significant problem of interpretation. It has already been said that it was very difficult for the case law to prove the mafia's methods; we have therefore decided, in line with the line of simplifying the work to those who really fight it in the front line, to modify the rule to the point of making sufficient membership of the mafia to provoke a very substantial criminal penalty. On this we have therefore worked, widening (and not restricting, as the oppositions say) the case both to those who have materially concluded the agreement with the one who knows to be belonging to the Mafia organization, both to the intermediaries who were previously not sanctioned. We have also increased the penalties significantly and expected an assault, using the well-known juspenalistic scheme of the crimes aggravated by the event, because those who conclude an agreement to be elected with the mafia and then actually elected must be sanctioned more. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] I am therefore surprised by the criticism of the opposition when it is said that the mobster is punished less than the politician who is elected by the votes of the mob: that is exactly what we want, because it is much more serious the conduct of the politician who, in order to be elected, agrees to come to terms with criminal associations. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] We can't afford elected mayors with the mob anymore. Never more parliamentarians, regional councillors, elected regional presidents with criminal associations! If there are elected in this House or outside it or in the institutions, mayors or any other institution of the State, a clear voice will come out of this House: you must resign! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] A few days before being brutally murdered, Rosario Livatino (almost looked like a prophecy) said: "When we die, no one will come and ask us how much we have been believers, but credible." Today, with this vote, each of us demonstrates how credible the institutions of this country can be. Therefore, on behalf of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group, we are voting in favour. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u45	CALIENDO (FI-BP). Mr President, we wanted this measure to come to this House, because it was necessary to make everyone understand that there was a will to fight the mob in words, but in fact we wanted to reduce the scope of the rule that we are approving. With the amendment we have just discussed, we have tried to restore to the norm its maximum scope, to strike the members of the Mafia association, that is, those who have been judged as belonging to the Mafia association, and to punish also the one who uses the means proper to the Mafia association referred to in the third paragraph of Article 416- bis obtaining the same result. I have never made general political statements. You will remember that in our country, when all the elected in Sicily - or in other regions, but in particular in Sicily - were of one party, it was said that the Mafia had made an intervention; well, I, I never said it, today that the Movimento 5 Stars has totaled all the votes in Sicily, because for me there is nothing if there is no proof, if there is no verification of what happened. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is also claimed that there is equality between those who accept the promise and those who participate in the Mafia association, which is the greatest of abjection. You see, I have the pride and the honour of being part of my Group, and that comes from a single fact: we have been recognized by all, by the anti-Mafia magistrates and lawyers, that the maximum of anti-Mafia legislation has been achieved with the last Berlusconi Government. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And each one of you knows it. Today we are here and we would have wanted to guarantee the maximum guarantee and protection against the mob organisations, but you said no. You said that you just have to make a commercial about the increase in punishment for the one who accepted the votes. Colleagues, you realize that this reduces the dress of the antimafia. Anti-Mafia is not only based on important facts, like when we voted on the general reform of Article 41-a and we had the satisfaction that on our proposal there was unanimity in the consents to the Senate and the House of Deputies, but also on the attention to small things - if you want - as when we removed the legal patronage of the accused - not the condemned, but the accused - to belong to the Mafia association, and with that money we guaranteed free support to women victims of sexual violence, regardless of the income received. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] These are evaluations that each of you can make. Colleagues, all you think about is increases in sentence and don't worry about the country's prison system. During the last Berlusconi government, we increased the number of posts held by 4,250. Do you know how many places in prison have been introduced from 2011 to today? Not even 700. Do you realize that? So in the last parliamentary term, we had to approve the prison-empty measures. You will realize that you do not need an increase in sentence, you need the certainty of punishment. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Those who err must go to prison and be punished, there is no need for small adjustments, sometimes of one rule and sometimes of another, which introduce threats of very high penalties, which are not in fact atoned, because there is a provision that emptys prisons and the need to guarantee conditions consistent with our Constitution. I'm gonna finish. Our vote will be against, because we have not yet understood the technical, legal reason, so we did not want to accept a proposal that would have maintained the text dismissed by the Commission and, at the same time, added the other hypothesis of crime. Colleagues, Mr Balboni has explained this, but he does not belong to my Group, which is the least. Mr President, I cannot understand one thing. The representative of the Government and the rapporteur should not justify the contrary opinion they express on the amendments. We must give the reasons, we cannot continue to discuss them because of the violence and the strength of the majority. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This means not making a rule and I can say it, because when I was in the government - as my colleagues will remember - I sometimes received reproaches from the members of the majority and my group because I was was wasting my time motivating. Colleagues, that's not how you do it: you have to motivate and give justifications, because otherwise with the strength of the majority they pass right things, but also the biggest craps. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u48	VONO (M5S). Mr President, senators and senators, members of the government, discussing the vote of political-mafia exchange, all we do - and it could not be otherwise - is talk about the worst evolution of the Mafia system, so it is beyond doubt that the politician who consciously accepts votes that are the result of conditioning or collusion of criminal circles is himself, in effect, a mobster. Mafias, in fact, have no philanthropic aspects. Every breath is spent in the direction of creating profit, to the detriment of anyone. Politics in general and we politicians, women and men in particular, must necessarily have a thought and act diametrically opposed to the Mafia philosophy, in order to create widespread well-being, pursuing not only the paths of legal legality, but also and above all those of a moral conscience that rejects compromises for the purpose of futile success and personal interest at all costs. The fight against organised crime must begin precisely from the cleansing of every criminal aspect from political life and from the institutions. We can no longer allow the proximity and electoral support of criminals to appear to be an endemic element of political activity. Renouncing the electoral support that comes from the distorted circles of the society means, for example, once elected, being able to realize with the moral diligence of the good father of the family efficient infrastructures, without subjecting to the conditions of contracts of contracts of fraud; to give quality public services, looking in the direction of the collective interest; to intervene in the most disparate situations with timeliness, without waiting for the emergencies in order to be able to justify the concession of works without any respect of the procedures; above all, to let our children work, without making us slaves of a system of submission and precarious. Unfortunately, if this is not the case in most of Italy, despite the fact that it is always and only by identifying the cause inefficiencies and delays of public administration, the motivation is easy to imagine and I let each of us imagine it, according to conscience. It is necessary to fight with all the forces and every lawful and available means the phenomenon of the vote of political-mafia exchange, which is configured as a depraved relationship, which arises from corruption and generates ruin for Italy as a whole and for every Italian, no one excluded, not even the same protagonists. For too long we have underestimated and, in some cases, we also thought we could take advantage of this phenomenon, already widely evident before, but then certified by the investigation Clean Hands, passing through Mafia Capitale and all the phenomena of 'ndrangheta and Camorra of Southern Italy, with obvious involvement of the whole peninsula, from North to South. It is obvious that this form of mafia infiltration, because this consists of the vote of exchange, cannot be fought by individual citizens, destined for a certain defeat, as antagonists of unscrupulous characters, who make use of the electoral support of criminal associations everywhere present. That is why it is important that the institutions are committed to combating the exchange vote, supporting the introduction of any legislative instrument that can lead to the identification and elimination of every despicable episode. The chronicles, now for years, are full of events that concern the relations between mafia and politics and the continuous attention of the legislator is such as to make us think of corruption not as an accidental element, but as a structural element of the mafia expansion. It is time to understand that the Mafia no longer acts with violence, but operates through corruption. And this method, unlike violence, provides that the magistrate, paradoxically, must identify the weakness of the mobster, his subjection to politics; or, if we look on the side of the political candidate, he must prove the intimidation by the mobster. For this reason, to date, Article 416-b has often become almost impossible to apply. Corruption should be included as an identifying element of the Mafia method, just like with the anti-mafia code, because corruption is the real glue between politics and mafias. Article 416-b, while providing for the penalty of imprisonment for anyone who accepts the promise to obtain votes in exchange for the payment or promise of money or other utility, appears almost as the result of a compromise between repressive requirements and warranty requirements, with enormous difficulty for investigators to demonstrate that the candidate politicians know that the promised votes are conditioned by the intimidation method. It is a diabolical test, which requires a clear sharing of politicians in mafia activity. It is clear that today the mafias are not only interested in money, but above all they are concerned with the constant political commitment over time, almost at the level of affiliation. The amendment to Article 416-b broadens the scope of the provision or promise of money or any other utility to the willingness to meet the interests or needs of the Mafia association. Therefore, the possibility of the unlawful design not being carried out is part of the political-mafia electoral exchange (and therefore the punishment is triggered) but the willingness to do so and to agree is evident. It also eliminates the need, to which I referred earlier, for the demonstration of Mafia intimidation, sanctioning the achievement of the promise of suffrage by those whose membership of the Mafia associations must be known to those who conclude the electoral agreement. This removes the stumbling block of the system whereby some political characters, perhaps fully involved in the exchange of votes and electoral promises, have been acquitted by maintaining their elective office and even being able to present their candidacy in other electoral rounds. It won't be like this anymore. The new provisions also provide for a stricter penalty for those who commit this crime, with the equalization of members of a mob association and the increase of the sentence from ten to sixteen years. Interesting is the third paragraph of the new wording of Article 416-b, which introduces an aggravating circumstance, with an increased penalty of half, if those who have accepted the promise of votes are elected. In the fourth paragraph there is also, in preventive function, the perpetual ban from public offices for these subjects, which in any case have manifested an attraction towards the environments to be opposed and in any case the inability to identify the social danger of such environments. On behalf of the Movimento 5 Stars, which has made political action an instrument to fight evil and corruption, I strongly express the favourable vote on this measure, which goes in the direction of the fight against corruption, which, especially during the electoral period, is the main weapon of the mafia, characterized by silence, the involvement of the recipient of the mafia action, complicity and therefore by the creation of an environment suitable for the further increase of the criminal affairs. No fight against organised crime will be effective until the ramifications of the clans find hospitality in the political-institutional ranks. The mafias have evolved through the winning strategy for them to take more effective paths than traditional ones, such as that of political-administrative conditioning. The contrast to these illegal activities, therefore, must, yes, pass through the control, seizure and confiscation of the illicitly acquired assets - which, let us remember, are not the property of the Mafia, but are the spoils of the Mafia, the one of which we have been plundered: those assets belong to each one of us - but, in order to really prevent the criminal activity from happening, prevention must be activated, avoiding precisely the first forms of infiltration that are well placed in the political sphere through the political-mafia electoral exchange, which must not only be sanctioned, but must also disappear from the Italian political context, thanks to our act of pride and an act of respect for all Italians. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u51	BUCCARELLA (Mixed). Mr President, I will spend just a few words, especially to the friends of the majority, saying something trivial, which we all know is that the criminal rules are nouned in particular places, which are the courtrooms of this country. Those who have frequency and knowledge of those places - clearly privileged categories are criminal lawyers and magistrates - can well see in the text that we are preparing to vote on the huge risk, which has already been evoked by other speakers, that, beyond the good intentions of the majority, the norm can be easily bypassed, legitimately from the defensive point of view. In fact, I, who am a modest jurist, imagining myself defending a defendant with a head of attribution that must refer to the words contained in the norm, if I were to defend a subject whose membership of the association referred to in Article 416- bis is known, I imagine that I would have played easily, at the probative and at the debate level, in questioning the accusatory thesis, because membership of a mob association, in my opinion, should be certified by a final sentence for the crime referred to in Article 416-a. Now, maybe this will happen, but it greatly restricts the scope of application in the intentions of those who want to propose this law. We know very well, in fact, that these are often long trials, of maxi-processes that last whole lustres and therefore we could potentially keep for ten or fifteen years people who objectively are part of mob organizations, but for which the final sentence has not yet intervened. Moreover, I imagine - always as a modest jurist what they are, so we imagine the criminal lawyers very good - that the other circumstance of notoriety, for the active subject of votes, of others belonging to the Mafia organization is another probative field, where the defenses can legitimately spend any argumentative and probative weapon to demolish the hypothesis and the accused thesis. Therefore, I address the friends of the majority. This text, realistically, will pass into this branch of Parliament in the current text, but I hope that in the other branch of Parliament we will pay attention to the remarks that not only the members of the opposition have raised, but also those who speak, who are known to be a senator who... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u52	Thank you. You know that your speech was already an exception, however, it concludes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u53	BUCCARELLA (Mixed). I would at least like to make my explanation of vote, Mr President. I was concluding with the hope that, therefore, in the subsequent examination of the measure, it will take a hand, for example by drawing on the amending heritage already resigned in this branch of Parliament. For these reasons, appreciating the positive aspects of the bill, such as, for example, relating the sentence to that provided for in the first paragraph of Article 416-bis, I declare my abstention vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u54	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot: [[Senators present 266 Senators voting 265 Majority 130 Favorables 160 Contrars 98 Absent 7 The Senate approves.]] [[v. Annex B. Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u55	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 5, 199, 234, 253, 392, 412, 563 and 652. The rapporteur, Senator Ostellari, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my technical report begins with a story. It begins with the story of a good man, of a husband, of a father, of a worker, whose life, one night, has changed forever. It is the story of a man who was woken up by three robbers, of a man who was afraid for himself and his wife, and of his own daughter who slept in the room next to his; but who in fear chose to defend himself, and to defend his family. A man who went through three robbers by himself, shooting a shot from a legally held gun. That man, whom we have listened to together with other victims of crime, opened the hearings that preceded the debate on the bill that we are presenting today. The man is, for Italian justice, today, a free man, because, after almost seven years of suspicion, among exhausting hearings, a conviction at first instance, an absolution on appeal and a third degree in Cassation, for the attempt of the relatives of the aggressor to claim compensation for the damage, has been definitively acquitted, freed from all fault. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]] Everything normal - someone will say - everything right. No, ladies and gentlemen, because this man is still a slave of the events he has had to endure, of the cost of trials, threats, of the media and social pillage that he and his family have suffered. In fact, after suffering the fear of an aggression carried out by three criminals, the man had to confront an unexpected opponent: the State, its State, the same State that was supposed to defend him, but instead forced him to face anxieties, fears, and finally to pay from his own pocket very heavy economic costs to prove his innocence, so much so that today that man had to change his life; he even had to give up his activity. He was a tobacconist; he was not - as they say - a wealthy man. He had to move near his parents, in the countryside of the province of Padua. Do you know why? Because he's afraid and he doesn't want to risk it anymore, not so much as being robbed, but having to defend himself from the state, from his own state. The story of this man is the story of so many men for good, of men who have paid too much to prove their innocence. It is for them that today we present this bill, not because we want more weapons, not because we are nostalgic about the far west. We do this out of respect, out of dignity, and so that those men are no longer afraid and the victims of crime are no longer victims of the State. The majority of these requests were voiced, as provided for in the Government contract. I now provide you with some procedural steps: in July the Justice Commission launched a joint examination of various draft laws aimed at reforming the institution of self-defense. The Commission has decided and carried out a wide range of hearings, listening, among others, to representatives of associations of victims of crime, university professors, magistrates and representatives of the forensic world. Even in the light of the contribution of the audits, as rapporteur, I felt that a unified text could be the most comprehensive summary of the various legislative proposals. Following the request of one fifth of the members of the Commission, the examination of the unified text was returned from the establishment to the contact person. The text was then examined by the Commission last Thursday. We therefore come to the merit of the measure: the bill consists of 9 articles; the first two intervene respectively in the matter of self-defense and manslaughter. In particular, Article 1 amends paragraph 2 of Article 52 of the Criminal Code, stating that in the event of a breach of domicile the proportionality relationship between defence and offense is always considered to exist. At home - it should be remembered - it is already equivalent, to existing legislation, every place where commercial, professional or entrepreneurial activity is carried out. The bill then adds a further paragraph to Article 52, which states that it is always in a state of self-defense who within the home and in the places assimilated to it rejects the intrusion by one or more persons who are violently engaged in or threatened with the use of weapons or other means of physical coercion. Article 2 of the bill then intervenes in Article 55, adding a further paragraph, with which it excludes, in the various hypotheses of legitimate home defense, the punishableness of those who, being in a condition of handicapped defense or in a state of serious disturbance deriving from the situation of danger, commit the fact to the safeguard of their own or others' safety. Among the most important aspects of the reformist intervention are also the changes made by Article 7 of the bill to the civil discipline of self-defense and excessive manslaughter. As is well known, Article 2044 of the Civil Code provides that those who cause the damage in self-defense or in defense of others are not responsible. This provision, to be seen, although addressed to self-defense, has found application in reference to forms of self-defense that we could call civilistic and therefore also to events that have little to do with the criminal institution. In addition, in practice, persons who acted in a state of self-defense and for whose actions were acquitted in criminal proceedings were subsequently sentenced in civil court to compensation for the damage caused to their aggressor or to those entitled to it. The fact that the conduct of the subject assaulted in his home does not constitute a crime, since the criminal court has deemed the cause of justification of the legitimate defence to exist, does not in itself automatically diminish the anti-juridicism of the same on the civil level, this also because of the different peculiarities, especially from the probative point of view, that characterize the civil and the criminal process. Precisely to remedy an obvious iniquity, we have considered to introduce the second paragraph to Article 2044 of the Civil Code, which specifies that, in cases of legitimate home defense, referred to in Article 52, paragraphs 2, 3 and 4, the non-criminal relevance of the conduct put in place by the subject assaulted in his home makes the injustice of the damage, necessary prerequisite of civil compensation, disappear, always and in any case. I begin by concluding, Mr President, by stressing that, as a complement to the reform of self-defense, Article 8 of the draft law introduces a new provision on justice costs. The provision extends the rules on legal aid in favour of the person in respect of whom storage, dismissal and non-negotiation have been arranged for the facts committed in a situation of self-defense and manslaughter. However, it is without prejudice to the right of the State to repeat the costs incurred in advance following the reopening of the investigation or the withdrawal of the dismissal. In this proposal, we have obviously incorporated the opinion of the Budget Commission (amendment 8,100), identifying the coverage of the provision. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Well, thank you. Mr Ostelleri, rapporteur. I have to finish, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's had enough time, but we'll give him a minute. Mr Ostelleri, rapporteur. Finally, in Article 132- bis of the implementing provisions, we recognize a preferential lane for any trial of manslaughter and manslaughter in the event of the circumstances referred to in Article 52 and in the second, third and fourth paragraphs of Article 55. Last provisions: Articles 5 and 3, in particular, provide that, in cases of conviction for theft in the apartment, the suspended sentence is subject to the full payment of the amount due for the compensation of the damage to the person offended. Articles 6 and 4 only provide for an increase in the penalties for those offences. Ladies and gentlemen, let us put right citizens back at the centre, defend those who have been forced to defend themselves and bring the state back to the side of the victims. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and FI-BP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u57	The minority rapporteur, Senator Cucca, has requested permission to carry out the oral report. By not making any comments, the request is deemed to have been accepted. I therefore call the minority rapporteur, Senator Cucca.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Senators, the Justice Commission has examined and approved this law on self-defense. It is regrettable, however, that, apart from the fact that a large number of hearings have actually been held in the Commission, the indications received from all those heard on those occasions (magistrates, lawyers, university professors and so-called sensitive subjects, such as tobacconists, jewellers or petrol stationers) have been disregarded, all of which have stressed the need to maintain the criterion of proportionality between offense and defence, which would be less so with the amendment proposed by Article 52 of the Criminal Code. In essence, I am saying that the hearings were unnecessary, because the findings were totally ignored by this majority. The majority also rejected any kind of confrontation: once again, on the basis of the strength and arrogance of the numbers, they rejected all the amendments proposed by the Democratic Party to remedy those inconsistencies and errors, which we will talk about later, emerged during the discussion and highlighted, as I said, by all the audit subjects. The draft law we are examining does not meet, among other things, the real requirements of greater security, as evidenced by the statistical data provided by the Ministry of Justice, according to which there is no urgency in the need for regulatory action of this magnitude. On the contrary, fear is exploited in this case, therefore the feeling of the citizens, forgetting - or rather, pretending to forget - that security is a problem the solution of which is generally up to the State, which cannot abdicate to its duties, cannot delegate to the citizen the security of the State itself through the extension of legitimate defence. The current text, which is the result of the 2006 reform, which introduced into the law the "presumption of proportion" in the case of a crime of trespassing, is already in itself suitable to meet the needs of self-protection. To confirm this, it is also noted that during the hearings of professional groups none of the representatives called for the extension of the use of arms; at most legislative intervention was required to make the process faster and easier to manage for those who are then called to account for their work and, again, widespread demand was made for the certainty of the penalty. This has emerged from the hearings and not from a request for an extension of the possibilities of self-defense, of course, by the use of arms, and thus by doing justice on its own. In the text approved, however, there are also provisions that can be accepted, such as the rule on excessive manslaughter and the one that gives priority to the processes related to the crimes referred to in Articles 589 and 590 of the Criminal Code. However, it should be remembered that the recent Orlando reform has also provided a remedy for setting a maximum period of 18 months for the conclusion of preliminary investigations. In any case, the amendment of Article 52 of the Criminal Code raises many concerns and concerns. In fact, with this rule we introduce an unreasonable absolute presumption of defense, which does not allow a correct application of the concepts of violence or threat of use of weapons, as it is certainly too generic in the text proposed to the House. The absence of any parameter of necessity in support of the reaction put in place leads to always give for presumed the right of defence in any case of trespassing of home and the proposed modification eliminates the same requirement of defensive necessity, making legitimate the defense only because such, that is, as reactive to an unjust aggression, in clear violation of the principle of balance between rights. On the other hand, we have seen the inclusion of the term'sturbation' in Article 55: we do not agree - but we will talk about it during the examination of the amendments - with the introduction of the word'serious', because in fact we do not understand how we can say that a disturbance is serious and another is not. This, once again, would open too many interpretative margins, absolutely subjective, and it would therefore not be possible to apply the standard uniformly throughout the national territory. A great deal of concern is expressed on Article 3, which provides, in the case of a conviction for the offence provided for in Article 624 bis (home theft and rip-off theft), for the conditional suspension of the sentence subject to the full payment of the amount due for the compensation of the damage. This raises doubts: because those who are rich and have the opportunity to pay could be suspended, whereas those who do not have the opportunity and the possibility to pay would be excluded. We have therefore expressed doubts about the constitutionality of this rule. As for the increases in punishment, we know that there is this very strong need. There have been proposals to the House for increases in sentences, but we seem unreasonable at least as far as the robbery is concerned, because for the crime of robbery there had already been an increase in the last parliamentary term, just over a year ago, so it would seem that we are going in some way to undermine the balance of the whole system. In the Committee on Justice, the Democratic Party has also tabled a number of amendments aimed at limiting the scope of the bill in the part where it brings the amendment to Article 52 of the Criminal Code, which is considered very dangerous for the reasons already set out. These amendments introduce elements of balance and common sense. For this reason, I would like to point out that the amendments aim at: intervening on the criminal of the proportion, providing that in order to appreciate the proportional relationship the means of defence available to the aggressor are taken into account, referring to the particular conditions; specifying that violence to things is not enough to be legitimated to the defense but violence to people is necessary (now there is simply a reference to very general violence); specifying that in order to be legitimated to the defense, it is necessary that the aggressor uses weapons, not only threatens, also because once again there is the genericity of the threat of weapons that is not known then to consist of concrete; clarifying what is meant by physical coercion, specifying that even from a lexical point of view it would be better to speak of "means of offense" given that the means of physical co-action, once again, are generic and indeterminate; suppressing, with regard to the Turbation, the adjective "grave" for the reasons I have already set out; suppressing the measure that the suspension of the penalty subject to payment. This rule, as I have already said, will probably be affected by the doubts of constitutionality that we have put forward in the Commission and which we will also propose in this House. Another amendment provides for the request for storage in legitimate defence cases referred to in Article 52 of the Code, precisely because it is worth paying attention to the concern that proceedings for facts which are committed in self-defense are carried out expeditiously and concluded with a prompt filing, when the criminal situation is apparent from the investigations, therefore it is ordered that the prosecutor urgently and without delay arrange the filing request. It also calls for an increase in the Rotation Fund for solidarity with victims of mafia-type crimes, extortion requests, usury and violent intentional crimes. Here, too, we are aware of why problems have been raised under Article 81 of the Constitution, but it is such an important issue that I believe it should also be reviewed by retrieving the funds, as we have pointed out. None of these amendments, not even those seeking to improve the text, have been taken into account. We have also asked that funds be increased in favour of the Police, so that we can have a higher number of persons belonging to the Forces of Order that can ensure that prevention that has been specifically requested by all audit subjects. We have also tabled an amendment to this effect, but none of the amendments, as I said, have been taken into account. As has been pointed out several times by audit subjects, once eliminated, the proportion will fatally re-emerge in the application of the case law, through the other fundamental requirement of the criminal constituted by the defensive necessity. We must stress that once again the legislator has proved totally deaf to the criticisms that have been made not by us, the Democratic Party Group, but by all the audit staff who have the authority to give the right advice. It was evidently a decision that had been taken elsewhere and this majority will take charge of these choices.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u59	The minority rapporteur, Senator Grasso, has requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the minority rapporteur, Senator Grasso.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u60	Mr President, on 25 September 2018, the cycle of hearings in the framework of the draft legislation under consideration was concluded. I have to say that the hearings have been full of ideas, to the point of making clear the need for further reflection and more time to examine the content of the majority's proposals. 11:34 a.m. (Following Grasso, minority rapporteur). A clear voice has been voiced on the part of minority senators: on sensitive issues such as self-defense, a wider debate than was permitted in the drafting process is appropriate. That is why we have requested that the examination be continued in the contact person. From the data transmitted by the Ministry of Justice and elaborated by the Department of Studies of the Senate, it is clear that the proceedings defined in debate in the Italian courts in four years (from 2013 to 2016), were ten for self-defense and five for the excess manslaughter of self-defense. Such a reform, therefore, is not justified, neither by urgency, nor by numbers, nor by the outcome of the trials. The examination of the judgments and the measures of filing has revealed, in fact, that all the processes for manslaughter of self-defense, even that which has been proposed by the rapporteur, have been concluded with filings or with non-penalty, except one - we have verified - and in that case the trial has established that the shot that killed the thief occurred outside the home, during the escape, and therefore had failed the topicality of the danger; circumstance that not even this bill succeeds to cover. Well, to point out that in reality and not in the world of propaganda and fear that you built day after day, in recent years the current laws are fine. Fortunately we are talking about a few cases and all dealt with with with the utmost attention by the magistrates. From a media point of view, the representation of defence as a right, and the fact that there is no judicial consequence, appears misleading. We must reject any kind of instrumentalization. A kind of pre-disclosure without any public prosecutor's assessment is unacceptable. From the procedural point of view, the reaction to an aggression, even if unjust, requires appropriate perital investigations and therefore also notices to ensure the possibility of defending oneself in the trial. The prosecution, in the presence of criminal hypotheses, is in fact mandatory, as is well known, because in the presence of a murder or injury as a result of an aggression always requires an investigation in order to reconstruct the historical reality of the happened. Only this procedure guarantees that a general and abstract rule can then be applied in the concrete case, always different, always subject to circumstances that are solely and solely for the public prosecutor first, and then for the judge to assess in order to bring the whole matter back within the framework of legality and the rule of law. For these reasons, it seems strongly counterproductive in systemic terms, even more than simply wrong, to eliminate in absolute way the discretion of the judge. Ideally, the reform is justified by evocative arguments, but fatally contrary to constitutional dictation and supranational principles. On the one hand, the legitimacy of the defence would derive from an alleged subjective right to a defensive self-protection, in short, a form of instinct of conservation without limits; on the other hand, it suggests the idea of the legitimate and unconditional succumbence of those who, having put themselves in the part of the wrong, it is right that they undergo the reaffirmation of the order of law according to a mechanism with an evident punitive and moralistic flavor: you have put yourself on the side of the wrong and must suffer the consequences of reactions that can also lead to your death. Without prejudice to the idea of a subjective right which has been removed from its defensive necessity, it irreparably runs counter to the principle of the necessary balance between rights, according to which no right can escape the balance with the right to life and personal safety, recognised as fundamental by our legal system and also by other international conventions. Just as any punitive sanction cannot fail to take account of the fundamental principle, affirmed not only by our Constitution but also by international acts, of the necessary proportionality of the sanctioning and punitive response of any unlawful act. It seems to me appropriate to mention Article 2 (2) of the Convention on Human Rights in this regard, which allows the lawful killing of a person by the person attacked only if such behaviour is absolutely necessary to reject an unlawful violence against a person and not mere assault on the property. With this in mind in general, Article 1 amends Article 52 of the Criminal Code on self-defense. The current prospects of reform of self-defense arise from the temperament between two opposing demands: on the one hand, the North American rhetoric according to which each citizen is in his own free house to fire against anyone who enters without invitation (whatever it may be, it is a kind of far west, a real license to kill, incompatible with the rule of law); on the other hand, the principle of the exclusive state monopoly of the use of force, being not conceivable, always and timely, to resort to the intervention of the Forces of order whenever the citizen suffers any aggression. Between these two extremes we must find a contemperation, and this is achieved by the current norms of self-defense. Self-defense, therefore, does not represent a fundamental original right, but finds its reason to be following a previous offensive behavior, without which there can be no self-defense. It is therefore essential that self-defense continues to be one of the causes of exclusion of criminality. The requirement of proportion is necessary in order to avoid legitimizing intolerable situations of manifest disproportion between aggression and reaction, which we want today, against, introduce. This stated, the idea of doing without the proportion through its elimination or the introduction of absolute presumptions starts the reformer path towards a dangerous plan of contrast with the fundamental principles of our legal system. Having eliminated the proportion, as in the case of domestic defence, already introduced in 2006, it fatally emerges through the other fundamental requirement of the criminal constituted by the defensive necessity, as is widely demonstrated by the German jurisprudence that, despite the absence of an express legislative requirement of proportionality, it introduced this principle in a case-law. All the teachers of criminal law and the legal practitioners heard could only say that the need for defence cannot but imply the requirement for the assessment of proportionality. Having said that, the draft reform law begins to take the great step of eliminating the same requirement of defensive necessity, making legitimate the defense only because such, as a reactive to an unjust aggression, thus reducing the link between aggression and defensive reaction to a mere chronological succession and defensive efficiency of the reaction. Now in a rule of law, if a person is killed, whether a thief or an honest man, it is necessary, as we have seen, necessarily an investigation and a trial to reconstruct the historical reality of the event; it is only at that point that the criminal rules come into play, after a judge has ascertained the legality of the modalities of conduct put in place as a reaction to an aggression. There cannot and must not be any automatism, even to prevent them from consuming themselves, taking advantage of being in their home, pre-arranged arson killings, even against family people or opponents, disguised as self-defense. Always assuming and in any case the innocence of those who use a weapon at home is a serious danger to a rule of law. I conclude by saying that it is also necessary to assess, through the amendments made by Article 2 to Article 55 of the Criminal Code in the matter of manslaughter, the danger of linking the criminality to the serious state of disturbance resulting from the present situation of danger. Well, giving legislation to states of mind of the attacker is extremely dangerous. Article 90 of our penal code provides that emotional and passional states do not exclude or reduce the countervailable. This minority report has attempted to restore the serious shortcomings of this unified text, as well as the serious risks to which we are exposed. It is indeed of vital importance that Parliament and each of its members assess with conscience the substance and method of the measure under discussion before ratifying, perhaps in good faith, a real license to kill. I ask the Presidency to be able to attach the remainder of my speech to the documents. [[Applause from Senators De Petris and Errani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u61	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u62	Mr President, I wanted to speak on the text under discussion not only because the first draft law presented in this legislature bears my signature (although I do not think that we will be talking about "La Russa law"), but above all because we have spent a lot on self-defense, Brothers of Italy. In fact, already in the last legislature we have found that the legislation, which had been modified even during the first Berlusconi Government, had not solved the problem and, because of how the law had been modified (so I do not attribute responsibility to the judiciary) had left room for absolutely discordant interpretations. It was necessary and necessary to make easy the interpretation of a norm, which had been ironed in various directions, and to reach what stated a slogan, also initially coined by the Brothers of Italy and made also by a considerable part of the Government: the defense is always legitimate. We heard him resume, not only from the Brothers of Italy who had coined him, but also from the League and from representatives of other parties. That is why we have insisted on presenting our bill in this parliamentary term. Today, however, we will be voting in favour of the text, which in any case represents a step forward, but we believe that it is not in line with the desire for clarity and to eliminate any interpretative doubt. We believe that it is a step backwards - I say this to the friends of the League - compared to what was proposed with a great voice in the electoral campaign. We need to make Parliament's will clear in order to help the magistrates to make uniform judgments. There's one thing we can't bear. I say this as a lawyer who has had the opportunity to be close to some people who have had the misfortune to defend themselves, who have not sought it, who have suffered in their homes the confrontation of an unjust aggression and who, in order to defend themselves and their family, have had to kill a man, doing something that in their lives would never have thought they had to do. We have had the misfortune of having to see how these people, already proved by fate, have had, after the first attack by criminals, a second punishment by the state that has kept them under trial, even then perhaps absolved them. This is the case of Corazzo in Milan, whose practice was archived after eighteen months: for eighteen months he was under trial. On the other hand, there is the owner of the Lodi tavern, Mario Cattaneo, which is still under trial: after he had been accused of voluntary murder, now we have gone to the excessive manslaughter of self-defense: absolution will come but years of new suffering will have passed. What do we think? I'll tell Senator Grasso. Do we think that the requirement of proportionality should disappear from the law? No, this requirement remains absolutely, as the first extensors wanted in the norm, in all cases where self-defense should or may occur outside the home and outside the commercial places. In that case, we don't touch the requirement. Do we eliminate him on occasions when the attack takes place inside the house? Absolutely not. However, let us give a precise interpretation - a presumption, if you will - of when that proportionality must still be considered existing. Do we eliminate the role of the magistrate? We don't think about it at all. I say this not only to Senator Grasso, but to all those who have felt that our way of imagining self-defense automatically makes a far west or something, so if anyone comes into the house I can appeal to you by any means. It is not so: the magistrate, in our proposal and in our amendments, will have an essential role, but he will not have to investigate the subjective element of the attack - said Senator Grasso in other ways, coming to an opposite solution - and he will not have to consider whether in that condition he has suffered a disturbance or a fear; he will not have to investigate to understand if he could realize that there was a weapon rather than another or if the attacker showed his face rather than his back. In these conditions we believe that the magistrate must have regard to the modalities - it is not that he looks at nothing - and therefore to the concreteness of the facts, not the psyche, with which the aggression takes place. He must verify that there is a threatening, violent, fraudulent intrusion and that there is an intention to harm. The magistrate can and must verify it: the postman must not be hit, who enters the house by accident. He must also verify that this intrusion, when warned by the attacker, is done in a manner capable of creating a state of fear or agitation. You have to investigate the modalities, not the fact that the attacker is afraid. If someone walks in misguidedly or comes in with a gun in his hand, it creates fear and agitation. The magistrate doesn't have to watch if the subject got scared or not and if he saw that he had a gun. At that point the data is objective and in those conditions there is a proportion between the reaction and the aggression, which has already manifested itself, with the abusive, violent or threatening entry, with ways to create fear or agitation. The reaction in those cases is certainly proportional to the offense and therefore the defense in those cases is always legitimate: there is no doubt about this. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Pazzaglini]] We have heard other criticisms that this rule increases the use of weapons. There is not a single comma in the law, in any of the legislative proposals, which extends or amends the current legislation on the use of weapons. He lies knowing he's lying to someone who says otherwise. Some people are talking about the far west. Did you see the movies on the far west where you used to fight guns on the street in your hand? That is the far west and it is another field that the legislator will have to examine in some way. That's the far west. But in the house other than west. We don't get there and we don't want to get to the excesses - do we want to call them that? - from other countries, such as the United States, where proportionality exists even in the absence of danger of unfair damage. We believe that offensive behaviour, as outlined in the measure, has as a consequence, ifu oculi, the presumed proportionality of the reaction which - I repeat - always constitutes a legitimate defence in the circumstances that we have tried to outline. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP groups and Senator Aimi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u63	Senator Pillon is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear from this point of view that the measure we are debating is not a matter of security; the so-called Salvini decree will come to this House and we will talk about security there. This measure is a simple debt of justice for when the State has not been able to guarantee the necessary security and the citizens have found themselves, left alone, in the face of unjust aggression. I have heard talk in this House of making west and liberalised murders. There's always talk of jewelers gunslingers. I prefer to make another example. I like to think that this measure is dedicated, for example, to a girl who had to defend herself, perhaps with her bare hands or pepper spray, by an attacker who had penetrated her home and tried to rape her. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And maybe with that pepper spray the girl caused the retina of the attacker to detach and now she is being investigated for serious injuries and, even, she is being asked for compensation for the damage. These are the people we want to respond to with the bill under consideration. Oppositions say that the proceedings are few and all concluded with acquittal. However, I would like to ask why this statement was not made by the opposition to the victims of these situations, which we also met during the lengthy hearings. We do not build worlds of propaganda and fear, as some have just said, but we are dealing with real people who have suffered real attacks and have had to defend themselves. We owe them an answer. Colleagues, I have not heard you say that the current rules are adequate in front of the people we audited. No one wants to take away any discretion from the judge, but we must provide for privileged ways of defining proceedings for those who have incurred unjust attacks. We have therefore a moral debt in front of those who, after the attack, also had to go through the stage of media domination and a trial (which, as the jurist Carnelutti said, is in itself a penalty) and had to face a claim for compensation. On the subject, the measure we are preparing to vote substantially amends Article 52 of the Criminal Code. While leaving intact the proportionality criterion referred to in paragraph 1, it is expected a significant addition to paragraph 4, with the definition of a framework within which the defence is always considered legitimate. This picture is given by some elements: the need to reject an intrusion which has been violently or threatens to use weapons or other means of physical co-operation and which has been carried out by one or more persons. In this frame, the defense is always legitimate. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] We want it to be clear that the state stands on the side of honest citizens and against rapists, thugs, robbers and aggressors. With this change, which is in our view indispensable, this clarity appears. I also owe Senator Ugo Grassi a courtesy debt, which showed me an interesting perspective in relation to Article 2044 of the Civil Code, as we amended it. As you know, Article 2044 of the Civil Code provides for the exclusion of damages when operating in a situation of self-defense. However, we also know that this rule needed some retouching to be clarified. We have then added a clarification to paragraph 2 and paragraph 3, which makes it clear that the responsibility of those who have done the thing, in the cases referred to in Articles 52, paragraphs second, third and fourth of the penal code, is excluded; we are talking about civil liability. Senator Grassi rightly says that we are perhaps in a situation in which we repeat the same legislation twice. Perhaps the rule could have been more precise; the suggestions he made to us, unfortunately out of the maximum time, were perhaps in the most elegant point of law. But here I believe that, even if I reiterate and duplicate the provision of legislation, it has been clarified the legislator's will to exclude any possibility of claim for compensation from the relatives of the aggressors, who cannot, with a systematic secondary victimization, claim to cross the victim again. This is therefore the framework in which we are preparing to vote. I think this is really a debt of justice. First it was said that the proceedings are few. But it was also only one case per year (apart from the fact that we know very well that in the prosecutions of criminal proceedings are not listed under Article 52 of the Criminal Code, but rather as murder, serious injuries or other titles, so it is very difficult for the prosecutions to be able to give clear and statistically acceptable data), we, however, for a matter of substantive justice, should say a clear and definitive word about the fact that defence is a right, that defence is a duty, that defence is always legitimate. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u65	Senator Stancanelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the bill we are debating today relates to the institution of self-defense and to the amendment of the rules referred to in Article 52 of the Criminal Code, with speeches also on Article 55. As Senator La Russa said, this is a historical battle of the political right and of Brothers of Italy, so much so that even in the past legislature a bill has been presented to achieve this change and to make it clearer the scope of the norm in relation to punishableness or not. At present the discipline of Article 52 is such that for the realization of what is called a criminal the following requirements are necessary: the existence of a right to be protected, own or others (it must be ascertained and evaluated), the need for defence, the topicality of danger, the injustice of offense and the relationship of proportion between defence and offense. This has already been widely said by the rapporteur and a thorough examination has been carried out in the Commission, including with the considerable hearings held. These requirements have led to cases, which the rapporteur wanted to point out (as well as Senator La Russa) of many who were forced not only to suffer the offense of aggression at home, but also to suffer the wrong of being not only and simply investigated. In fact, no one with any knowledge of the law can say that there should be no investigation. This is also a misleading argument: none of us, let alone this new text, states that the judge should not investigate. The problem is another: that the judge, investigating, must stop where he finds those requirements that the new norm requires. In 2006, as has already been mentioned, the so-called legitimate home defense was codified, introduced to give the possibility to those who defend themselves at home to be better able to protect not only their lives or those of their loved ones, but also their procedural position in relation to investigations. This was not enough, because the proposed enlargement with the text approved in the Commission puts us in a position to give more certainty to those who defend themselves at home. This is why Brothers of Italy affirms that defence is a right and always considers it legitimate in the presence of the requirements that the law provides. This was also part of the contract of Grill-Legist Government, where it is expressly said: "in view of the principle of the inviolability of private property, it is foreseen the reform and extension of the legitimate home defense, eliminating the elements of interpretative uncertainty (with reference in particular to the assessment of proportionality between defence and offense) that affect the full protection of the person who has suffered an intrusion into his own home and workplace." That is what we subscribe to immediately, and that is why we shall then vote in favour of this bill. However, the text which the Commission has hesitated to put forward seems to us to be weak in the application of the idea of a government contract. In fact, as Senator La Russa said, there is too much room for discretion left to the judge, which is likely to frustrate the legislative change. At a time when we establish that defence is a right and is therefore always legitimate, we must anchor the possibility that the judge will assess the way in which he enters his home or place of work, not as he who is attacked reacted. In fact, in the Commission's text, justice is not affected by the view of the lesser danger in which the citizen incurs. If I find myself a thief in the house, I can't think he's there to steal my silverware (less risk), but I have to have the right to think he's there to kill me or harm my family (more risk). It is also a peaceful concept in many other areas. The excessive discretion of the court remains in the Commission's text, where the second paragraph of Article 52 of the Criminal Code has not been amended, which specifies that proportionality from defence with a legitimate weapon is where there is no existence and danger of aggression. For us it is exactly the opposite: our amendment overturns the concept, avoiding assessing the existence, which opens up to the discretion of the judge, focusing only on the danger of aggression. This is at the heart of the weakness of the regulatory system that came out of the Commission. Let me then say something about the wording "weapon legitimately held": do we want to put in condition the citizen who wants to defend himself at home to have to assess, when he suffers the attack, whether the weapon he holds is legitimate or not? He will certainly respond to the judge for the abusive possession of a weapon, but we cannot accuse him that he defended himself and saved his life or that of his family without thinking whether or not he had the concession to hold the weapons. Here again we have tabled an amendment to delete the word 'legitimately held'. The basic principle for us is absolute: If they come into my home, I'm in danger of life. One cannot ask a common citizen, who is being attacked in the place where security should be greater - hence the state of mind of alert to the minima - to assess the proportionality of the response to aggression. This is only possible by those who are trained to do so and in a dominant position: for example, the Forces of Order. This is obviously not the condition of a common citizen, sheltered from his own home, evidently unable to assess with coldness and lucidity the proportionality from his reaction. I think that these elements, together with the amendments which we have tabled and which we are debating in this House, can and should put us in a position to improve the text of the law. We appreciated the majority, we appreciated the members of the Justice Commission (both of the 5 Stars and of the League) who joined this approach, but I would like to point out to them that the text that came out of the Commission is not equal to the discussions, assessments and weightings that were made during the hearings, because all those who have been wronged by the aggression - and today are still wrong to be faced with a state that is often opposed - want the certainty that this is no longer the case. I'll make one final point. The press is talking - and this has also been mentioned here this morning - about far west. As Senator La Russa said, and many distinguished colleagues have repeated, there is not a single line in this bill that changes the current rules on arms possession. In Italy the concession of the port of arms is how much more restrictive exist and is not subject in question in this bill. That is why we support this approach. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. STANCANELLI (FdI). In voting on the amendments we will try to make improvements to the text of the law. [[Applause from the FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u67	Senator Grassi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by expressing my thanks to Senator Pillon for mentioning me during his speech. I want to point out that I am not only honored with appreciation, but I am also quite certain that the objective he has indicated is reasonable, and that is something I personally share. The mismatch between the criminal judgment and the civil judgment has always been the subject of wide criticism. I just want to add that I really hope that the proposed amendment will achieve that objective. In future, however, in my opinion, it would also be good to put a hand in the Code of Criminal Procedure, because the mismatch between the criminal judgment and the civil judgment, with regard to the acquittals we are talking about, is also determined by the coordination between Article 652 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and Article 530 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I'm not going into tech and I'm going to be very synthetic. The consolidated jurisprudential opinion wants the acquittal to have a preclusive effect in the civil judgment, that is also valid in civil court for the purpose of compensation of the damage, only when it contains an effective and specific determination about the non-susistence or the fact or participation of the accused, and does not, instead (the criminal judgment) apply in the civil process, even if the solution is determined by the determination of the non-susistence of sufficient evidence. Therefore, misalignment is also determined by a different amount of evidence required in criminal proceedings and civil proceedings. I would merely point out to the House, where this final result is to be shared, that it is appropriate to consider a draft law amending the articles I have mentioned. I renew my thanks to Senator Pillon, and thank you for giving me these minutes. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u69	Senator Candura is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have had the honour to attend the debate on the formation of the measure in the Justice Commission, in which colleagues of majority and opposition, lawyers and former judges have spoken. At the hearing we listened to illustrious lawyers from the judiciary, the world of lawyering, teachers from various Italian universities: I heard legal analyses that were impeccable, punctual and sometimes even too detailed, because they make us forget the purpose of the political action we are pursuing, that is, what we are going to reform, the context of our political action and, in particular, what is the legitimate defence that we are going to change. Today we are dealing with the self-defense of the home, that is, the self-protection of those in their homes or homes who see their safety threatened, the safety of their loved ones and that little or that much they possess. Not only do we have traces of this, not so much in the contemporary systems of almost all the democracies on the planet, but it is even a portrait of the oldest texts of Western culture. President, the Exodus, book of the Bible, chapter 22, verse 1 et seq., speaks of the defense and lawfulness of offending the thief who is preparing to break into the wall of our property. The doctrine of the Catholic Church, returning, if you prefer, to the New Testament, where it speaks of the fifth commandment, which precisely concerns murder, provides for the self-defense that is not only right, contrary to what I have heard in this Assembly, but it is even duty, where it is realized to defend the innocent. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is the Western culture that has various interpretations. For those who have a secular vision of the world, the right to life is the supreme right for a human being. As a result, self-protection is nothing more than a corollary. How can I support the right to life if I do not support the right to self-defense? This is a consideration that applies to all of us who are interpreters, with various nuances and declinations, without distinction of majority and opposition, of the Western culture we belong to - like it or not. So why reform the institution of self-defense? I can think of the words of an auditor, the magistrate Carlo Nordio, who tells us what the atmosphere is, the political and cultural temperie in which the penal code was born, with particular reference of course to self-defense: fascism. During fascism, the citizen, who is a subject (because in the fascist era there was also the monarchy), delegates himself and all his rights to the State, which is moralist rather than legislator. This means that self-defense is understood as an unpleasant possibility to be limited, so much so that our code currently works as a limitation of the exercise of self-defense; despite the millennia they teach us to be right and corollary of the right to life, for us it is a criminal, a cause of justification and let us forget legal technicalities that just mean that we are limited in being able to breathe. Or at least that's my modest opinion. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] In this case I prefer the liberal perspective: the individual is at the centre and there is a social contract that binds the individual to the State, with some precise functions delegated to the State, including the defence of security. But where the State fails, unless someone tells me that we have the resources in the budget to put a public security agent in every house, it is possible - indeed, lawful and natural - for the individual to provide for his own defense, of his loved ones and, yes, of his own property, because he is not simply realized in survival, but in living. As a result, ladies and gentlemen, I would never want the victim of a crime to become a victim of the state. Senator La Russa - whom I thank, although he is no longer present in this Chamber - has made it clear that the victim is twice a victim. In fact, it is often forgotten that no activity or omission has been carried out at home as a result of which an invasion or aggression has been deserved. If then someone thinks they can make assessments of proportionality and topicality of the danger at nighttime, in front of an unknown aggressor, let me know: maybe, he will teach me something. However, let us remember that the reform of the institute of self-defense is necessary not only because it is part of the program of the League and the government contract, but above all because it is a request of our citizens. It is good to remember that we are all here for a reason: to protect and represent our citizens, [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , with the mandate of which we exercise - and we are honored to do so - the function of parliamentarians and senators of the Republic. The honest citizen remains at the heart of the political action of the League and this majority. We demonstrated this this morning with the vote on the political-mafia exchange and we will demonstrate it again with the vote on self-defense: the honest citizen at the center, always. The criminal, my lords, has already chosen the path of violence on people and things, but he cannot and absolutely must not be protected, even indirectly, by the State: in fact, the natural defensive reaction of those who protect themselves in the intimacy of their home happened because of a failure of the State, which fails twice and becomes criminal at the time when he pursues those who defend themselves in their own home. Mr. President Grasso (to whom I humbly address myself, even if I am not a former magistrate or lawyer, but a citizen), honestly, I defend myself in my home and, if it happens, I would also defend my property. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] With what? With as much lethality as possible, because on the other hand - regardless of the reform of self-defense - I do not know who there is. I apologise for addressing Senator Grasso personally, Mr President: I may not even have the authority, but I have allowed myself to do so as a simple colleague. In thanking the President and colleagues, I invite everyone to vote in favour of this reform which, as the friends of Brothers of Italy say, may not yet be the final one, but it is a remarkable step forward. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u71	Senator Candura, we allowed it because it was an argumentative interlocation and also for grace.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u72	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Enrico Fermi Industrial Technical Institute, Castrovillari, in the province of Cosenza, who attend our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u73	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the work done on the text of self-defense has been positive. From a personal point of view, I can also say that it was gratifying, because it was part of one of the commitments we made with the elections, namely the amendment of the legislation on self-defense, and for which we were voted in single-member colleges or proportional. The work was also gratifying because, as far as we are concerned, the measure is specifically part of the centre-right programme, so working on this with colleagues of the League was positive, even in a political logic. What should we say about this bill? First of all, I would like to thank the President of the Commission, who is the rapporteur today, because he has done a work of synthesis: we say that it is not enough, but we recognise that he has done a patient job of synthesis, with Nordic practicality, if you pass this evaluation a little over the lines. I would also like to thank my colleagues in the Commission, because we have done a very careful job on the hearings, from which we have learned a few things. For example, we have noticed that there is a clear gap between associations that have come to talk about the concrete problems of people who, perhaps, have found themselves or are currently under process, and the legal approach that may appear more abstract, because it is an approach that compares the value of life with that of heritage. To find a synthesis, therefore, was not easy, even if we had very clear ideas, in the sense that we absolutely had to intervene on a series of incorrect jurisprudential interpretations for which, in the end, a person who hypothetically caused a injury or even killed a thief in the house, besides the damage also suffers the mockery - at least so to date - to end up in trial, with the risk of even two types of proceedings, the criminal one and that of compensation for the damage. With the approval of this bill on self-defense we say to the country that the State takes note that it cannot put a policeman in every house, but not for this reason, that is not for its own failure, it bears the consequences on the citizen who, in a moment of terror - such as that which can be lived when attacked in the house or in a shop - causes injury or even the death of the person who attacked him. It is a response that is given above all with reference to this. It is wrong to say, in my opinion, that one responds to a need for security and that all this will lead to a far w est, it has nothing to do with it. We respond to the request of people, citizens and it can happen to each of us to end up in civil or criminal trial for the mere fact that we have defended our own space of life, that is, the home or in any case their own commercial activity. I would like to say this since, as you will have seen, e-mails are coming on this bill and the need not to vote on it because it would result in the far west. It is good to make it clear that the assumptions are absolutely not linked to allowing everyone to shoot people on the street, but they are completely different. As I said before, we cannot allow a citizen, in addition to the damage, to be mocked as well. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Pazzaglini]] In this regard, I would like to give an example. Not later than three or four months ago, the Court of Cassation had to pronounce on a case which occurred in Veneto - so the person suffered three degrees of judgment - in which a thief's wife filed a legitimate claim for damages against the person who, finding himself the thief in the shop, had killed him. You will tell me that, in the end, it was one of the rare cases in which there was putative and therefore it was recognized that the damage was not due; that person, however, had to undergo three degrees of judgment, with an analytical reconstruction of the facts, with so much of CTU (Office Technical Advice) to understand if he had actually killed the thief or not. If I remember correctly, as I said, it was a case in Veneto and, in fact, the second-degree judgment came from the Venice Court of Appeal. Well, this gentleman suffered a theft and to react he killed a Romanian, if I'm not mistaken, and in addition to having undergone, of course, a criminal trial in which he was found not guilty anyway, he continues to receive claims for damages from his wife. You understand that even a single case of this kind is enough to arouse not the problem of insecurity but a social alarm that then degenerates into total and absolute distrust in the State, in the institutions and in everything that then normally leads to degradation in the country. We believe, therefore, that this bill is important and that it was important to do so quickly, because that was not obvious either. Of course, we would have preferred to have more guarantees, because we were starting from the concept of the right to defence, precisely to avoid the problem relating to trials, because we do not believe that these problems are solved, just to understand, with the increase of penalties, this has been told to us all. We are creating a certain chaos in this area, and we should put the penalties at the level. That's a little more articulate, but the thief doesn't know he's in danger of five or ten years. That's the truth. So it's not so much a penalty tightening problem. Very important, on the other hand, would be to establish the principle of reversal of the burden of proof, which means that you can't even charge yourself with the fact that you have to prove that you're innocent. That's what the prosecution's gonna do. In conclusion, I would like to add one last point, clearly in the general context, which is indicative. We would have preferred to have a more clear text, but surely we identify distortions. Do you know, in my opinion, where it is clearly seen that there have been distortions? From the fact that the Senate did not get complete data relating to the various procedures concerning self-defense, because only and exclusively those defined in debate were provided while we know absolutely nothing about what happened at the level of prosecutors. But those are the data that raise the social alarm because today, unfortunately you know, you just have to be entered in the register of suspects and practically your reputation is over and you are a man destroyed. This means that a little more open-mindedness and cooperation on the part of the judiciary would certainly have avoided, even in the past, the twists of a norm itself clear but poorly applied and that above all could be explained a little better because the data could also transmit them. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u75	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Emanuele. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u76	Mr President, as a result of the legislative process of the reform of self-defense, a few brief but necessary reflections are required. On the one hand, we must acknowledge and give thanks, despite everything, to those who have collaborated, or at least debated, even in their respective political positions and institutional roles, in order to broaden an important debate which, from a purely legal point of view, has been absolutely prominent. Although in dissension, I appreciate what has been said by minority speakers, Senator Cucca and Senator Grasso. We must, of course, thank the rapporteur, and also the President of the Commission, Mr Justice, who, since the preparatory work and also in this report, has laid the foundations for a frank, even tough, but certainly level and principle debate. And even more political and legal value takes on the very will to work on a text that takes into account all the proposals presented, both of parliamentary and extra-parliamentary sources. This is a clear signal of a technical-political operation which, in a decisive way, should have removed, or reasonably should have removed, sterile polemics which, although noisy, are unfortunately outside of this House and which are crowding the media. Beyond the mere technical analyses, which have already been made explicit during the examination in the Commission and even today (and of which the goodness is confirmed in any case), a political check is required for our role. Although someone has tried to diminish the value of the work done in Parliament for a mere political and propaganda calculation, it must be emphasized that today we are giving rise to a mandate conferred on us by the people; a mandate which in the tripartition of powers requires us to translate into norms and articulate the needs and needs, rights and duties not only of our voters, but of all those who live in our country. It is precisely in order to give value to these needs and needs that the Commission has managed to raise everyone, indeed everyone, by using the right time, but without losing it. We have had the opportunity to listen to and involve all those who have not only brought value to the legal reading and construction, certainly completed and articulated, but also and above all those who have suffered the harmful, unjust and dramatic consequences of a set of norms that has become anachronistic, which has led to the cases, indeed the tragedies, that we have known through the news; and we have had proof of this even during the hearings, I repeat. Let us not forget that those who report that a structure such as the one we are approving today would protect very few cases, I must say that the task of law is to protect all, the many and the few. I have also heard that this reform would have an adverse effect on the Constitution and the legal order; I have heard that this reform allows everyone to have weapons; I have heard that with this reform Italy would turn into the Far West; in short, we would be ready for war. Faced with these statements as well as certain frankly laughable manifestations by those who have opposed this law, aimed only at attracting media attention by transferring false or even worse false news of the whole, we remain grounded and bewildered, because this really amounts to trying to instill fears and fears that do not exist in ordinary people; so that hearing can and must become the truth for the favor of someone. But we must remind this someone that the wind has changed. Today the people have understood that the protection of their rights cannot depend on those who create and fuel controversy; today the people have understood that the text that we are approving will provide the instrument to give justice to those who today risk not only suffering unjust damage from criminals and criminals, but even risk being subjected to criminal proceedings and civil proceedings with all that comes from it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I would like each one of us to put himself in the shoes of those people who have seen a stranger enter their homes by force; I would like him to identify himself - and even then it will not be enough - with the soul of any father who sees his son put in danger during the night; I would like him to identify himself with any husband who sees his own life, his wife and his family endangered; and I would like him to identify himself with the spirit of any man or woman who must put himself on the same level within a few moments the protection of his loved ones and the risk of having to ruin himself for what might happen afterwards, for the faults of the State. I would also like to draw attention to what the minority rapporteur, Senator Cucca, said about the quality of his legal contributions. But when I hear that, alternatively to this reform, more money should be given to the police, I simply say that, firstly, our Minister of the Interior is already providing and, secondly, where were you before? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Are these evocative arguments? I don't think so. That is why the reform we are proposing has no other purpose than to protect those who are protecting us today. Reform of justice, reform of civilization, reform of dignity. It is a reform that today is described by someone as absolute evil but which, instead, must be read in a respectful way. Let us remember, in fact, that the community we represent today is not only an abstract idea, but it bears the names and surnames of those who work and struggle every day to realize themselves and their family. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And it's these names and surnames that we have to protect everywhere and anyhow. It is for their protection that defence is always legitimate. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u77	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with what Senator Modena said initially. On our part, too, there is recognition of the work done by the President of the Justice Commission, Senator Ostellari, for presenting a text that, in fact, manages to mediate different positions. Presumably, the result of today's work will not be what we would have liked. We would have liked to have put our hands on the criminals' installation, since today this is the occasion, starting from the self-defense and, perhaps, even by recovering work from the past of reforming the penal code. I am thinking of the work of the Ministerial Commission for the Reform of the Criminal Code chaired by Nordio. I say this because, evidently, when we talk about articles 52, 55 and 59 of the penal code, which are the core business (allow me the term) around which the subject of the criminals of self-defense revolves, we know that, the plant, as the colleague intervened before and some representatives of the League, is the one wanted by Rocco and the lawyer Manzini. It is a vision of the state above all, father and mother of all things, reference point. Everything for the State, nothing outside of it: it is Hegelian idealism that lies within the construction, in its logical way, of the planting of criminals (consensus of rightful persons, exercise of the right, state of necessity, legitimate defense, legitimate use of weapons), with the temperaments that Articles 55 and 59 of themselves foresee. Therefore, that code, which responded to that logic, which has its foundation and rationality, clearly starts from the assumption that the State, which is the holder of security, cannot intervene anywhere. Therefore, legitimately, when it cannot delegate it and, if the action is legitimate, recognizes the legitimacy of the defence of the citizen: the topicality of the danger, the proportionality of the offense and the need to defend itself. Therefore, for Manzini, the foundation of self-defense was evident in the fact that it is the State that recognizes the legitimacy of the intervention, the legitimacy of a sort of delegation of power from the State to the citizen. Already then, however, other lawyers, such as Antolisei, Bettiol and Pettoello Mantovani actually went in search of a somewhat different solution, so the foundation of this cause of justification lies more properly in the interest of asserting the right of the attacker to the injustice of aggression. It is what, in other words, is expressed in the brocardo "Vim" repelling you omnes leges, et omnia iura permittunt " (i.e., the use of force in front of an illegitimate use of original force). That approach already in the code Rocco would seem - and it is - rational, if it were not that - happened and examples have unfortunately been dramatically remembered today - in fact it happens that those who are at home sleeping in their own home, maybe with their children next door, and receive a visit from a person, at that moment does not have the opportunity to know if it wants to take away the linen or do a massacre. Adgreditus non habet staderam: he is not a judge who at that time can discern the circumstances and facts. That is why the draft law under consideration, on the basis of what will emerge from the mediation by the President of the Commission, allows at least this teaching to be taken into account, and amends Article 55 in terms of excessive manslaughter, non-perpetuality, at least when we are faced with states of disturbance in the reaction. I said this because we would have liked a real change of paradigm, of reasoning, of philosophy that is the basis of the text, where we put the citizen and the State at the centre intervenes when the citizen is not able to act, because the State is based on a pactum societatis between the citizens and on a devolution that they make to the State of their property rights or the right to life and individual safety. That is why we have allowed ourselves to table amendments to the text, essentially calling them the exercise of the right of defence, with what follows. And I'm talking about non-automatic processability. In front of a dead person there is always an investigation and there will always be a registration in the register of suspects; before an attack there will always be these things. However, it is clear that, if there is a right of defence, we should make a change so that, if it is established that I have acted in the exercise of a right of defence, I will be criminalised and not because the fact does not constitute a crime, but because the fact does not exist and, therefore, there will never be any consequence; indeed, it will be possible to stop proceedings before having to wait unjustly - as we have seen in the cases mentioned today that I do not repeat - the third degree to see perhaps recognized, if it is okay, after an infinite number of procedural costs, lawyers and after losing time, their right to an unjust aggression that has been suffered. That is why the basis of our amendments to the text had as its core the right to defend itself and the recognition of non-criminality in the face of a state of disturbance in the exercise of law, as in the excess of manslaughter, drawing on the experience of the German penal code and, therefore, of Article 33. Moreover, all the professors we have audited in the Commission have recognised the need to intervene by including this change in the excessive manslaughter. They said that very clearly. I think of Professor Caruso of Milan, who explained this. Even Professor Mantovani, who was absolutely opposed to putting his hand on Article 52, said that in any case you can work on Article 55, on improper guilt you can work on. It is therefore not punishable if the state of my action is the result of a disturbing situation, so obviously in this case I can rule out criminality. I shall start with the conclusions, Mr President. The text contains significant elements and steps forward, due also to some amendments, partly accepted, of oppositions and suggested by Forza Italia. However, we realize that this is not what we would have wanted and I repeat the point of my speech. We also have the impression that this text is a bit ad usum delphini, where the dolphin is not the son of Maria Teresa of Austria and Louis XIV, but is the partner of government. We realize that the more you couldn't do. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Garnero Santanché is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u79	Mr President, of course, Brothers of Italy agree on self-defense, which has always been our battle, because the principle is that defence must always be considered legitimate. I must also say that in the state we imagine there would be no need for self-defense, because the state we would like is the one that guarantees security to all citizens, through greater control of the territory, safer roads and therefore more Forces of order in the streets, more certainty of the penalty, because today the problem is that the certainty of the penalty is no longer there and the criminals in jail are not there. So, in the state we imagine, this would be a problem overcome. However, since today the conditions of the state we would like do not exist, the change of pace on self-defense is very good. And we say it forcefully and we don't speculate on the fear of citizens, as someone says every day. It does not say, in fact, Brothers of Italy that there is an emergency in the matter of security. We do not say that in some political parts we are seen as speculators on the fear of citizens, but the facts of the news say so. Just watch TV shows and open the papers to see that every day a matter of news leads to emergency security. All this happens and this phenomenon continues to grow because the left has always had a very ideological approach to security. On the left, when it comes to safety, still today comes hives and itching all over the body, because it has always had an ideological vision. So the famous prison-empty measures or the decriminalisation of crimes have led citizens to feel much less secure. It is good, therefore, that the measure today at our examination changes the existing legislation, because we have always said and argued that the defence is legitimate. If anyone enters our homes, we do not have to ask ourselves so many questions because, if he does, it is not to take tea with the pastries, but to steal and also - as happens - to hurt our loved ones. So, it is very good that we are talking about self-defense today and that there is a change of pace on this issue. Turning to the whole centre-right, however, I must also remember what the centre-right has supported in the campaign on self-defense. The government pact between the League and the 5 Stars is important, but I think the pact that was made with the Italians during the election campaign is even more important. If we appear what was the proposal of the League, but also of the whole center-right, with the measure under consideration, we realize that there are some shadow areas that we do not like and we absolutely cannot share and that still leave too much discretion to the judges. There are parts that do not sanction the principle that defense is always legitimate and that, if anyone enters my house, I am free to put everything into place to defend myself. This is not very clear in the measure we are discussing today. Brothers of Italy support this measure because - as I said before - it still represents a change of pace. However, once again, it seems to us a compromise, certainly on the downside, between the League and the Movimento 5 Stars. Too much discretion left to the judges, of which I have already spoken, runs the risk of frustrating the principle, for us sacrosanct, for which defense is always legitimate. That is precisely why we have tabled a number of amendments, which we will then present, in order to remove all shadow areas and put the principle that defence is always legitimate in the centre. I think we have a great opportunity today. Each of us - every politician and every party - who comes to the citizens in the electoral campaign with proposals, must then be consequential, in the sense that the words must then follow the facts. It is precisely for this reason that I would like to appeal to the whole centre-right - to Forza Italia and the League - to vote in favour of the amendments tabled by Brothers of Italy, because we do nothing but bring the measure back to the original proposal of the right and also of the League presented in the electoral campaign. I'm counting on that. Today there is a great deal of attention on the part of the citizens, who - as I said at the beginning of my speech - would like a more present state, who would not only show up to vex them during the day (I think of businesses, craftsmen, entrepreneurs and traders) and disappears at night, but is able to give them what is a right, namely security. Since this, unfortunately, is not there today and since it seems to me that the situation is getting much worse, Brothers of Italy has tabled amendments aimed at bringing the text back to the original proposal on self-defense. In this way we can tell citizens that defence is always legitimate. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u80	Senator Ortis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, the measure on self-defense finally arrives today in the House of Palazzo Madama, after numerous hearings and an in-depth discussion among colleagues of the Commission Justice. The hearings and discussions were due to the delicacy of the subject, which could only require a thoughtful examination of the matter. The challenge was to take on and make as many views as possible on the subject to balance them, finally, in a balanced and reasonable bill. The bet - in my opinion - was won. Many critical aspects of the original legislative proposals have been adequately tempered in the drafting of the unified text, thus receiving the right and timely comments of the legal auditors in the Commission. The reform does not affect any fundamental principle of the law, but it introduces the necessary changes on a subject that concerns the security of citizens. The renewed standardization on self-defense is aimed at giving greater guarantees to the attacker, especially in court and judicial fringes. This legislative initiative is not promoting a Hobbesian idea, inciting the use of weapons for offensive purposes. In this respect, I would like to point out that the measure under consideration does not concern arms, as it is instrumentally suggested, nor are security tasks delegated to the private citizen which are not his responsibility. More simply, those who will be attacked in the tranquillity of their own hearth or where they work, in order to guarantee a future to themselves and to their family, will see adequately recognized some safeguards that the previous regulatory apparatus did not assure them. I am thinking first of all of the rightful exemption from costs and charges of justice; a principle of common sense on the basis of which it will be envisaged to remove from court costs those who, after having been the victim of a criminal act, are, in any case, legally in the shoes of the suspect and are finally acquitted. Who, with all the difficulties of the case, due to the fact that we are in a society that uses the right and not the violence for the resolution of conflicts, still manages to neutralize an attack by one or more malicious people, who would have seriously endangered the safety of their property and especially of their loved ones, will no longer have to suffer existential damage, due to the persistence of judicial delays and the lack of legal legal aid, extended by the rule in question to all cases in which the defense is legitimate. With this reform proposal we want to respond to the deep need for security in the country. It is hardly appropriate to recall that the Senate Act 5 was a bill of popular initiative, in support of which two million citizens had signed it. This measure - as explained in the explanatory report - wanted to be a stronger deterrent to criminals dedicated to robberies and robberies in private homes. It is for this reason that, in parallel with the introduction of devices to protect the attacker, the sanctioning system for the attacker has also been tightened, increasing the fines and prison sentences. It is clear - as we have been told - that the criminal is not afraid of the penalty; but this reassures the citizen, who has the tranquillity that those who attack him will have a higher penalty. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, with this legislative intervention we want only to strengthen the right to the protection of our home and of our own person and we do this precisely by strengthening the presence of the State, finally placing it alongside Italians so far not sufficiently protected, also due to the chronic lack of personnel in the Forces of the Order, to which this Government is remedying. Let us be clear: we must not distort the real objective of this text. None of us - as has always been said in an instrumental way several times - wants to favour the far west, because that is not what this is about. What we are going to vote on is a text which excludes the criminality of those who act to protect their own safety or that of their own family, of those who act in a state of fear and are therefore in a state of perceived danger, without being able to realize, if not in hindsight, whether their reaction has been proportionate to the risk actually taking place. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u82	He is enrolled to speak Senator Bishops. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u83	Mr President, the proposal before us, which I hear is right-wing or left-wing, is simply a reform of common sense. Let's start with the reaction, which is the key term. I put myself in the shoes - because it has to be done - of those who suddenly see someone entering the house, you see maybe attacked by someone and at that moment, who are fringes of a second, you have to decide whether to defend yourself and your family or what else to do. The law does not impose a reaction, but says that, when you react, this is always legitimate. For eight years I've been a public security officer and I've been in situations where I've had to react. When I reacted, I was prepared and trained; in some moments I decided not to react. It's really a few cents of a second when you decide whether to react and defend your family or not. And this happens to prepared people, who wear a uniform, who in seconds have to make decisions. Imagine what can happen in a family that gets attacked at 2:00 or 3:00 in the morning, but also during the day. I know that in this House the self-defense was even presented by day and night: for us there is always, it is not a matter of time. With this vote we decide whether to stand on the victim's side or on the assailant's side. With the vote we decide whether to put ourselves in the shoes of those who, then, for years, have to defend themselves. From what? Why did you defend your family against a claim for damages made by those who entered your home and tried to steal or do violence? Am I even supposed to make up for the damage to those people? It is a reform of common sense, which absolutely does not create the far west. Perhaps those who say this live in another world, truly in another world. We say that, when one is attacked, the defense is always legitimate. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u84	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u85	Mr President, I want to start immediately with a claim of birth: self-defense is a historic battle of Brothers of Italy - as has already been mentioned - which I would like to reiterate because it has been the subject of a proposal for a law presented already in the last parliamentary term and re-presented at the beginning of this parliamentary term. The problem isn't birthright. The problem is to respond to a perceived need in the country. Brothers of Italy, also with respect to the decree-law on security and immigration, which we will discuss in the near future, has tabled amendments, because it believes that within that package there is a right of citizenship also for legitimate defence. The regulatory framework - as has been mentioned - clearly establishes the scope for any consideration on self-defense. The institute of self-defense is one of the causes of justification of the crime and finds its foundation in that need of self-protection of the person, in the absence, of course, of ordinary protection. The relevant discipline, therefore, is contained in Article 52 of the Criminal Code and establishes the existence of a right to protect, own and others, the need for defence, the topicality of danger, the injustice of offense, the relationship of proportion between defence and offense. The above article also includes, in the following paragraphs, the so-called "domicile self-defense," on which I will return specifically, also defined as an enlarged self-defense, linked to the violation of domicile, and therefore to that right - the term of the right returns - to self-protection in a private domicile. Beyond the regulatory framework - and we could continue - I would like to stress one aspect that is not regulatory, but is no less important, namely the perception of security in the everyday lives of citizens. The legislator must respond to concrete needs, but also to the need for security. What we are talking about today is an urgency of public opinion. Looking at this House does not seem to be the case, but it is. I thank those who are present and I am sorry for those who are not there, but I imagined a massive participation, a debate felt, because we are talking about something that, outside of here, is felt on the skin of people and their families. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Let us therefore return to the perception of safety, on which we must not speculate. There is no need, because the data tell everything with plastic evidence and it is not the data that we provide; ISTAT did so, in a research presented in 2018, related to the 2015-2016 biennium, dedicated to the perception of safety. I will mention only two of the indicators, which relate to the concern to suffer crime and the perception of degradation in the areas in which we live. Well, bad: 60.2% of citizens are very or fairly concerned about house theft and 33.9% feel that they are living in an area at risk of crime and think that they are very or enough. This figure is definitely on the rise compared to the previous survey made by ISTAT, with a rise of more than 11.9 percentage points Then, perhaps, the legislator to this has to look when he gets to work. In the government contract there is - and that is why we are discussing it - the game of self-defense and - as has already been announced - we will vote in favour, but our vote in favour is also the result of having followed the work in the Commission; it is mainly the result of an effort to amend the text issued by the Justice Commission. We would like to strengthen it with our amendments, and I will also give some examples. There are elements of weakness in the text. In particular, our amendments refer to that margin of discretion reserved for the judge, which risks frustrating the legislative amendment itself. Defence is a right, and that is why we always believe it to be legitimate, but I would like to say something more: it is a principle, it is a right and it is also a duty. Brothers of Italy clearly defends the general principle of self-defense, which is a cause of justification - as we have said - from the regulatory point of view, but above all stresses that self-defense is not only a general principle, but is a right, and is a natural right. And it is especially so when you have to resort to it in cases where your home is violated and your own or family's life is put at risk. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] It is not necessary to give the burden to those who are victims to weigh, in an extraordinary and very particular case, the circumstances and the manner in which the threat occurs. This is absurd and offensive to the victim. Again and again: we consider it a right - but also a duty - because, if I am in my home and people enter, at that moment I feel the duty to defend those who are in my home, my son, a cohabitant of mine; I feel I must defend anyone from a threat without having to weigh it. Colleagues, there is weakness in this text, albeit overall positive. We have said that there is a weakness in the excessive margin of discretion for the judge. There is still an excess, always with respect to discretion, when the proportionality of the defence is specified: there is when there is no dexistence and there is danger of aggression. Well, for us, it's just the opposite. We want to reverse this concept, and we do so through an amendment. We want to overturn the concept because we do not want to evaluate the existence, but to focus on the objective and indisputable fact that there is a danger of aggression, that we do not have to stay with the budget to know how much and how they will attack me. They're just attacking me. This is the point from which to start further reflection. Ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's text also has another element of weakness: it does not consider it as a place where we can legitimately defend the proximity of the home or the place of work; therefore, basically, we can defend ourselves only in our own home. This is also a fragile element: for us, defence - as I have tried to explain - is always legitimate when, of course, a threatening intent is in place. Subject of our amendment, which we hope will be accepted - and it is not trivial, attention! - is that a serious disturbance is not necessary, as the text proposes. A disturbance is enough. Who determines the seriousness of the disturbance if they come into my house and threaten me and my family? Attention, then, because the sense of gravity of the disturbance becomes too much dissonable and at the excessive discretion of the judge. In short, the recognition of self-defense cannot become a rebus, but there must be a clear and defined parameter; and the clear and defined parameters have been lacking. Unfortunately, the principle of absolute self-defense that we support is violated: principle, right and duty. The defence on the part of the citizen is always legitimate, also in order to put an end to those judicial ordeals that the victims have had to suffer, people who have passed from victims to executioners, people - victims - who have gone to trial. Unfortunately there are many cases: it has been remembered that of Mario Cattaneo, but there are other cases, such as that of Graziano Stacchio, that of Rodolfo Corazza and Francesco Sicignano. I also want to say that in most cases, where the charges involved an excess of self-defense, after an ordeal, the trials resolved with a filing. Maybe that means something. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Rauti. RAUTI (FdI). You're right, President, and I apologize. I'll finish right away. Why subject a victim to a judicial ordeal and then acknowledge his innocence? No one has ever repaid the moral and material damage to that person and his family. Even by virtue of this we must prevent and we must recognize to legitimate defense the absolute principle: defence is always legitimate. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u86	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u87	Mr President, the reform of Article 52 of the 2006 penal code, wanted by Forza Italia, received a series of criticisms as soon as it was adopted, because it was believed that that formulation, i.e. that there is always the proportion between offense and defence, would - according to the doctrine - lead not to a certainty, but to an enlargement of the hypotheses of legitimate defence. The jurisprudence of the following years has denied the doctrine, because - despite the clear indication of Article 52 - it has come to an interpretation such that everything has remained unchanged. What is the underlying problem that has always been felt in the matter of self-defense? If a subject is forced to defend himself from an aggression, the collective opinion would want there to be an immediate investigation, already in the phase of preliminary investigations, of the recurrence of those presuppositions of self-defense and ask for the dismissal. On the other hand, we have seen the necessary integration in the debate on several occasions. What is the underlying problem? You see, Undersecretary, people do not accept something that I do not accept either: when the recurrence of those conditions justifying self-defense is invoked, it should be the prosecutor who proves the accusation, who proves that those conditions do not exist. Instead - as you all know - with self-defense and other causes of justification, there is a reversal of the burden of proof: the one who has been attacked is forced to prove that self-defense exists. It has now been attempted with this bill to make some corrections. I appreciated the rapporteur's attempt, which he always adds, but it does not change much, because he says: dear jurisprudence, using the adverb "always" I want to strengthen the idea that had been expressed in 2006. The rapporteur, we have thought of resolving this with the amendment on the right of defence, because this is automatic, even though we say that the right of defence is always recognized to those who fall within the cases referred to in Article 614 of the Criminal Code, repeating its formula; and so, in the third paragraph, the defence is always presumed proportionate. We too had expressed the same indication as the adverb "always," but in a framework of right of defence, a right of which Nordio spoke for the first time, a few years ago, in relation to the causes of justification, precisely in order to satisfy, in the reform of the penal code, that deficiency which concerns the burden of proof. We will discuss the amendments when they are examined, but I regret to stress one aspect, which I hope will be corrected, because there is a fundamental error: we have listened to the doctrine - as the rapporteur has mentioned - and many university teachers, experts and professionals of criminal law, who, in order to be consistent with the criticisms they had raised in 2006, invited us to include in Article 55 of the penal code, relating to excessive manslaughter, hypotheses of clear and precise legitimate defence. I have to say to the rapporteur that I have taken inspiration from this, inserting a second paragraph in Article 55, which states that a specific behaviour of self-defense is not punishable - and therefore liceity. I am convinced that - and I have tabled an amendment to this effect - the whole text suggested - and, indeed, requested by some of the Commissioners and not by myself - it would be appropriate to take up again - and I have tabled an amendment to this effect - the whole text suggested - and indeed, it would be requested by some of the Commissioners, and not by myself - or an amendment which would take account of that indication. I think it is necessary to do that integration, but even if it is the rapporteur's text, there is a second problem. It is true that the rapporteur's text - rightly, therefore - is included in the article on excessive manslaughter, but, in fact, it is a hypothesis of self-defense provided for by law. This hypothesis cannot be linked to any sanction of compensation, neither criminal nor civil, and does not say who speaks to you, but anyone who listens to you who has a minimum of knowledge of the law; and I am surprised that the Government, hearing also the Legislative Office, has not asked the rapporteur to change that aspect, because, when it is said that it is a clear hypothesis of self-defense, it is clear that no sanction, neither criminal nor civil, of compensation can be linked to that behaviour. Article 2044 of the Civil Code, which has always governed the rule on self-defense, states that the person who acted in self-defense cannot be liable for any damage or consequences of his action. Therefore, at the time of the amendment of Article 2044 of the Civil Code, a second paragraph of the pleonastic paragraph is inserted and it is evident when it is said that, in the cases referred to in the second, third and fourth paragraphs of Article 52, there is self-defense. When we talk about self-defense in the first paragraph, that is, the current text of Article 2044, it is clear that we refer to all legitimate hypotheses of self-defense. The third paragraph, which deals with compensation, cannot be shared. At a time when it is said that the victim, the person who has suffered the violation of his privacy, of his own affections, of his own way of being, of his own home with his family and with his children, despite having legitimately reacted, must answer for compensation for the damages brought by the aggressor, do you realize that something is said that, not only is contrary to a rule of law, but to the common feeling? All this is contrary to any rule of law; I do not know what this proposal came from. I have heard some of the colleagues from the 5 Star Movement and the League who agree that, from a technical legal point of view, this is a mistake. I therefore believe that serious consideration must be given before we get to a vote that can perhaps put a reality: be careful, if we do not make clear rules, people do not have the perception of effective protection of collective security. [[Applause from Senators Dal Mas and Fantetti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u88	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u89	Mr President, in reflecting on this measure, I was wondering whether, in the face of the legitimate and justified request for security from the citizens, this bill really serves to emphasize the issue of self-defense. Is this really what we need to do to give citizens more security? Colleagues, we are emphasizing an issue in a historical phase in which for years robberies and murders have been reduced, giving priority to a topic that is certainly neither priority nor central, if we really want to continue the fight against illegality. I have heard that there are cases - certainly true - of people who have come to find themselves in difficult conditions, who have defended themselves, who have suffered hardships, who have felt left alone by the State when they exercised self-defense. All right, all true, but the problem is that we're talking about seven trials in 2015 for abuse of self-defense and four trials in 2016 for self-defense: we're talking about this and we need to know what we're talking about. Let's talk about this, not a mass phenomenon. Then, as a colleague also said a moment ago, I think that people who suffer injustices should not be left alone, that it is also right to think about legislation to ensure that no one is wronged. I do not want to underestimate, so much so that it seems to me that in the Commission too our Group has supported the need to guarantee the procedural costs to those who have suffered a trial for defending themselves and being acquitted. You are addressing this issue, however, by giving wrong messages, not true. I have also heard it in this House - and I call on you to look into it - that there is some sort of decriminalisation, that there will be no more trials, either in civil or in criminal matters. That is not what this provision does. It's not like that, it's just not like that. The prosecution is mandatory, the judges will intervene, as it is right that it is, whenever there is a matter of blood. I have the impression that you are agitating this issue regardless of reality and regardless of context. It is a real issue, but it is part of a context that is very different from what you describe. I want to say that with this reasoning there is a risk of harm, of passing on a harmful message that Parliament is making a law that says to citizens, beyond the merit, because this is being communicated, that they must defend themselves, because the State is not able to guarantee security. The insistence by which a sort of symbolic and decisive value is attributed to this provision is wrong. To say that we defend ourselves because the only thing the state can do and let go is wrong. Along with the recent decree, what doubles the models of weapons that you can buy, including military weapons, and the number of bullets that you can hold, creates a mix: you are running towards a precise model. I do not know what far west is and I do not care, but we are running towards a model that was born like this: the State is not able to defend them and therefore the citizens defend themselves and the State allows to have any kind of weapon to defend themselves. And we come to this model, that is to say to the American model, a model that - it must be known - involves ten times the killed deaths that exist in all the rest of the OECD countries. This is the model that, if you continue to emphasize in this way the theme of self-defense, we risk to reproduce. These measures, in fact, do not give any more security. They serve more to emphasize a theme that certainly exists, to ride the fears but not to make the citizens safer. Why should someone be safer or feel safer, if you explain to him that he has to defend himself because the state is unable to do so? Because it should feel safer - and we will discuss it in the so-called security decree - when it realizes that the state tells it that it promotes self-defense because it cares about its security and then, in the security decree, there is no rule that guarantees control of the territory, there is no euro for video surveillance. And don't take credit for the recruitment of the law enforcement forces, because of those 10,000 assumptions you tell us, 7,500 decided them and financed them from the previous government, about things we didn't do, so we're not here to lecture without doing anything in the last legislature. Look, the current law, the one you're changing, doesn't prohibit the defense of people and property. This is not the point, this is not what we are questioning, nor are we questioning the recognition of the conditions of discomfort and disturbance that live those who are attacked and those who see their safety, their property and that of their loved ones threatened. We recognise this, but we think that the state should be close to its citizens before they are put in the need to defend themselves. The state must stand on the side of the victims later and punish the guilty, not promote the do-it-yourself defense. Here, you do this. That's what we're worried about. You speak of self-defense, but there are no measures, even in the security decree-law, that serve to guarantee more security to citizens on the territory. This measure is not intended to make the citizens feel safer; indeed, this measure no longer gives security to the citizens, but it is a surrender of the State, which admits its inability. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u90	Senator Pazzaglini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u91	Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues: finally. Finally, we are debating a measure in this House which is wanted by the vast majority of citizens. Finally, we are debating a measure which, unlike what has just been said, does not tend to turn everyone into sheriffs who will be buying weapons for personal defense or for who knows what kind of aggression. But it is only a measure that will finally put an end to certain distortions of our order. What is contained in the norm has been well explained by those who preceded me, by colleagues of the League, by some colleagues of Brothers of Italy and of Forza Italia, so I want to use my time to explain why I claim that this provision is wanted by most of those who live in this beautiful nation of ours. Those who manage to defend themselves against aggression, those who manage to prevent their families, their homes, from suffering tragic consequences from those who, with malavitous intent, at night, while intimacy with their wives, while resting, while trying to enjoy the presence of their children, are threatened by these intrusions, are not in a position to reflect, evaluate and understand what kind of violence they might suffer. It is a person who instincts to react to what is certainly an unjust attack and that will always be an unjust attack. This is why in the collective scenario these subjects are transformed into heroes of our time; they become hero of the next door who, unjustly assaulted, manages to defend the own safety and of his family alone. If there is a dream that does not abandon any of us in growth it is to be in the condition to do this in case there is need. This is what we are trying to introduce into our legal system: the principle that, if someone is attacked at home or in his own workplace, his defence is always legitimate. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Our citizens are outraged when they feel that, following the attacks in Modena, Venice, Milan and many other parts of Italy, the citizen is attacked what is condemned, sentenced to compensation for damages, sentenced in criminal proceedings, sentenced in civil court because maybe his dog did only and exclusively what the instinct told him: defend his family. Despite what, to the common sense of the most, would seem a obvious evidence, today those in this situation are often forced to succumb. Therefore, after the attack suffered by the criminal, by the criminal who illegally entered his home, this person also suffers the attack of the State. We want this to end; we want those who are in a position to protect themselves should not find themselves in a position to protect themselves by legal means. Often, when trying to strengthen a position, reference is made to our Constitution. Personally, I believe it is outdated, the result of a time that is no longer and that must be adapted to our present peculiarities, but I am also convinced that it contains the fundamental principles of our order, the fundamental principles of our legislative action. I therefore recall that our Constitution places the work on Article 1, saying that ours is a democratic Republic based on work, and it points out that the family is the founding aggregate of our entire community. That is why the League believes that those who defend their families, those who defend their places of work, must also be protected with a cover that comes from the Constitution itself, and that is why I believe that those who defend themselves must be put in a position to always be able to claim that they have acted legitimately. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u92	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that this issue is affected by a strong emotion in public opinion. There is no doubt that the number of concrete cases in which the issue of self-defense emerges is not very high. However, there are striking cases in which judicial events have invested citizens who have only, in fact, exercised a right to defence, sometimes on behalf of third parties: I have known so many of these people and I remember the case of Graziano Stacchio, the manager of the petrol pump, in Veneto, in which case the robbery involved a neighbouring shop and he intervened to cut off a criminal act and even serious dangers. Judging vice-prisoners who drag along in time and media attention have meant that the need for self-defense and legal protection is considered by many to be an urgent issue to be addressed. In this sense, Forza Italia, at the end of the last legislature, had activated a reform process in this area, well aware that the legislation of 2006, in force, was approved and wanted by the center-right. Why have we felt, after years, the need for a change? Because the judicial events, the concrete cases and the further sufferings of citizens who defended themselves, their family, their home, their shop or the neighbor attacked have convinced us that the interpretation that was given in court made the current rule not sufficient. We have therefore decided, with these proposals, to remove ambiguities, uncertainties and penalties to the detriment of those who have defended themselves. It was not in time, as there were no political numbers and conditions, in the final of the last parliamentary term, to approve the bill. At the beginning of this legislature, our Group here in the Senate, through President Bernini, Senator Caliendo, myself and Senator Mallegni, and, in the House, with the leader, Mr Gelmini, has reactivated a legislative process that today seems to arrive, at least here at the Senate, to completion. We, however, have doubts about the current activity. We are in favour - and I would like to say this quite clearly - of the strengthening of the rules, which we have made and which need to be updated. The law is a living matter, the interpretations and decisions of the judges determine an assessment and we have convinced ourselves of the need to better define the self-defense. The text, as other colleagues have already said, starting with Senator Caliendo, reveals some weaknesses. I say to my colleagues in favour, like us, of this legislation, that we believe that the right to self-defense must be clearly and unequivocally affirmed. It is a fundamental right of citizens. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] We don't dream of gunmen being shot behind the windows at the first passing by by accident. That is not the theme. We believe that guarantees must remain in the possession of arms and in the circulation of arms. We also read of the facts of madness, which, moreover, this law would not simplify, like that of days ago, the last case, of a man who in Tuscany killed two neighbors, at least according to the newspapers, for non-existent reasons and, even more, abject; not that there are ever reasons to commit murders, but in that case it was condominium work and noise, crazy things. We are also convinced that arms must always be allowed to circulate, because it is good that people who are caught up in anger do not have lethal instruments at their disposal. We were the first, for example, to propose the introduction of the police force taser, with a bill presented to the Chamber of Deputies by Gregorio Fontana, of the Forza Italia Group and now an experiment has begun. The Taser emits electrical impulses and therefore also for the Forces of Order, where they are entitled to legitimately use force (who more than them?), is provided an instrument of that type, which does not result in irreparable situations as a firearms can cause. We do not therefore want the far west, but a good right. The law does not fully satisfy us, because it does not sufficiently guarantee this right. We have therefore tabled amendments which we will support and which we also call on colleagues from other groups, such as the League, to continue to consider in this House to approve them, because we want to eliminate any interpretative doubts. The investigation must be done, there is no doubt. One cannot imagine a scenario for which if there are deadly consequences and there is a dead person, no one makes a verification; there is, however, way and way of doing the verification, there are legal principles, there are wider possibilities of guarantee. We will continue to support our amendments that protect the person in violation of his or her domicile, the trader in violation of his or her fields of activity and we believe that the right to self-defense - I repeat once again - is better marked by the proposals of law that the Members of Forza Italia have made to the House and the Senate and by the amendments that we propose to the Assembly at this point. We understand that there are compromises, but I address the colleagues of the League - I say this in positive and positive terms - to say that it is on this ground that you record the heterogeneity of a government alliance that signed a contract, but that then saw many in the Movimento 5 Star Group or accept the withdrawal of amendments or insist on proposals, because there is legitimately a different view of things, such as security and immigration. This discussion brings out the natural harmony that this country must recover within the framework of the Centre on priority issues. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Security, strengthening the role of police forces, protecting the citizen in the face of the issue of self-defense. It is not a case of mediating this issue has become more relevant in proportion to the number of cases that have occurred. When we read the chronicles of Lanciano, the robbed house and the tortures and tortures inflicted on that family or other episodes, the drama of those cases tells us that the citizen must guarantee it by the state. I never want to imagine a future in which I must defend myself in my home with weapons that I have never personally possessed, possessed and do not want to use; however, the citizen, in addition to the State guarantee, must also have the guarantee of the law, if he were to act dramatically independently. For this reason, the debate is important: for the social perception, for the situation of impotence in which many have felt themselves and because, sometimes, those who suffer the small arrogance of what is improperly called microcriminality feel exposed even to more serious crimes and therefore get involved with those who have suffered mortal assaults or robberies. So we are not stirring a fetish to gather consensus; we want to give an answer to a concern felt by the country. Forza Italia is a party that has at heart the guarantees of the law, which holds to the guarantees of the law, so certainly, even with the amending proposals that we make, we do not eliminate the necessary controls. There has been reference to the hearings and, for example, Dr Nordio, who today, for reasons of age, no longer plays a role of jurisdiction, in the hearing he has made and in the speeches he has produced in recent years has shared the principle of the right to self-defense and we have made amending proposals which also take account of this legal and doctrinal debate. We do not want to find ourselves with ambiguous, insufficient texts, the result of too many mediations between those who, like the groups who are here with us, share our position, and other groups, who do not share it, for reasons that I do not agree with and do not understand, but we are in a free Parliament and everyone can decide which positions to hold. We are on the side of the families, the citizens, the traders attacked and that many times have been exposed to the public, to the risk of retaliation even of the family members of criminals who may have marked a reaction on their finger. That is why we insist on the positive use of this passage in this House, in order to seize from our amendments the possibility of improving this legislative text. This is also for a political reflection: on these primary issues, such as the fight against illegal immigration and the support for the police force - which we will talk about - that there is no security decree, because the billion euros that had been announced has already become half a billion, it has halved, and it is not only for the police forces, but also for the magistrates and the public employment. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We want that money, because before the private self-defense of the citizens there must be the defence of the state, but we will talk about this when we discuss, in the next few hours, that decree-law, which we want stronger, more serious, more robust, in defence of the citizens. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u94	Senator Vono is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u95	Mr President, senators, senators, members of the Government, the provisions on self-defense refer in particular to Article 52 of the Criminal Code, which, as amended by Law No 59 of 2006, adds a legal presumption of proportion between defence and offense, in cases of trespassing and in the presence of the danger of physical aggression, which according to the most recent doctrine, must exist between the evil threatened and that which would be inflicted. However, in the matter of self-defense we are called to consider and compare the attitude that the legislator is obliged to have in the presence of the protection of the guarantees of the attacker and the aggressor. It could not be otherwise in a civil and legal state, because precisely in compliance with our Constitution, the fundamental charter of rights, even the person who voluntarily or under other circumstances places himself in a condition contrary to the law must continue to enjoy certain rights and guarantees, so that he does not end up in a unilateral abuse of defence, clearly no longer legitimate. The law in question provides for a wider recognition of the right to self-defense, for the protection of one's own and others' safety and for one's own property or others and, in the part in which it regulates the legitimate home or housing defense, with the addition of the adverb "always" introduces an absolute presumption of the proportionality relationship between offense and defence, which thus leaves open the necessary margin of discretion at the end of an investigation. It is clearly sanctioned the sacrosanct right to self-protection in the face of those attitudes that occurred within a home, even if only manifestly threatening, put in place by the use of weapons or other means of physical coercion, allowing the reaction of the attacker to intervene, without waiting for the threat to be translated into action and actually realized, precisely to interrupt violent actions before irreparable damage is caused. I believe that the rules introduced by the draft law under consideration have, in spite of what one might think, especially for the purposes of a policy of narrow horizons, a highly preventive aspect, in view of the envisaged case of the non-perpetuality of the person who commits the event in conditions of handicapped defense or serious disturbance, arising precisely from the present situation of danger. Indeed, this rule is of prevention, it must act as deterrent and induce the aggressor to reflect carefully, before putting in place the criminal actions, on the fact that the reaction of defense by the eventual victim, in certain cases established by the law, therefore guarantee also for the person responsible for the aggressions, even if very serious, from now on is allowed by the law. Therefore the victim, in a state of grave disturbance which, in addition to the fear of the judicial consequences of a reasonable act of defence, before forced her into a condition of unarmed submission to the will of the aggressor himself, can legitimately counter to the aggression an adequate defence reaction. They always fall within the preventive scope, because they aim to stop any crime, the tightening of sanctions for offences of trespassing, theft at home and theft with tearing and robbery, with a view to further tightening of penalties for aggravated assumptions. The provisions on the costs of justice are also important, with the provision for the extension of legal aid, according to which the State will be able to obtain support with regard to legal expenses, insisting on the conditions of the right reaction and, therefore, are ordered to dismiss, dismiss or not to proceed. The forecast is part of a greater guarantee for those who act in the legitimacy of the defence. With the new provisions it is therefore possible to recognize the freedom of everyone to defend, protect and safeguard against an unjust aggression his own dignity, understood as an opportunity to defend, protect and safeguard his own safety or that of others, his own or other property, without being in a position to have to succumb, even at the cost of his own life or that of his family, for fear of suffering the judicial and criminal consequences very often unfair. It is beyond doubt that up to now, despite the 2006 reform, the victim has often been such against not only the aggressor, but, in the case of reaction, also the so-called unjust justice, both civil and criminal, reporting, as has often happened, even damages to compensate, convictions and penalties to be served, including imprisonment, with serious damage not only economic, but above all in terms of psychological devastation for himself and his family. On the one hand, however, it may be thought that the law cannot allow the indiscriminate use of force and weapons from any part of it, on the other hand, it is equally legitimate that one cannot live in fear and terror of not being able to defend the own safety and of his family within his own home or professional, commercial or entrepreneurial activity. I believe, however, that, beyond the laws, it is always necessary to use the necessary caution to restore every condition of guarantee and civilization, remaining inescapable that for a correct application of every legal provision it is always appropriate to make use of a fair dose of common sense that must never be lacking in the legitimate exercise of the rights of everyone. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u96	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u97	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to repeat briefly, particularly as regards the aspects of minority relations. I heard Senator Grasso and Senator Cucca explain what they believe are the problems contained in the measure under consideration. I heard shouting at the concept of State: the State cannot delegate. I also heard fearing the elimination of a judge's discretion. I am starting from this point of view: there is absolutely no intention of eliminating discretion in the absolute sense, but there is certainly a desire to bring clarity to our rules. This is the point of the operation to amend Article 52 of the Criminal Code. (The sitting was suspended at 13.59 p.m. and resumed at 13.59 p.m.) On this issue we have technical audits and legal practitioners. Everyone has told us that Article 52 of the Criminal Code is also fundamental with regard to our constitutional principles, but interpretation and application were difficult even after the amendment introduced in 2006. In this case, we have fixed it. That's the point of the surgery. The system that derives from these observations, in my opinion, concerns an old approach, which is still present in our code, of the idea of State and we find it in Article 52 of our penal code, which implies, in turn, the majestic precept of the ethical state: I am the one who is, I decide when and how to punish, I can only say to the citizen: up here and no further. Faced with this somewhat invasive solemnity of the interpreter, all that remains is to struggle over the limits of self-defense, almost as a graceful sovereign concession of a conditional impunity for a necessary conduct. In our view, instead, we must start from a different, more liberal approach, because, precisely in its theoretical root, the State is not a confessional entity, it must not redeem anyone, nor aspire to the affirmation of a secular thought or earthly paradise. It, the State, is a pact between citizens and with citizens, who owe it the protection of its inalienable natural rights (life, safety, property). This devolution is not unconditional and irreversible, it is not a blank bill: if the State is defaulting, the person, as an ethical protagonist also in the political scene, has the right to take them back. Thus set, the whole dialectical process changes the register, according to the different postulates: no longer the limits imposed by the State on the individual, but those imposed by the citizen on the State; therefore, it is no longer an essential question as far as the attacker can react, but the other, that is, as far as the State can sanction. To be even clearer: what right does the State have to punish the reaction to a crime that it - State - has failed to prevent? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Can the State prosecute a citizen who is the victim of the collective inability to prevent crime, the victim of his contractual non-compliance? That's the meaning of the project. With regard to the work that has been done, we have patiently achieved it, after a series of meetings and reflections, not only on Article 52, but also on Article 55 of the penal code and on many other aspects that have affected the centre of the citizen, justice towards decent citizens, those who defend themselves and who are left alone. The state, since tomorrow, since this bill will be voted and will be in force, will no longer be the enemy of the citizen and the criminal will have to compensate, he, for the damage done to the citizen for good. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] . PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Grasso.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u98	Mr President, I did not intend to reply, but I am forced to do so because in some speeches it was intended to overshadow that I was trying to defend the thieves, the robbers, the criminals, rather than the families and, therefore, the inviolability of the domestic domicile. Absolutely not. I try to defend the rule of law, therefore the legality of a rule of law. As I anticipated, the discipline of self-defense has recently been innovative, with Law No 59 of 2006, as a result of which two new paragraphs have been added to extend the limits and regulate the exercise of self-protection in the private home, in other places of private residence and in places where a commercial, professional and entrepreneurial activity is exercised. The 2006 amendment represents a special and autonomous hypothesis: the so-called legitimate home defense already in place, therefore, also for business and business activities. It is clear that the inspiring ratio was to avoid that those who reacted to the aggression perpetrated at home or in the shop, in the presence of certain conditions of legality and recognition of the proportionality of the reaction can be called to respond to such acts, as well - in the case of error on the use of means or the end - of manslaughter in legitimate defense. A reform in this sense, therefore, I think is absolutely not necessary; the system works and the numbers that have been drawn up - by the Ministry of Justice first and by the Department of Studies of the Senate then - demonstrate this: in four years ten cases dealt with at the debate. Even fewer cases dealt with by the gip or the gup. Moreover, since someone has said that such data lack because those of the prosecutor are missing, let us not forget that no procedure can be concluded by the public prosecutor alone, but there is always a judge, even in the case of filing, who issues a filing decree. So, those cases are covered, too. In other words, in our country they have no right to citizenship, neither the vengeance nor the punitive power - which can even lead to a death penalty - attributed to the citizen in a way devoid of any control of legality and legitimacy. The serious damage, in addition to the regulatory level, is cultural damage. Your propaganda is making people believe that it will be permissible to shoot at home anyway and everywhere, with inevitable consequences. We know that there is no specific rule on arms; we know that, but that is not the point. We predict that this discipline will lead to an increase of weapons in circulation in our country for the need to defend itself. No one has said that there are specific rules on arms in the reform, but more weapons no longer mean security: this is the concept we want to make pass, because the weapon itself is already an object that can generate violence. The case of Lanciano has been cited. Well, Lanciano's victim said it was good not to have a weapon at that time because if they had it they would probably have been killed in the confrontation between aggressive reaction and how much it could determine. We are well aware that weapons increase the possibility of accidents of all kinds, at a time when crime has been decreasing for years - the data have been processed -. Someone said to put us in the condition of someone who suffers an assault in the house. I answer: put yourself also in the conditions of danger that can determine this cultural drift. Think of a son who comes home at night and, having forgotten his keys, tries to open a window or tinker on the door, and the father, who has the gun on his bedside table, tries to defend himself from an alleged assault. That conduct would be a much worse sentence than any manslaughter procedure or any procedure that lasts even seven years. Because this is what the victims represented us: the length of the proceedings, the problem of the press that deals with them. But how can this be avoided? This bill will certainly not prevent it. Someone said I could ask the victims questions. Meanwhile, the respect of the victims required not to ask questions, but I listened very well to everything they said. Well, the victims spoke of predatory assaults and armed robbery, but they also said that they did not ask for do-it-yourself justice, let alone an incentive for the use of licensed weapons to kill, but rather the shorter term of the trial: this concerns the problem of secular justice and the times of our trials. Instead, they called for solutions for prevention, land control and greater conflict on the part of police forces, which reduce - yes - the risks to the safety of citizens both at home and outside the home. In particular, the victims, represented by the associations of tobacconists, petrol stations, pharmacists and jewelers, called for a direct collaboration with the Forces of Order, through protocols of understanding that also cover the training to be put in place in the case of danger. Everyone has said how in the protocols of understanding tactics of control of the situation are suggested without reactions, because these could endanger the safety of people present and extraneous. They asked for funding to implement the video surveillance of the exercises; a greater certainty of the penalty and finally, a rule that would be absolutely common sense but that nobody implements: the reduction, if not the complete elimination, of cash, through the use without expense for the operator of the electronic money. These are the demands of the victims and I repeat that the case-law is right that judges and magistrates have applied the current rules carefully. The only case where there was a conviction is that of a thief on the run, when there was no more danger and there could be no conditions for self-defense. That's the situation. With this bill instead we introduce a discipline that removes any proportionality criterion in the need to defend itself. It is enough to enter the house through violence; however, in the law it is not said whether it is a violence on things or people: even a break-in can determine that situation for which one is legitimized to a reaction - whatever it may be - that is configured as self-defense. This is the point that we do not accept, not that we can reject the thieves, the robbers and the criminals from our home: that we must and we can do it, but without eliminating any possibility of evaluating the situation in concrete terms. That's the point. Then there is Article 2, which deals with another situation that would make the excess manslaughter in self-defense in the situations of so-called disabled defence, that is, in time at night: that change that had already been foreseen in the last legislature and that mitigates the defence, so in those cases, if there are conditions that hinder public and private defence, there is not even the excess manslaughter. The most serious thing is the serious disturbance that generates the possibility of making a varied case-making of those who are more or less afraid, of those who are more or less upset, to entrust the judgment to an absolutely immeasurable and smoky data, that of subjectivity, when our penal code excludes this possibility in a complete way, in Article 90, when it says that emotional and passional states cannot exclude or decrease the depreciation. These are the conditions that we are about to approve. I therefore call to mind all Members: let us be careful in this examination of the measure and try to maintain the importance of the parliamentary function, because when we hear that this rule has been decided elsewhere and this can only pass, because the result of a contract, we must think that Parliament and the Senate cannot be humiliated by decisions that have been taken elsewhere. [[Applause from Senators De Petris and Errani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u99	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Cucca.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u100	Mr President, I shall be very brief, since Senator Grasso has already put forward a large part of the arguments that I should have dealt with, but something I believe I have a duty to say. In the meantime, I would like to reiterate one fact: with this measure, we have shown that the majority does not take into account the content of the hearings. What has emerged, in fact, is exactly the opposite of what is being decided in this House and which unfortunately, with the numbers that are there, will pass. These themes will pass but lead to situations that - allow me - will be aberrant. Today I have heard that the State has failed: it is recognition, therefore, that by this measure we think that the State must abdicate its role and we therefore entrust security to the private sector. This is a DIY security, inconceivable in a rule of law and civil life like that in which we live, where in this way we make it possible for everyone to react until they kill, for a simple introduction into the home (not necessarily by criminals). We have also proposed amendments on this subject, and we have discussed this very much in the Commission, saying that generic terminologies cannot be used where there is a risk of endangering the life of a man who might be blameless. President Grasso told you, when he set the example of a son who forgot his keys and tried to return to his house in the middle of the night and his father, who woke up suddenly, with a gun on his bedside table burns and kills him. Or when he made the example of the girl who snuck out of the house and, failing to return, tries to do so from the window; or the neighbor trying to collect something that fell into the garden. There is general talk here of violence and it is not known whether it is directed at people or things: the legal concept of violence has these two declensions, but there is no reference here to either. There has been talk of a threat to the use of weapons, but what does that mean? We have repeatedly asked - and we still ask this now - to explain to us what it means to threaten the use of weapons. It means that if one enters the house and says "I'll kill you" we are faced with a threat to the use of weapons. [[Applause from Senators Patriarch and Verducci.]] Will you let me kill you? Are you threatening to use guns when a guy comes in with a tarp covering his finger pointing like a gun? As it is generally stated, we are beginning to pass a law that will allow us to kill these people who will come to the disarmed house and this will be considered as a threat to the use of weapons. Do you think it works as a deterrent to introduce such rules? We are ruining our rule of law and I will never accept that the State abdicates to its role and functions. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] I want to say one last thing: we are not protecting the victims, because all those belonging to the most exposed categories, as I said this morning, i.e. jewellers, petrol stations or pharmacists, have asked for something else, namely greater safety. We have tried, but we will see what consideration they will have and what will happen to the amendments we have proposed to this measure, with which we call for greater security to be prepared, the Forces of Order to be strengthened and the placement of video surveillance systems to be allowed; that is what the sensitive parties asked us to do. Yet, it was said: "No, we arm them." It's not like that. They said they didn't want to arm themselves, knowing they had people in front of them who could be - and if they are armed they certainly are - ready to react, as well as being much more able to use weapons than the private, who, it is true, wants only to defend their home but with the risks I mentioned earlier. I therefore hope that, during this evening, when we are going to vote on the amendments, we will have some common sense and we will bring this measure back to the right standards which should also be imposed by the progress of all the work we have done in the Commission. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u101	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr President, but I do not intend to take any action in response.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u103	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u104	Mr President, with Amendment 1.1, at my first signature, I call for the deletion of Article 1. I have already spent a great deal of time in the minority report and in the reply. However, I would like to point out that we must be careful with this article because, once the evaluation of the proportionality between aggression and defence has been eliminated, as in the case of domestic detention already introduced in 2006, it inevitably emerges through the other fundamental requirement of the criminal defensive necessity. We must then reiterate that there is no defense of thieves, robbers or criminals, but in a rule of law, when a person dies, whether a thief or an honest man, an investigation and a trial are always necessary to rebuild the historical reality of what happened. Only then do the criminal rules come into play, after a judge has established the legality of the manner of conduct in place both as a reaction and as an assault. As for the fact that the problem is to establish the right of defence, the only right of defence is to defend itself in the process and the exercise of any right in our system must be balanced with that of other rights: our Constitution says so. There is a right to defend one's safety properly and there is a right to assess the conditions of force and violence. We must always bear in mind the Latin brocardo vim you repel lycet. For this reason, we propose the deletion of this article, because in this way the text of 2006, the so-called legitimate home defense, already existing and functioning, applied by the magistrates and extended also to commercial and entrepreneurial activities.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u105	Mr President, I shall confine myself to just two amendments, so that we do not dread colleagues further, since I have already spoken about the other amending proposals in the general debate. Amendment 1,205, first of all, refers to paragraph 1 (c) of Article 1, which refers to violence or threat to the use of weapons. The amendment seeks to replace what is written in the text in order to clarify that it must be a matter of violence to people or things and is necessary because, without it, it allows the interpreter to decide the type of violence and against whom. It is also added that in such cases self-defense is presumed and excluded the existence of the crime, even manslaughter. In fact, we must understand ourselves - this is a debate that we will then have on Article 2 - and we must not be confused. Someone told me that there is an opportunity to intervene in civil matters if there has been a decision in criminal matters of insufficient evidence or rather what was once insufficient evidence. But when acquittal is a full formula, as in the case at hand, there is no criminal or civil liability, as we shall see in Article 2. To be against such an amendment means not having understood what is written in it. In fact, what you have written, and which I agree with, corresponds neither more nor less to what is expressed in this amendment. To be increasingly clear, since the 2006 reform did not bring any consequences for the interpretation of the case law, Amendment 1.23 states that the burden of proving that the criminal is not a criminal is borne by the public prosecutor. At the time I was a magistrate and I was part, having some doubt of interpretation, among those who criticized the 2006 reform of Forza Italia because this legislation left room for the interpreter to reverse the meaning of the norm itself. What was worth doing with that reform? It is not who invokes self-defense that must prove the condition: just tell what are the reasons for which he acted in self-defense and that these fall within those provided for by the norm, then it is up to the public prosecutor to prove that the case does not fall within the norm. If it is a criminal (this is the assessment of the case law, and it is correct), if we do not come to say that this rule affirms a new principle, this means neither more nor less that it has not changed anything: it is always the poor victim who will have to take charge of the legal costs in order to prove the facts that justify the application of the legitimate defense. If we consider doing so then, if you do not accept a correction hypothesis that seems to me more than obvious, we will really cling to the two expressions always used by the rapporteur, hoping that God will send us good, because then our Group will still vote in favour of Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this bill, in the end, will unfortunately not resolve the problems that affect Italy and those who are perhaps attacked even inside their home because it will concern a niche: those who may be weapons owners and we know that the number of them is very small, it is a very small minority. However, it is important, and our vote has already been anticipated, for the social perception that the adoption of this law will bring into the country and therefore the amendments that we have tabled - I am referring in particular to 1,203 which is at my first signature - have been drawn up to remove the ambiguity that very often exists in the interpretation by the judiciary. This text, fortunately, brings clarification but we cannot say the same thing as the previous rule and we know the negative consequences that have occurred in the courtrooms where, among other things, we had leopard-stained sentences. For the same behavior were acquitted those who committed the "injury" in the presence of a criminal cause similar to the previous one which is related to the legitimate use of weapons by the police forces. So I would like to point out that we have clarified paragraph 1: it is not punishable by those who have committed the fact that they have been forced to defend their own right or others against the present or perceived danger. Because we must also put ourselves in the shoes of the one who is faced with a situation of danger, perhaps in the dark, at night, in special circumstances, of an unjust offense, provided that the defense is not manifestly disproportionate to the offense. Here, this term "palesemente" greatly restricts the possibility of interpretation. I believe that this rule, as amended by us, is also intended to simplify the work of those who have to apply the law and therefore of the judge, and probably in many cases also to avoid the opening of criminal proceedings. I have the conviction that we, by approving it, do the good of the citizens. The national situation is clear now. The rule, the right - as Mr Gasparri said just now - is something living, we must adapt to the situations that we are living at the moment. The tragic events of the last few months, I would say in recent years, point out that the rule, as it is formulated today, is absolutely out of date. We do not support the executioner of the night, as someone may think - I am referring to Mr Grasso - but not even the culture of surrender, that is, we are opposed to the fact that one can think that there is no right to defend one's property, one's family, one's own things within one's home. The defence - as has been said so many times and I want to repeat it - is always legitimate. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u107	Mr President, we have tried to bring Article 1 back into line with the system. We have already said that there is no point in intervening on a rule which, if properly applied, is already sufficient to ensure the safety of citizens. Therefore, we had shifted our attention more to Article 55 and not to Article 52. With Amendment 1.4 we are trying to clarify what the proportion ratio we are talking about must be, but it has been completely unenforced. So with Amendment 1.4 we make it clear and we sweep away those elements of insecurity and uncertainty that are contained in the standard as it was approved in the Commission and brought to the attention of the House. Let us specify very well what the conditions for which we can say that we are in the presence of an effective proportion between offense and defense, which must be what must necessarily be kept in mind for the correct application of self-defense. Otherwise we fall back into what I said earlier, namely the fact that a simple intrusion, in whatever way it is done, will lead the owner, owner, who occupies that building to use legitimately or in any case to react even to the use of weapons and with the situations I mentioned earlier. Then we limited ourselves with the other arguments. We have tried to clarify, with the other amendments, those elements of genericity that mark the whole of Article 1 of this legislation, which rewrites Article 52, by taking away and explaining that violence must be to people and that, due to the threat of the use of weapons, it should be removed from the threat of harm but must be an effective use of weapons. The threat, in fact, means nothing. All this we have tried to put forward with the amendments, in order to try to improve this text which, otherwise, would really lead to aberrant situations.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u108	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u109	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u110	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u111	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1 tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,200 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,201, tabled by Senators Gallone and Caliendo, up to the words "offenses." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.2 are therefore not included. BOTTICS (M5S). But do we want to pick up some files? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u114	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, this is a general statement on Amendment 1.5, but in the spirit in which we are dealing with this measure, to reiterate that, in our view, beyond the procedural problems that allow us to consider the amendments to be dropped, our position is that we do not consider the text to be sufficient. Therefore, our amending work, including Amendment 1.5, is aimed at improving the quality of the text. With proposals of law to the House and the Senate we were the promoters of the resumption, in this legislature, of the discussion that had been started and not concluded in the previous. We were the advocates, as a center-right, of the law that in 2006 improved the rules on self-defense. However, in the next ten and more years, many concrete cases have led to uncertainty in the interpretation of the rules; hence the need, felt by various groups, to return to the subject of the penal code precisely in order to protect the citizen, the trader and the people offended by crime. In this case, therefore, this amendment also focuses on the proportion of the attack and the response. We do not want the far west, as I said before in general discussion. We do not want the citizens all armed, because it is the state that has the primary task of defending the citizens. And we are concerned that, months after the birth of this government, the money for the recruitment of police forces is not there. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] There was talk of a billion euros. In the law of stability (but we will also discuss this with the security decree) the billion has already become half a billion and the destination to the security and defence sector has been extended to the judiciary and the public employment as a whole. The money decreases, the audience widens, the possibility of hiring cops, carabinieri, financiers, firefighters decreases. We do not want to delegate to the citizens the self-defense, which we want the State to exercise, but the money of hiring do not put them or reduce them and self-defense must be compressed. Therefore, our amendments are aimed at making the citizen more secure if he is dramatically forced to defend himself in the shop or in his own home. And we invite you to welcome them. Especially to those who in the center-right have had to accept compromises with an improper majority, made also by people who do not share this law, we say: dear friends of the League, our texts are consistent with the common program that we have signed is that we support on self-defense, defence on security on all these matters. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u115	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u118	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you to be able to remove the ballots from the posts where there is no senator, given that there are no voters.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u119	Senator Bottici, I'm going to try this for the sixth year. When there is verification in the quorum, the presence of the card affects whether the senator is present or not; when there is electronic voting, if no one acts on the button it is absolutely irrelevant for the purpose of presence [[Applause]] BOTTICS (M5S). Except for the pianists. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So, hoping that no one will take advantage of it to be a pianist, it doesn't change anything at all. If, however, colleagues extract them, we avoid the secretary senators turning around for the benches of those who have gone away without carrying the card with them. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u122	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, you replied to Senator Bottici saying that it does not affect the vote but the presence.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u123	No, it doesn't affect the presence. That's what I wanted to point out. BOTTICS (M5S). But on the diary, yes. AIROLA (M5S). Then I have nothing to add. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.6, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators, until the words'(a) '. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 1.7 and 1.8 are therefore not included. Amendment 1,202 has been withdrawn. I call on Senator Aimi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,203. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.9, which is identical to Amendment 1.10.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u124	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u126	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, we have been involved in this subject for a long time in the Commission because in the current text of the law, which this reform does not touch, home self-defense is conditioned by the fact that those who defend themselves have the weapon legitimately. In fact, the law speaks of a legitimate weapon. I wonder why we should expect the weapon to be legitimately held when I defend myself. If anything, I will respond to an abusive possession of a weapon, which is a separate crime, a violation of Law No 110 of 1975, which lays down additional rules for the control of weapons, ammunition and explosives. However, if I am in danger of life, if I have to save my life or my family, I wonder why I cannot defend myself even by using a weapon that may not legitimately be held. We therefore call for the removal of this inscription, this condition. I quote a concrete case that happened to a client of mine who suffered theft of a weapon. He made the complaint to the police, who went to his house and wanted to see all the weapons he had; my client showed them all and at some point it happened that he had in good faith replaced the barrel of a weapon with that of a hunting weapon, because it had worn out. My good-faith client didn't think that the barrel had to be reported because it was part of a weapon, but he replaced it. Well, if in that case my client had defended himself using that weapon, because the barrel had been replaced without communicating it to the public security authority, would he have responded to voluntary murder according to this rule? I'm asking you. We have long debated this issue in the Commission, and the vast majority of Commissioners have also agreed that this should be removed, and then the majority has once again closed down and left the text as it stands. I believe that we would do justice by approving this amendment. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u127	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u129	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, when there are common sense solutions, the right and the left also agree, as in this case. So, as far as the engraving is concerned, I fully share the considerations that Senator Balboni has made, because if I have to defend myself I cannot go see if I have denounced the weapon or not before. I will certainly find myself in the situation of having to reject aggressive action and therefore it is correct to delete the words "legitimately held" even if in none of the draft laws this has been carried out. This is a rule adopted in the previous legislature, perhaps to give the chrysm of some legality to the reaction and defense, but it is absolutely unthinkable that only a weapon legitimately held can be used, because any means is useful to reject violence against one's own safety. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and the FdI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u130	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u132	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group will also be voting in favour of this amendment. We believe that if someone uses a weapon, legitimately, to defend themselves, the fact that it is lawfully held or not can in no way change the matter. Of course he will then respond, to the illegal possession of a weapon, but this is really something else and has nothing to do with defending one's own life and family members. It is truly astonishing that most people persist in taking sides against this standard of common sense. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u133	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u135	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, we will vote in favour of this amendment and the reason for our vote is very simple. In fact, to foresee that we should not use an illegal weapon to save ourselves from imminent danger, it really seems out of place. It is logical that those who use a weapon that is not lawfully held will then have to answer for the related crime. To say, however, that we can only defend ourselves with a weapon that is legitimately held seems to me to be out of the ordinary. Who has a gun in the house, what does he keep it for? You can keep it to commit crimes or to do anything else, but to say that I can't use it if they are going to kill me, in those conditions, it seems absolutely contrary to common sense. So it is clear and I repeat that those who hold a legitimate weapon will answer for it, because at that moment it will be known that the weapon was illegitimately held, but restricting use only to legitimate weapons held seems to me to be a very poor thing.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u136	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u138	BUCCARELLA (Mixed). Mr President, I do not agree with what my fellow Members have said, because the adoption of this amendment, as I see it, would send a message to the Italians that on their bedside table, next to the bed, we can safely have an illegal weapon that is not denounced, provided it is used to defend itself from someone. This would automatically encourage the possession of unreported and unlegitimately held weapons and therefore I do not know whether this consequence, which I believe to be foreseeable, has been taken into account by the proposers of the amendment, on which I declare my vote against.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u139	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u141	CRUCIOLI (M5S). Mr President, I find the amendment from the right, which would like to remove the reference to the weapon legitimately held, if used for self-defense, to be understandable and consistent. I do not understand and find contradictory the position of the left, of LEU and of the PD, who on the one hand denounce the far west and then join in asking that we can defend ourselves with illegitimate weapons. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This amendment would lead - yes - to an increase in the use of arms. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In fact, I will say more, not only would it increase the use of arms, but it would also encourage them to be held illegitimately, precisely for the purpose of being able to defend themselves legitimately. The result would be an increase in the use of unlegitimately held weapons. So, honestly, it seems to me to stigmatize the contradictory nature of these arguments. For these reasons, I consider the rejection of this amendment to be absolutely balanced. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u142	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.9, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators, identical to amendment 1.10, tabled by Senator La Russa and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senator La Russa and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.12.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u143	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u145	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, my colleagues Mrs La Russa, Mr Stancanelli, Mr Rauti and Mr Garnero Santanche, who spoke during the general debate, explained the reasons for Amendment No 1.12. We propose that the judge should refer not to the state of mind of the defender, but to objective conditions, when he evaluates the conditions necessary to recognize the existence of a legitimate home defense. The measure, in the text proposed by the majority, refers to the serious disturbance and psychological conditions of the attack and, in fact, intervenes on Article 55 of the Criminal Code. On the other hand, we believe that reference should be made to the objective conditions in which the attacker finds himself, that is to say to the way in which the attacker acts. Let's give an example. If the attacker has taken defense courses, or is a police or public security officer or a black belt of karate, it is clear that his disturbance will be very different from that of an invalid in the wheelchair who sees the intrusion into his home. However, it will be extremely difficult for the aggressor to prove whether and to what extent he was upset and whether and to what extent the reasons for his disturbance existed. If, however, we refer to objective ways, there can be no discussion. The objective modalities apply to everyone and it is right to consider the modalities of those who violate the law and not those of those who defend themselves. For this reason, we insist on the adoption of this amendment, which aims to strengthen the legitimate home defence, without going absolutely against the general principles, which we also want to safeguard, and the general balance of our legal system. We simply intend to make the application of the rule clearer for the interpreters and courts, without reference to subjective conditions of difficult and almost impossible proof, with a clear and precise anchoring to the objectivity of the intrusion and the manner in which it takes place. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u146	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.12, tabled by Senator La Russa and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.15, tabled by Senator Valente and other senators, up to the words'(b) and (c) '. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.13. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.14.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u147	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u149	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, this amendment, too, is based on absolute common sense, because home self-defense, as defined both in the current rule and in the reform we are examining, applies exclusively to home and residence. Well, I wonder if a citizen is in the fenced park of his own house and sees someone climbing over the fence wall, is it worth self-defense to him or not? I think it's worth it, because someone is in the park on the deckchair sunbathing or in the house lying on the couch watching television, the attack is equally unexpected. Once again, therefore, I do not understand why we do not want to extend self-defense to cases such as these. I would therefore ask the House to take this into account and to vote in favour. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u150	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u152	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I would like to inform Senator Balboni that the case law has already developed these concepts, to the point of broadening the concept of home to belongings, such as the garden (Senator Balboni speaks of park, but we are used to smaller things) and the garage. The concept of domicile, therefore, already includes the belongings related to the domicile. But it makes us disgusting to think that it is enough that someone is going over the fence of our garden, always being of aggression in his home, to legitimize a reaction. It is precisely that case-law that makes us feel that we must vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u153	We thank you for the integration you have given us. But I would also have indicated the direction of march, if one enters or exits the garden. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.14, tabled by Senator La Russa and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,204, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,205.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u154	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u156	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, our Group's amendment 1,205, first signed by Senator Caliendo, with my own and other colleagues' signatures, seeks to better define the issue of intrusion. This law is being approved in order to reduce the ambiguity arising from Law No 59 of 2006 which the centre-right wanted and which, in concrete application, has caused, for persons who have legitimately defended themselves, injustices in the case. The investigations must be done, but we say - and we regret that our amendment has been rejected - the right to self-defense and this law, which also improves the existing legislation, I did not have the courage, the numbers and the possibility to affirm the principle of the right to self-defense, which remains for us in Forza Italia the fundamental legal principle. However, we continue to try to make a better contribution to a law which, however, will make progress by innovating on the 2006 law. Why take half a step and not do - I also tell colleagues in the League - the most decisive steps? Why don't they want the 5 Stars? But then this is a problem that demonstrates the anomaly of the political situation we are in. This amendment clarifies, even with very clear definitions, that in case of intrusion, even attempted, in the places indicated there without the consent of the rightful person or in any case put in place violently to people or things or with threats of use of weapons, self-defense is assumed and is excluded the existence of the crime, even manslaughter. We in Forza Italia propose amendments to reduce the margin of ambiguity in the application of the law. We expect those who wish to affirm the principle of defending the citizen to vote in favour of our proposal. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u157	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,205, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,206 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,18, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.19, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.20.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u158	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u160	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, once again, always in order to make the rule clearer and more effective, we do not understand why we should ask a person who is caught by surprise in his home, who may be sleeping or playing with his children or doing what each of us does in our private home, and who unexpectedly suffers an assault, because he takes the legitimate home defense, to assess first whether the attacker is using weapons or other means of physical coercion. What if who's attacking me is a black belt of karate and knows the move he can kill me with one hand? I, in an absolutely extraordinary and unpredictable juncture of my life, must consider whether or not those who are attacking me are armed, how they are armed, what means of physical coercion they have available; perhaps we are talking about an invalid or elderly person, who is sitting in an armchair and who must defend himself only if the attacker is using a weapon. I think we're really out of reality. I think that when we predict that we can defend ourselves from those who attack us in our home, with violence or threat, we can stop here. Violence or threat must be a necessary and sufficient condition in order to exercise legitimate home defense. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u161	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.20, tabled by Senator La Russa and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.21, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.22, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.23.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u162	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u164	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, Amendment 1.23, which we tabled together with Mr Caliendo, is another of those points which positively strengthens the principle of the right to self-defense. I repeat that it would have been better to approve our writing of the article, which marked the principle more precisely. Important judges, such as the prosecutor Nordio (even now that he does not have a judicial function), at the hearing in the Commission, in writings and on many other occasions reiterated the need to guarantee the right to self-defense. In this case, Amendment 1.23 states that the burden of proving the non-susistence of self-defense is borne by the public prosecutor. It is a greater protection of the citizen in these dramatic situations, which no one hopes. People don't stand behind the window hoping to shoot someone and then have to go against self-defense; people would like to stay quiet at home. Amendment 1.23 raises even more the charge of proving that there is no exercise of self-defense on the part of the person who incurs these events.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u165	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u167	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, Senator Gasparri himself has admitted that the burden already exists in the public prosecutor's office. On the contrary, I must say more: with the introduction, in the 2006 reform of the legitimate home defense, it has been recognized a reversal of the burden of proof, in the sense that, being already foreshadowed this hypothesis, it must be the prosecutor to prove, which is for the benefit of those who are in the situation of being attacked, and therefore legitimately defended. I therefore declare my abstention vote on this amendment, because I cannot be against something that already exists and that I have exercised for so many years: the burden of the accusation.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u168	. Repetita iuvant. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.23, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.24, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u169	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u171	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote against this article because we believe it to be discriminatory and criminal in relation to a problem that we assume, and that you say you want to hire Italians literally. If we approve this bill as it is, we do not deal with the victims of the crimes, and instead we would like to deal with the victims of the crimes, even the most odious ones, such as the robberies at home. We would also like to deal with the suffering they face and in fact we have tabled an amendment to this effect and already in the last parliamentary term we had proposed what is marginally contained in this bill: to remove from legal costs those who are acquitted for legitimately defending themselves or when the dismissal takes place. What's this? It is yet another manifest norm in which you tell that you are concerned with security (and it is not true); in which you tell that the processes will be avoided (and it is not true and it will not be true). Article 1 is a messy article because you insert the word "always" in an already applicable rule: either it is absolutely ultroneal or you want to remove the current limits (and you said that they are not deleted). Even at the moment you introduce the concept of intrusion is really a mockery because it is obvious that if a person enters the house it is an intrusion. So what are we talking about, since the rule in force says that defence is always legitimate and that the State considers it a social asset to defend itself legitimately? What is not legitimate is to use the personal stories of those who have been attacked, of those who have suffered, to make political propaganda. This is absolutely not legitimate, and this is what we want to denounce in this House. You make it sound like this is an intervention to protect people, as they asked for in all the hearings. Speak, however, badly, at the next moment of the trial, telling that they will not be tried (and that is not true); telling that a prosecutor will not have to ascertain what happened (and that is not true). Moreover, the concrete cases speak of the archives and the acquittals. They're talking numbers, League colleagues. When you were in the government in the three-year period 2009-2011, you cut 4 billion on security and defence. You cut them. Now we'll see what you're re-introduced, because it's tiring to be behind you on numbers, very tiring. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It's kind of a three-card game. We put 7 billion in the security sector at the time. And what about protection, this "takes and puts" on the funds at the outskirts? To the elderly person, whom we wanted to protect with funds to the municipalities for street lighting and for increased and widespread security, let's say now: "Don't worry, because you can sleep with a beautiful nearby Winchester or a weapon of the latest generation." Now it seems that some agreement has been reached with the ANCI, but that is basically your proposal. Colleagues, you are creating the social alarm and I am very concerned when I hear candidly saying that, as there is a perception, we do not respond to perception by creating more security, by protecting citizens and strengthening the Forces of Order, but by responding to armed forces. That's really great. In essence, you have said that the State is next to those victims, but in fact you are certifying the absence of the State; you are saying that in the face of a danger the State escapes, leaps sideways and leaves people alone. So what remains of this measure (and worries me no less)? The ideology remains. It is useless that you make the difference between left and right: the ideology remains. This is an ideological proposal that represents an idea of society and will create the perception - this yes - that can be armed and without any control. Maybe it will not be true, but to send this message and make it an ideological manifesto we are concerned and we oppose this. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u172	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u174	CALIENDO (FI-BP). Mr President, we would have liked this text to be different. On this issue we have made the election campaign; it is a pity that there is no Minister of the Interior here today, because we have done it together. We have strengthened an idea of proper self-defense and we had to apply it to all the conditions that can be fulfilled in fact, so as to exclude the feeling of insecurity that comes from a rule that is not easy to apply. We had therefore written a rule concerning the right of defence, but you said no, even in the part where it was said that self-defense is assumed when it is aimed at defending minors, pregnant women and disabled women. You said no. Maybe you didn't read it, actually most likely you didn't read it. After that we introduced a number of small amendments to make what the rapporteur had done functional: you said no. We could also follow the same logic and vote no, because you rejected our amendments, but this belongs to those who make politics as politicians, not to those who make politics for the high function that politics belongs to. [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups]] Politics means only one thing: is this rule, even if it is not sufficient, better than the current rule? Of course I do. So, in order to be consistent with our lives and our way of life, we will vote in favour of this rule, but it is up to you - I hope - to make those corrections in the subsequent rules that make the text clearer and more legitimate. Otherwise, voting only because of a numerical force and arrogance is not worth it. [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u175	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u177	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I am consistent with the vote against Article 1, stating that the discipline introduced in 2006 already provides a sufficient response for home self-defense. I repeat my opposition to rules introducing absolute presumptions and in fact annul any discretion of the judge. I would also like to reiterate my position on the concept, which I completely disagree with, that self-defense should be considered a right. Okay. In a liberal state, of course, there are rights, but there is also a complaint, a criminal or an apology, to make it clear to those who listen to us so as not to use too technical terms. There is also the exercise of a right as a criminal, as something that can also determine non-enforcement for having acted in the exercise of a right. The right, however, in our system - as I think, in all liberal systems - cannot be without limits. The right to strike must also have limits and limits. The right to the manifestation of one's thought has limits. If you pass them, answer slander or slander. There are criminal offences that limit the exercise of the right. I have no theoretical difficulty in stating this, but it is a right that, however, must be absolutely delimited to bring it back into legality. Therefore, there must be the requirement of a behaviour that excuses those who have reacted to violence and must do so under certain conditions, which are those established by our laws, such as home self-defense, introduced by the 2006 reform. I do not believe that the solution is to arm the citizens and, however, we must be careful about that change in culture which can lead to a spiral of violence. I am voting against Article 1. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u178	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u180	STANCANELLI (FdI). Mr President, I am speaking to announce the vote in favour of Article 1 by the Brothers of Italy Group, but without forgetting the criticisms we have made of the measure because in our speeches we have described it as absolutely uncourageable and weak, in contrast to what we have undertaken to do. I am talking about the center-right coalition and I am addressing the League, which is part of the majority today and which, together with us, committed itself to strengthening the principle of home self-defense. Having rejected the amendment calling for no mention of legitimacy in the possession of arms, I believe it is proof of this fear and of this little courage. In the same way, I am surprised that in this House, instead of discussing the rule, the far west and the ideological encouragement to arm itself are being feared in this debate too. We have said that - everyone says so, even colleagues from other oppositions - there is no mention of weapons in the law. We have to reverse the concept because people aren't told to arm themselves. It is said to those who have the ability to defend themselves. I also said that in the Commission. I don't have any weapons at home and I couldn't have them because I can't shoot and I don't know how to do it. We are discussing the hypotheses and the case of those who have the ability to defend themselves, the strength or courage to defend themselves and we regard it almost as those who have done the aggression. That is why we consider this proposal to be weak, but it is an encouragement. Nothing will happen compared to these dangers that are feared because those who have good memory will remember that in 2006, when the rule of home self-defense was approved, there were from the same cultural and political circles that today oppose the same attempt to frighten people. The far west was happening in Italy. Well, nothing has happened in these twelve years. That is why we shall vote in favour of Article 1, although we have our doubts as to how far we can go in identifying the abstract case of home self-defense. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u181	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u183	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I do not have a Winchester at home, nor will I buy a 44 Magnum to defend myself, but I do not accept to hear that this bill puts aside the state and arm the citizens in a hypothetical far west that will not be there. I do not accept it more from those who in 2011 and 2013, in bipartisan way, made billions cuts to the Forces of Order. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This bill does not do this and the Movimento 5 Stars, in order to strengthen the idea that those who must defend the citizen is the State, has provided a financing of 500 million for three years to the Forces of the Order, just because I am not able to defend myself or to shoot. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would add, however, that the previous law is not called into question more than that, just read the article. To foresee that the proportional relationship referred to in Article 52 of the Criminal Code must always exist, if anything, slightly strengthens the fact that a judge has often condemned someone because the reaction was not consistent with the act of aggression, so I see nothing wrong with it. Similarly, I see nothing wrong with adding the following after the third paragraph of Article 52 of the Criminal Code: In the cases referred to in the second and third subparagraphs, he shall always act in a state of self-defense by one or more persons to reject the intrusion carried out, with violence or threat of the use of weapons or other means of physical coercion. I don't think there can be any more common sense than that, leaving to the judge the assessment of the extent and the threat force of the use of weapons or other means. For these reasons, I am voting in favour of Article 1. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u184	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u185	Mr President, with Amendment 2.2, which I am going to put forward, I would like to ask for the deletion of Article 2, which concerns excessive manslaughter in self-defense. We must not forget, among other things, that in our system is also provided for the self-defense putative, that is, the error in the self-defense that makes the judge absolutely blameless those who acted by mistake, believing that there were conditions for self-defense, which instead were insistent. There is therefore, in addition to excessive manslaughter, the possibility of evaluating the error from a psychological point of view. Amendment 2.2, which I ask the House to approve, provides for the deletion of Article 2, which we absolutely do not agree with, especially since it introduces elements that are not well understood. In fact, the article refers to the conditions set out in the second, third and fourth paragraphs of Article 52, which already provide for situations of self-defense. Are other conditions added? From the point of view of both logical and systematic coordination, this is not understood. Apart from this, further typings are introduced that concern having taken advantage of circumstances of time, place and person. What are they? For example, at night, special circumstances such as the age or handicapped defense of someone who is disabled. All these circumstances place in a situation of self-defense, not to be assessed altogether and completely by the judge as well as the serious psychic disturbance resulting from the current danger situation. On the serious disturbance I have expressed absolutely contrary to the absolute indeterminate nature of the situation of the disturbance, which will be difficult to graduate from people. Who is more upset and who is less troubled? Who is easily impressionable or particularly fearful? They are very vague criteria, and precisely for this reason our code has established that the subcontractor cannot be diminished or excluded from emotional and passional states. However, in the event that this reference should not be deleted once again, I have proposed, as a subsidiary and certainly not the main one, the possibility that the disturbance, which is something generic, would be replaced, through another amendment to Article 2, by the terror and panic that are concepts already expressed in the German code and that are something more than the disturbance. Not only that, I have also linked terror, panic and fear to the unpredictability of the situation that is being created. Something that creates this terror and panic that, however, does not flow on objective conditions but on psychological conditions, causing an error, that error that is provided for in Article 59, fourth paragraph, of our penal code, therefore something that is already foreseen and that can be evaluated - terror and panic - because given the unpredictability that generates an error in a situation of danger. Only under these conditions can these psychological states be evaluated.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u186	Mr President, I would like the rapporteur to listen to me because he knows better than I that this article is important. In fact, you correctly introduced in the second paragraph of Article 55 a legitimate defence hypothesis that is correctly explained, and therefore lawful. With regard to this paragraph, to be more precise, we have proposed two amendments, the first of which is 2,201, on which I believe, Mr President, a mistake has been made in the press. In fact, after the words: "in Article 61, first paragraph, number 5" "there is a "i.e. " and the words "have acted" are missing. The other amendment is 2.9. It is stated in Article 2 that, in the cases referred to in the second, third and fourth paragraphs of Article 52, criminality is excluded if the person who has committed the matter for the protection of his or her own safety has acted under the conditions laid down in Article 61, first paragraph, number 5. Read it. The conditions set out in Article 61, first paragraph, number 5), apply to the position of the person who enters the house illegally, because he has taken advantage of circumstances of place and time such as to exclude private defence; for example, he has taken advantage of the age of the victim, and so let's say that the victim acted for his age condition. I also added: "I have acted out of terror, serious disturbance or panic." This, Mr President, is now a clear, precise identification of self-defense in the German system. In this system, case law has been applying these principles for years now. Our system of law has much copy and copied: just as it has exported from the Roman era a series of norms and rights, in the same way, when sometimes even the Germans do something good, we adopt it too. And in this case it would be necessary to adopt. I am surprised, Mr President, that you do not give a favourable opinion. I hope so. My amendment 2.9 says: The state of terror, serious disturbance or panic always exists in the defensive reaction to those who are caught in the act of committing the crime provided for in the third paragraph of Article 628 (1) and (3) (a) of the Treaty. Number 1 reads: "If the violence or threat is committed with weapons [585 2], or by a transvised person, or by more than one assembled person." This is the concept expressed in Article 1. Then why do we not put it here where legitimacy is further expressed? As regards 3-a), it shall read as follows: "If the matter is committed in the places referred to in Article 624-a or in places such as to impede public or private defence." It is clear that, since here we are adding a paragraph in the excess manslaughter which, following the indication that it came to us from all the doctrine heard, identifies the positions and conditions of self-defense. Now, to rule this out, I think it's a mistake. Do you think that our proposal is to be corrected, to be supplemented? Let's do it, but let's approve it otherwise we find ourselves again in front of an article that is monco: there is one part and the other part is missing. So, because this amendment has the same philosophy as the article, and it does not come from us, but even from the doctrine, from the reports received in the Commission with the entire amendment, why take half of it and not all of it? I would like an explanation, Mr President. Let me not just say that there is the opposite view, because we would at least like to have the satisfaction of reasoning in terms of law, either with the Government or with the rapporteur, and to hear us say the reason why we should not add what I have referred to. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u187	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u188	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 2. Senator Caliendo, I understand your reasoning; we have also done so in the most natural and technical seat of the Commission. I repeat, I understand your reasoning, but I do not share it, not from a political point of view, but from a technical point of view. I therefore also object to your amendment in this respect: I believe that the rule that has been proposed and voted on in the Commission is sufficiently clear, and this of course on the basis of technical considerations that we have made in our office. The opinion is therefore against, as is the additional amendment 2.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u189	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u190	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2,200 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.3, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,201 (correct text), tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u191	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u192	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u193	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I would also like to speak on this amendment signed by Senators of the Democratic Party to clarify a point that this party wishes to leave to the proceedings of this House. From this point of view I thank Senator Airola, whose previous speech gives me this opportunity. Mr President, we shall be voting in favour, after pointing out that Article 1, which is the heart of this measure, was the real discrimination. And we will because we believe that the assumption of the concept of disturbance is a correct assumption. It is also a paradigm of our attitude to this amendment, which is aimed at adjusting and improving this definition further. But I also speak here to say that there is a difference between an attitude and another attitude. There are those who set themselves the objective of improving things in this House, and there are those who set themselves the objective of producing and promoting mass distraction. Why is the subject of self-defense used in this instrumental way? To distract from what? Senator Airola, therefore, gives me the opportunity to clarify why the security sector, from 2013 to 2018, has enjoyed more investments for a figure of seven billion euros! [[Applause from the PD Group]] AIROLA (M5S). But go see the police stations! Mr Ferrari (PD). Seven billion euros that Democratic Party governments have put on a section on which, in the previous three years, had been cut: three billion! To the point that dates back to July 2011 a letter addressed to Minister Tremonti by the Interior Minister Maroni, in which the Minister of the Interior urgently asked that at least one billion be reinstated. This is precisely because (and it was certified by Minister Giarda just after) that sector (that security, which should be the heart of your honest and intellectual attitude, which is to help people in difficulty on this issue too) was actually the most cut off state sector from the budgets of those years! So let's make it clear that the Democratic Party has put seven billion in these years and it was also a way to deal with the urgency and perception of security that today lives in Italian citizens. You did the opposite. We shall see - but I have doubts, and it seems to me that they are confirmed every day by the newspapers - whether in the budget law you really want to make direct investments at the heart of this issue, that is, helping the security of Italian citizens! [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u194	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u195	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u196	(M5S). Mr President, I wanted to reply to Mr Ferrari now. Today, honestly, I followed with interest. I have heard of rights and I have heard many times about the perception of security, especially from the benches of the left. What do you mean, but I would like to ask, at the limit with a little more calm, by perception? What perception do we want to talk about? That of the senator who comes home to his beautiful apartment or the perception of the family of the big urban suburbs, of who is at home quiet with their children watching television, while someone downstairs is trying to break into the apartment? [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] What right do we want to talk about? The one about the thief who walks into my house or the father who wants to sleep quietly while he has his daughters in the next room who are with him and watch television? [[Comments of Senators Bellanova and Cirinna]] What rights do we want to talk about? I didn't invite those people to my house. I want to have the right to invite whom I want and to defend myself by all possible means from whom I have not invited. The thief can come when I'm not here, when my kids are at school and you can take everything away, I don't care. [[Protests from the PD Group]] I want to have guarantees that the state, of which you speak and which is absent in the Italian suburbs and municipalities, will be replaced by those who want to defend themselves against criminals in this country. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u197	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.5, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.6, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.8, tabled by Senator La Russa and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.9, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.202 and 2.203 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.11, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.204 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.13 which is identical to Amendment 2.14.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u198	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u199	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u200	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I thought I also asked to speak on Amendment 2.8. The legitimate home defense concerns one's own safety and property, instead in Article 55 we speak only of safety. It is an incongruity that we wanted to avoid with Amendment 2.8, but patiently, it will be one of the many that we have not managed to avoid. Another incongruity of this text that we sincerely fail to understand is the reference to the grave disturbance. Who can determine whether a disturbance is serious? Do we really think that a judge can decide on a case by case basis whether the disturbance is a little more serious, and in that case it triggers the complaint, or if instead the disturbance is a little less serious, and then it doesn't trigger the complaint? Anyone with a common sense can realize how much more pertinent the proposal put forward by Brothers of Italy not to refer to the subjective condition of the aggressor, but to the ways in which the aggressor acts and to write down all those cases in which the aggressor acted with mobility objectively suitable to create fear or agitation. You did not want to accept our proposal of common sense, but then let's at least remove the adjective: "grave" referring to the word: "stuttering." I think it is enough to speak of disturbance: any condition of disturbance can be kept sufficient to write down also because - correct me if I am wrong - no one has yet invented a thermometer that determines when the disturbance is mild, medium, maximum or serious. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Friends of the majority, if you have this thermometer, tell us, because we haven't found it anywhere. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u201	Senator Balboni, what you require is the "turbometer": you will find that too sooner or later. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.13, tabled by Senator La Russa and other senators, identical to amendment 2.14, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.12, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.1, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u202	Mr President, Amendment 3.1 proposes to delete Article 3, which eliminates the discretion of the judge in the suspension of the sentence, making it conditional on payment of compensation. The judge already has this right, this discretion: he may suspend the execution of the sentence in the event of compensation for the damage. On the other hand, with the approval of Article 3, it is imposed on the judge that, in the case of a conviction for theft in the home and theft by ripping, the benefit of the conditional suspension must be subject, always and in any case, to an economic requirement. So there is a difference: those who have money can avoid prison, because they get parole, those who do not have them, are forced to go to prison, unless the judge, in a discretionary way, can decide otherwise. Well, once again removing the discretion of the judge seems to me to involve discrimination, which can only favour those who are wealthier than those who are in different economic conditions.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u203	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u204	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u205	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u206	Having not been tabled on Article 3 other amendments than the deletions 3.1, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators, and 3.2, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators, I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the maintenance of Article 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.0.200, which seeks to insert an additional article after Article 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u207	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u208	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u209	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, this amendment is a technical amendment, but it translates in very simple terms: if it is adopted it will allow any private citizen who suffers a breach of his domicile to arrest in flagrante the person who enters his home. Which is currently not possible because, according to the rules that I request to amend with my amending proposal, the arrest in flagrante is only permitted for criminal offences of professional origin. We, on the other hand, know that trespassing is a criminal offence, in its basic form, which can only be prosecuted. So if someone walks into my house today and I stop him, waiting for the carabinieri to arrive, this person can sue me for kidnapping, sue and claim damages, even if he can get me convicted. I wish that we could reason on this and allow that if someone arbitrarily enters my house I can at least stop him until the carabinieri arrive. Colleagues, if you vote in favour of Amendment 3.0,200, this will happen and I believe it would be in the interests of the safety of every private citizen. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u210	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.0,200, tabled by Senator Balboni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u211	Mr President, Article 4 contains a series of penalties. For the experience I have both as a prosecutor and as a judge, I know that when the penalty does not appear proportionate to a system assessment, in the end the minimums always apply, with the result that - often - the deterrent effect that the penalty should have is not at all perceived. Another aspect must also be considered. Those who commit a crime do not make an assessment of the penalty to which they may be sentenced. Those who commit a crime predict and depict impunity. All the legal practitioners who have been auditors - lawyers and magistrates - have told us that, ever since, the increase in penalties has been experienced as something that has to determine who knows what and that, from time to time, the penalty is increased to give the impression that a particular criminal case has been made more serious. In fact, this effect is often not produced. Therefore, increases in punishment are not the solution to the problem of self-defense. Rather, it should be ensured that the procedural machinery comes to deliver judgments faster. I've heard the victims talk about a very long time of trial and exposure to the press. We have heard these complaints, which have nothing to do with self-defense. If criminality is to be eliminated in order to reduce trial times, then this is a position of judicial policy that perhaps deserves much clearer intervention from the Minister of Justice. For these reasons, with amendment 4.1 we propose the deletion of Article 4, which provides for increased punishment, but this does not mean wanting to be in favour of thieves, robbers or criminals. I repeat, in fact, that the norm has only a propaganda value and an effect of media communication, without producing anything real and useful, as we have been told by all those - lawyers and magistrates - who have audited. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u212	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention for a moment. on the first paragraph of Article 614: I had tabled an amendment to the Commission, which was accepted, so the text you are currently seeing is the one resulting from the amendment that has been accepted. The second paragraph remains the problem. For those who do not remember it, Article 614, in the fourth paragraph, provides for the sentence from one to five years, and proceeds of its own motion, if the matter is committed violently on matters. Those who have experience of courtrooms know that sometimes, as a result of disagreements between spouses, in different cases of separation, one of the two spouses to whom the house has been assigned changes the lock, the other tries to enter and its key is no longer working, so use a screwdriver to be able to enter. At that point the sentence and the hypothesis referred to in the second paragraph are triggered. Does it seem normal for you to take the sentence from two to six years, thus forcing judges from a minimum sentence of two years, while before you had the opportunity to take account of the situation? I propose to you, with Amendment 4.0.1, not only to delete this point (b) and to leave the text as it stands, but to introduce a new crime, the one referred to in Article 624-a, which provides for a sentence of two to six years, which takes place when a home invasion is made to commit other crimes. Please consider, because it would not be the first case of trespassing within family relationships and resolved by the judge with penalties that could be contained within certain limits. I think it's a mistake to raise your penis above that level. I would ask the rapporteur, as he was aware in the assessment of the first paragraph, to have the same care when assessing the second paragraph. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u213	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u214	Mr President, as far as Article 4 is concerned, the opinion is also against all the amendments. Senator Caliendo, you have pointed out that in the Commission we accepted an amendment on your own, obviously for technical reasons, and it is the same technical reasons that push me to give an opinion against the rest. I therefore confirm the contrary opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u215	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u216	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u217	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u218	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u219	GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Mr President, I think it would be profoundly wrong to delete Article 4, because this article increases the penalties for certain crimes, such as trespassing, and it seems right to me that those who enter my house in a clandestine way should see their punishment increased; the same applies to house theft or robbery. I think it is right to increase the penalties and that it is equally right - and I hope that will be so - to ensure the certainty of the penalty, because it is okay to increase the penalties, but then those who are convicted must remain in jail until the last day of the sentence. This is because - and I am also referring to Article 2, which dealt with excessive manslaughter - I believe that all this defends what should be the spirit of the entire regulatory system, namely that defence is always legitimate and I do not have to explain to President Grasso what is the difference in what we believe, namely that defence is a natural right and is not a criminal and I do not have to explain what this entails in relation to and for the purpose of the burden of proof. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u220	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 4.5, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators, up to the words'(a) '. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 4.2 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.4, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators, identical to amendment 4,200, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.1, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u221	Mr President, if Senator Garnero Santanche had given me that explanation before, maybe I could have changed my mind. However, I maintain my deleterious amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u222	Mr President, I have only one comment on Articles 5, 6 and 7. These are increases in punishment compared to crimes the penalty of which was increased in August 2017. On some of these we and the League voted against in August 2017. I hope that, in order to be consistent, we will vote against a further increase in punishment, which will become quite ridiculous. People are already forced to buy the codes all the time, because a schizophrenic Parliament, less than a year later, increases the penalties. After really a few months it becomes something that doesn't even have the chance to be supported, because you can't even say that that increase didn't have any effect. In fact, none of us has any element of judgment and evaluation to say whether that increase in punishment has had an effectiveness of deterrent or not.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u223	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u224	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u225	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u226	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.1, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators, identical to Amendment 5.2, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 5.5, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators, up to the words " (a) ". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 5.3 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.4, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). In the third row, please remove the card from the electronic device in the absence of the colleague. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u227	Mr President, I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 6.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u228	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u229	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.1, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators, identical to amendments 6.2, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators, and 6,200, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 6.9, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators, up to the words'(a) '. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 6.3 to 6.5 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 6.6, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators, up to the words'(b) '. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 6.7 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 6.8, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 7, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u230	Mr President, it is curious to note that in the wording of this article reference is made to the fair appreciation of the judge; it is fair to appreciate that in the other articles of the draft law it is attempted to eliminate completely. Article 7 inserts a second paragraph in Article 2044 of the Civil Code: In the cases referred to in the second, third and fourth paragraphs of Article 52 of the Criminal Code, the liability of the person who made the case shall be excluded. Since the wording in force of the first paragraph of Article 2044 already prescribes that it is not responsible for those who cause the damage by self-defense or others - as we see it - the introduction turns out only a useless repetition and seems to reiterate a concept of punishableness, typical of the criminal headquarters, transferred to the civil seat. The rest of the article restores to the fair appreciation of the judge the compensation due to the damaged excess manslaughter of self-defense. Article 7 refers only to home self-defense, a strengthening hypothesis that will almost never find reason to exist if the rest of the reform passes. As Senator Ugo Grassi has well explained, the problem is to adapt criminal procedural rules to civil procedural rules, and this problem cannot be solved by the amendments tabled. The civil court, on the commission of a fact, always reserves the right to decide for the purpose of the damage, even if that fact is declared not punishable by the criminal court. So, from this point of view, we should review what is the difference between the two procedures, criminal and civil.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u231	Mr President, for Amendment 7.1, I would appeal to some of the experts I know, masters of civil law, the 5 Star Movement and the League, to say that this is a huge mistake. It is not possible that a lawful conduct, which does not need any penalty in criminal matters, becomes a conduct which can give rise to compensation in civil matters. Someone confused the criminal hypothesis of absolution due to insufficient evidence, what was once absolution due to insufficient evidence, with the hypothesis of absolution with full formula: the fact does not exist or the fact does not constitute a crime. The second paragraph of Rule 55 - as the rapporteur has written and as we voted on it - determines, where it appears, that the judge will give a judgment of acquittal because the fact is not a crime. So how does it get civilized compensation? I am merely recalling what appears from the same reports as the professors we have heard, who have clearly written that there can be neither criminal nor civil consequences. We invent civil compensation for lawful conduct. I don't understand the insistence. As I read that the present majority will ensure that we stay in Parliament for five years - at least Mr Salvini and Mr Di Maio tell us - that we will have a government for five years, I would just like to have the promise and the guarantee that in a few years' time, when this rule is considered wrong, we will come to this House and I will be told that I was right. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u232	We'll keep him in mind, Senator Caliendo. The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u233	Mr President, of course, with respect to this request for evaluation made by Senator Caliendo...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u234	He must never fall into the temptations of Senator Caliendo. We must always be careful and I address the representatives of the Commission whom you, with such dignity, are presiding over, because everyone remembers the past of the Commission's justice and the temptations not to fall into.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u235	Mr. President, I've had the opportunity to appreciate Senator Caliendo's talents. Nevertheless, I am opposed to all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u236	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u237	Very well, you have not fallen into temptation. I would refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.1, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators, identical to amendment 7.2, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.3, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.4, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.5, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators, which is essentially identical to amendment 7.6, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 7,200 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.7, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 7.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u238	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u239	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u240	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, in accordance with Rule 102 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, we would like to ask for a separate vote on Rule 7 because it consists of exactly two parts which are the subject of different judgments on our part. The first seems to us to be more flexible than the legislation in force, while the second part, which concerns the articulation of the concept of compensation, would find our favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u241	Unfortunately, we have voted for the deletion of the two chapters and, therefore, in fact, what you are asking for has already been voted on and, therefore, we cannot proceed. We must vote on the article in its entirety. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 8, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u242	Mr President, Article 8 introduces the possibility of the payment of fees for the defence of a person in respect of whom a storage order is issued or a judgment of no place to proceed or acquiesce in the case of self-defense. In the wording of the article proposed by the rapporteur - this is a very widespread request among the victims and associations of victims that we have heard - I have noted that the provision is limited only to cases of manslaughter in self-defense at home. So, since I do not agree with this limitation, I propose the deletion of Article 8 and I also propose the additional amendment 8.0.1, which replaces the article by introducing the possibility of winding up the fee for the defense of all persons to whom a storage order is issued, a judgment of no place to proceed, a discharge in the case of an excess of manslaughter for self-defense. The settlement of the burden of justice in this case is certainly an expression of state solidarity with the victims. The granting of legal aid under Article 8-a, in the event that the reimbursement of expenses for the self-defense of the previous article is not approved, is intended to be a way of in fact satisfying a lack of the State, the fact that it is not present to defend the safety, which has led to the need to defend itself. I believe, therefore, that it is an expression of solidarity of the State to propose, even in the case of self-defense or excessive manslaughter, admission to legal aid.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u243	I welcome on behalf of the House the representation of Members of Parliament, former Members of Parliament and Cambodian politicians, who are attending our work, together with human rights activists. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u244	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u245	Mr President, I am against all the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u246	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u247	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.1, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 8.2, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u248	I would ask for the vote and I would like to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u249	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u250	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, we will naturally vote in favour of this amendment tabled by the Senators of Forza Italia, which calls for the reimbursement of the costs of justice related to criminal proceedings - of course with the introduction of the right limits - against the person who exercised the right of defence. We know the events - some have also mentioned them, citing specific cases - of people who have painfully exercised the right to defence, with very serious disturbance and who knows with what consequences probably in the soul, which have been faced in some cases of the trials. I believe that when these people are paid at the end of the trial, it would be right to reimburse them for their expenses, since they have already had to suffer the very serious situation for which it has been recognized that they acted in self-defense and have had to make a gesture that can also expose them to revenge, because it is clear that we are talking about criminals. We believe that the refund request would really be to be shared and, as for coverage, you can surely find ways.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u251	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.3, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 8.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u252	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u253	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u254	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, I rise to announce the vote in favour of Article 8 and Amendment 8.0.1, which will be voted on later. The article responds to the needs, which are also expressed by the majority, to meet the costs of justice in favour of those involved in the situations under consideration. The additional amendment instead provides, among other things, for the derogation from the legal aid rule, establishing that, when someone is involved in this kind of process, he can benefit from legal aid, regardless of the limits imposed by the law on legal aid itself. As you know, legal aid is granted only to those who have a lower income than the statutory figures. In this case, given the subject matter and in order to respond to the needs that have been repeated also by the so-called sensitive subjects for this kind of event, it has been said to abolish the limit for this case. It seems to us that we are responding - as I said - to the needs expressed. I therefore believe that the majority must take charge of these matters.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u255	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u256	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u257	BUCCARELLA (Mixed). Mr President, in announcing the vote in favour of Article 8, I take this opportunity to draw the House's attention to one issue, as I did a few months ago during the previous parliamentary term, when the sacrosanct institution of legal aid was granted by the legislator to protect a category of legally weak people: I do not remember well if it was for minors, but it was nonetheless a commendable initiative. We're facing the same thing. I am obliged to invite the Assembly and the representative of the Government to bear in mind that the sacrosanct institution of legal aid for the poor, which would apply with the draft law that we are about to approve with the references relating to the liquidation procedures referred to in Articles 82 and 83 of the decree of the President of the Republic No 115 of 2002, operates in a scandalous way. Lawyers on the list of legal aid, including myself, are well aware that these professional skills are being paid off badly and, above all, very late. As evidence of this, to give an example, I have in hand a measure that a judicial authority notified me a few weeks ago for an application of 2013, and therefore after five years of professional activity. I say this not to complain or to take advantage of this assembly, but to bear in mind that, when we want to protect a weak category by extending the so-called free sponsorship, in reality, if the judicial bodies and the chancellors do not value it for what it must be, the institution of protection of the weak people risks being, instead of an incentive, a disincentive. You understand, in fact, that the professional who will have to defend the one who will have to answer and justify self-defense will not be particularly enticed, stimulated and motivated in the professional exercise, knowing that the benefit that is granted to the assisting party will turn against him and harm him from the professional point of view for the reasons that I have tried to expose. So, with this outburst of mine, I want to give a voice to thousands of lawyers, mostly young people, and citizens who suffer the mockery of living an apparent benefit as a curse that maybe you regret using. Therefore, it is a wish for us legislators and for the Commission, as far as its competence is concerned, to take action to ensure that in all Italian courts this sacrosanct institute functions in a dignified manner for professionals but also, directly and indirectly, for the citizens who benefit from it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u258	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.1, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 9, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u259	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u260	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u261	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). [[Senator Cirinna's begging to intervene]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I'm sorry, Senator Cirinna, but you're late. [[Comments of Senator Cirinna]] Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, we did not vote on Article 9 because Senator Cirinna was asking to speak. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call for the vote on Rule 9 to be cancelled, but only for the sake of courtesy and not because there is an obligation. I refer again to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u262	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u263	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u264	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, I am a signatory to Amendments 9,0.1 and 9,0.2. In particular, on Amendment 9.0.2 I would like the attention of the House and the Government. At a time when we are debating a text which should not simply be propaganda and - as you have said so far - does not serve to arm people, you should share this amendment which calls for tax relief, and therefore indirectly an incentive, for all those who want to have alarm or video systems. This really means making sure that we put in place destructive and deterrent actions and allow people who do not want to arm themselves - we have even heard a surreal discussion if with a weapon legally or illegally held - not to do so because, by providing security facilities, they can avoid everything you have talked about: the disturbance, the serious disturbance, the state of fear, the agitation. Let me give you a constructive example, since the government listens carefully to me. In some large municipalities, where public camera networks work, and work well, mayors extend the possibility to citizens who request it to place, certainly at their expense, the pole and the camera, but to introduce the images of those cameras into their public networks. So - let's take an easy example - the town of Cirinna puts the cameras around the chair of its home, pays them; the government hopes to give it a contribution, and those images end up, with the agreement of the municipality and the permission of the prefect, in the public images that go to the operational center of the municipality and are seen both by the city police and by the police authorities. This is one way - if by chance everything you have said today is true - to put in place a truly destructive action and really support those citizens who are afraid and who, however, do not want to arm themselves. Having said that, I shall end by taking the example that had been made earlier. Senator Dessì said, a senator goes home quietly. I mean, I don't know how quiet you can go home, because I understand, Senator Dessì, that you, according to your Senate file, are an entrepreneur and manager of a company. How does he get home quietly to his popular home where he shouldn't be, given his income? How does he get home quietly when he actually declared zero income if he owns a company? It doesn't seem that quiet. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u265	Senator Cirinna, this is not the subject of the discussion. Senator, while we are at it, do you insist on voting on the additional amendments to Article 9 which you have signed on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition? CIRINNA' (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.0.1, tabled by Senator Valente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.2 tabled by Senator Valente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.200, tabled by Senator Aimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9.0.201, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.201, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9.0.0202, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.202, tabled by Senator Cirinna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u266	Colleagues, I have bad news for you. Despite the catastrophic forecasts that we would have concluded tomorrow night the examination of the measure, we have now concluded the vote on the amendments. Therefore, the Conference of the Leaders convened at 5 p.m., which was necessary to organize the night session of today and probably tomorrow, will not be held and we will conclude the examination of the measure, before the time, already today. The question time for tomorrow's day remains confirmed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u267	We shall now proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u268	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u269	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u270	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, it is clear that in a rule of law it is not possible to punish those who have acted to defend themselves or others against unjust harm. If this reaction is proportional to the offence, the individual is granted a derogation from the State's monopoly on the use of force. In the absence of state protection, it is right that the individual should be able to defend himself without this being a crime. This, however, is already provided for in our legal system, which, in Article 52, provides for a cause of non-criminality, provided that the defence is proportional to the aggression and the fact that it is in progress. And even if these limits are exceeded, the person who acted by defending himself is punishable not for crimes such as murder or injury, but for a much milder crime, called excess manslaughter of self-defense. With the intention of giving the power to self-protection a particularly vast area when the aggression takes place in the domestic walls or in other private places, in 2006 was introduced in our criminal law the so-called legitimate home defense. It is a sort of presumption of self-defense, if it takes place in the places protected by Article 614 of the Criminal Code. In such cases the limits of proportionality are weakened when it is necessary to defend one's own or others' safety or property or others when there is no existence but a threat of aggression. All this is already in our order and we wonder why it should be changed. In fact, also the representatives of the judges and of the audit criminal chambers in the Justice Commission have stated that there is no need to intervene again on criminal law. Then one wonders why the Government calls for a debate on a problem that, in fact, does not exist. Why create in the population the feeling that can't even defend us when a thief enters the house? Perhaps all this belongs to an electoral plan of this Government to create fears and tensions and then propose itself as the salvation of an emergency that does not exist. The report accompanying the proposal says that case law would develop in the wrong direction and that jurisdiction has been left too much room. But the case law that developed after the introduction of home self-defense is fully acceptable. Apart from the fact that the judge must always be able to assess all the circumstances of the individual case and resolve it with the criteria provided by the legislator, there are very few fringes in which in the event of aggression the existence of legitimate defence has not been granted and those few cases are perfectly acceptable. It is clear that fraudulent or clandestine entry into the abode of the aggressor, in the absence of the aggression or exposure of the counterpart to a danger to his own life or safety, does not acquire importance to invoke the criminal of self-defense. It is precisely the self-defense of property that has rightly been the subject of rigorous assessments of the proportionality criteria. Since judgment No 32282 of 2006 the excess of self-defense has been contested for having exploded a gunshot from the window of the house against the fleeing victim; analogous position has expressed the Court of Cassation with the judgment n. 28802 of 2014, knowing that it is not legitimate defense when shooting from the window of its own home to prevent the theft of its own car. Despite this already complete regulatory framework, the measure under consideration introduces further cases of non-perpetuality, for example, that one always acts in a state of self-defense against the one who introduces himself violently into his own home or for the one who exceeds the limits of self-defense in order to be in a state of grave disturbance, i.e. a putative self-defense. That the defense of one's home is always legitimate is the belief of the League, but this approach is not acceptable. It's absurd to think that the judge can't start an investigation in front of a dead guy, a gunshot wounded guy. It is a proposal that changes the hierarchy of rights, placing the right to private property before the right to life. All this is detrimental to constitutional principles, but also to the reasonableness that must guide the criminal order. Moreover, the measure under discussion undermines the centrality of the Forces of Order and the principle that the monopoly of force is the exclusive prerogative of the State. However, more than any reflection on the fundamental principles, to say that this bill is entirely instrumental are the data of the Ministry of Justice: in five years, the proceedings under debate for the application of Article 52 of the penal code are counted on the fingers of the hands. Of course, in Italy there is a perception of insecurity that is often not supported by the real data on crimes: 32 percent of Italians perceive a crime risk in the area where they live and to be more concerned are the less well-off people, who live in more disadvantaged contexts. This perception, although not supported by objective data, nevertheless deserves attention from those who are in government. We therefore need more control and prevention where they are needed and then constant work on the outskirts, which is why it is important that the Commission has maintained its commitment by restoring the funds provided by previous governments. However, the measure under discussion, in view of this, namely to give citizens a greater sense of security, is really of little use and will instead feed a message for which citizens must protect themselves. It is a grave and profoundly dangerous message. For all these reasons, I announce the Group's vote against the Autonomies. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD and Senator Errani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u271	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u272	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u273	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, self-defense is a very sensitive subject, because it is a derogation from the use of force which is normally reserved for the State. The Latin broccoli says it clearly: vim repel you licet, it is lawful to give back violence to those who put it against you. In dealing with the possible reform of this institute it is therefore appropriate to consider the specific aspects and also the wider ones of impact on the whole set of rules that govern our common living. In other words, in an attempt to correct the current legislation, should it really be considered necessary (and we have shown that it is not, because it is not urgent and the cases are scattered in our courts), we must not risk irreparably altering our system of law, its ratio and its consistency. In other words, in our country they have no right to citizenship, neither vengeance, nor the subjective death penalty. The serious damage, as well as at the regulatory level, is also at the cultural level. Your propaganda is making people believe that it will be permissible to shoot in their own home and while not touching the specific rules - we have said - will inevitably produce an increase of weapons in circulation in our country. I repeat: more weapons no longer means security. We know that this increases the possibility of accidents of all kinds, at a time when crimes have been decreasing for years. I remind the Senators of the Movimento 5 Stars what Di Maio and Di Battista said in 2015. He wrote Di Maio on Facebook: "A serious state (...) should not allow an individual to hold (...) weapons at home. The holding of weapons must be drastically reduced. So Di Battista replied: "Bravissimo Luigi. In the U.S., they buy in supermarkets. We're on our way to that kind of company. We will try hard not to allow it in our country. Well, you're doing exactly the opposite, colleagues 5 Stars. Obedient to the demands of your ally, you are dancing on the music of the League, denying your principles. This is also borne out by the withdrawal of the timid amendments that had been tabled, both in the Commission and in this House, and we now understand better the sense of the Government of Change. It is only that agreements and contracts outside this House humiliate and render non-existent, as some theorized, the parliamentary function. The refusal of any exploitation in a general way of presumption of the private infliction of the death penalty - this is what it is - on the basis of absolute presumptions of proportionality on the sole sufficient allegation of a state of psychic disturbance, even if serious. Trying to give normative form to concepts of a subjective nature, such as the disturbance, therefore linked to states of mind of the aggressor, is really dangerous. What's that supposed to mean? Who is more fearful and more fearful can shoot? Can you shoot more? It is obvious that this is an excessive hypothesis. Let us not forget that, as I have already said, in accordance with Article 90 of the Criminal Code, emotional and passional states do not exclude or diminish the countervailable. Article 3 of the reform then amends Article 165 of the Criminal Code in the matter of the sentenced person's obligations, in the case of a conviction for theft in the home or with rip-off, pursuant to Article 624 bis of the Criminal Code. The benefit of the conditional suspension of the sentence would however be subject to an economic requirement: only those who can afford the compensation can have access to the benefit of the conditional suspension of the sentence for this crime. At present, however, Article 165 of the Criminal Code leaves to the discretion of the judge the possibility to suspend the sentence, making it subject to the payment of compensation. Once again we want to eliminate the discretion and fair appreciation of the judge, manifesting the absolute lack of trust and contempt for a judicial function, which deserves instead respect and consideration. The unified text would achieve an instrumentalization of the derogation of the use of force by the State - we have said - putting on the same level, if not even in a degree of inferiority, the institutions and the Forces of order in the legitimate use of weapons. The measure in question, if approved, would elevate the self-defense as a criminal to a sort of punitive claim for anyone who dares to violate his domicile, automatically and chronologically determining very risky effects on the coherence of the judicial system, eliminating the discretion of the judge and - we have been told by all the operators of the audit law - opening the way to dangerous absolute and generalized presumptions. Finally, it would be the certification of a failure. It is the State, in fact, that must ensure the safety and safety of each citizen and it is certainly not by arming the citizens that the institutions can even imagine filling their shortcomings, such as the cuts in the resources to be allocated to the police forces and the recruitment of new police officers, as it is about to happen, on the basis of the anticipations that have come to us on the budgetary maneuver. Paradoxically, the opposite effect would be realized, because if we encourage the increase in the number of weapons in circulation, we can only increase the number of violent episodes, so as to feed spirals of violence between attackers and aggressors. Moreover, as many of the associations of audition victims - pharmacists, tobacconists, petrol stationers, jewellers - have had the opportunity to point out unnecessarily in response to predatory attacks and armed robbery, it is not a matter of doing justice, nor of encouraging the use of weapons, but rather of finding solutions for prevention, control of the territory and conflict by the police forces, in order to reduce the risks to the safety of the citizens who may be present. In particular, audit subjects have requested direct collaboration with the Forces of Order through protocols of understanding, which also take care of the training on the actions to be put in place in the case of danger, rather than written reactions. The suggestion is not to react to avoid endangering even the people present. Funding has been requested to implement the video surveillance of the exercises, as well as greater certainty of the penalty. Moreover, it has been called for - a truly logical and sensible thing - to reduce, if not the complete elimination of cash through the use, free of charge for the operator, of electronic money. For all these reasons, I announce the vote against the Free and Equal members of the Mixed Group and I appeal to the sensitivity of the majority senators. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u274	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u275	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u276	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the centre-right programme clearly stated that defence is always legitimate. Today we approve a text which, while improving the legislation in force, cannot be said to implement this principle. The text we are approving today is only a pale reminder of what was written in the centre-right programme. It still leaves wide discretion to the magistrate, especially when the magistrate should identify this serious disturbance and, I repeat, we are not able to understand, in the head of the majority, how it can be determined when a disturbance is more serious, less serious, lighter. Obviously, the magistrates will give the reading they want, pulling the norm like an elastic on the side they will prefer. You preferred to remain anchored to this completely objectionable and subjective criterion, rather than to approve our amendment, which proposed instead to rely on an objective criterion, which would take into account the modalities of the action of the aggressor and certainly not the state of mind, which is very difficult to demonstrate, of the attacker. You wanted to keep the wording that requires the aggressor to evaluate circumstances that are difficult to assess by a person who is surprised at home, i.e. whether or not the aggressor is in possession of weapons or other means of co-operation, rejecting our amendment which was simply asking to assess whether there was an attack in progress with violence or threat, or not. You have even rejected the amendment that asked not to limit the domestic defense to the case of legitimate possession of weapon, because when one is in danger of life you can also defend with a weapon that does not legitimately possess: I have made the concrete case of that citizen who, completely in good faith, had modified the barrel of his rifle and if he had defended himself in that case, according to this rule, should respond to voluntary murder. I mean, short story short, it's a serious League surrender to the five-star ally. The 5 Stars have tried - and have succeeded to a large extent - to water down this law as much as possible and today we find ourselves with a text that does not solve much of the criticalities and above all does not allow citizens to defend themselves in their own home, as it would be right to recognize it. It is said that in a rule of law the monopoly of the legitimate use of force belongs only to the State. We agree with this principle, but we believe that there is an exception, which goes in the direction of the natural right to defend itself at home: when the State fails to guarantee the safety of citizens, citizens must have the right to defend themselves without evaluating thousands of conditions and circumstances that still this law requires them to assess and that only those who have taken a course for personal security, perhaps, would be able to assess. You see, ladies and gentlemen, the point is that defending oneself at home is a right and no one can question this right. Unfortunately, by adopting the law in this text we do not go in the direction of natural law, we do not go in the direction of security, we do not go in the direction of the attack, but once again we stop halfway. The Brothers of Italy Group will vote in favour of this law only because it is a step in the right direction, even if, in our opinion, it is still too timid, a step still insufficient. We would have liked the League on this point to respect the commitments it had made with the voters, because in our opinion, dear colleagues of the League, the commitments made with the voters are worth more than a commitment made in a government contract. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u277	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u278	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u279	VALENT (PD). Mr President, for months now, the current Government has been talking about security as its absolute priority. For months, you have been telling us that Italians will be safer with you because you will not set aside a millimeter on this ground. Today, with this measure, you show how little those promises of yours are worth, how far away those promises are from the facts, how far the propaganda is from the reality. We, in the face of all this, could just show how and how, in these difficult hours for you but especially for the country, you use this flag measure to cover the disasters that you are consuming on the skin of Italians. We could make it clear and clear how able you are to manufacture and play with the question of protection and fear, and then ride it to your use and consumption exclusively to increase your consent. We could even more and more simply tell you that you are unlucky, that this time you did not particularly well. In fact, after ignoring the data on the impact assessment provided by our offices, here in the Senate, that speak of numbers close to zero of procedures and trials framed for cases of self-defense or manslaughter, just in these hours, while you are busy bringing home two of your measures symbol on the topic of security, the data on crimes, those that grow and those that decrease, demonstrating how those that you take as priorities are falling, while those that you deliberately continue to ignore grow. Thefts in homes decrease by 9 percent compared to the past years and not because the citizens have armed themselves or defended themselves with weapons; not because in the homes of the Italians they turn more weapons; not because the Italians disappear more. Thefts go down because there are more alarm systems and video surveillance, because agreements between police forces on the ground work, because efficient networks of communication between traders and law enforcement forces have been created. Does that mean there's no security problem? Absolutely not, also because, as I said, as you drop those you deliver to your propaganda, unfortunately others increase, which you continue to ignore. In short, we could show you how what you are trying today is once again a skillful maneuver for your consent machine, but nothing more. But I have too much respect for this House, for the work done in the Commission, for those who have worked on the substance of this text to stop these assessments. And then I want to tell you, in the few minutes that I have, because this text, in addition to being a propaganda text, is a measure in merit absolutely and clearly ineffective, but above all, more serious, it is a dangerous measure, played on the skin of Italians, which instead of giving more security makes all Italians more insecure. You, with this measure, in fact, answer the question of greater protection essentially leaving all Italians more alone in the face of their fears; more alone in their homes, in their shops, in their homes; more alone, more exposed to risk. Tell them, in essence: arrange, the State does not make it, think about it alone, defend yourselves as you can and as you think, the State cannot take charge of you. That's what you're saying. You who claim to be a sovereignist and statist force, you who say you want to challenge Europe in order to have more resources to invest in security, then take away one of its most important tasks from the state and its joints: to protect citizens and to guarantee their security. But then, as if that weren't enough, add the mockery to the damage. I'll explain the damage later. The mockery: you today, to a text that already allowed a citizen to defend himself if attacked in his own home, excluding his punishableness, provided that in the presence of certain conditions, add the false promise that, however, they will defend themselves, in whatever way they will, the State will not prosecute them. Mr President, they promise impunity and make it aware that they are promising something that is not in their readiness, it is not in the willingness of this Government and it is not in the willingness of this Parliament. Dear colleagues of the League, you are mocking the Italians. That of non-trial is a fair and good lie, because there is no reform that will ever ensure that no investigation has been made of the circumstances in which a crime occurred. We proposed to intervene on the filing request. Because it's right to worry that self-defense trials have a quick, fast conclusion if possible. But this reform does not contain anything that goes in this direction. Nothing. [[Applause from the PD Group]] By doing so, however, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you are only trying to remove any margin of discretion and discretion from the judge. Only that assessing the proportionality between offense and defense is not a whim of someone, it means avoiding that inside the walls of the house is worth the absolute freedom to shoot and always. As you wrote this rule, I can see a shadow in my garden, shoot and kill, without really understanding what's going on, where and why. This is self-defense for you. This Parliament returns to talk about self-defense after 12 years. You had already put your hands on it in 2006; you remembered it. You are moving in the same direction as then, doing only further damage, because you rewrite a rule that will increase the problems to those who have to invoke it in order to justify his behavior and above all, even more, to those who, by force, however and always, will have to assess it in order to understand whether and how to apply it to each case examined. Here's the joke. But now we come to the damage, which may be even worse. Mr President, with this bill, the majority sends a very dangerous message to the country: repression in the hands of citizens. The state's rowing in the boat, and on security, it lets the citizens do it. It is an irresponsible choice that will only and only pay the citizens themselves. We will have unprepared citizens, who are given, and in some way encouraged, the use of weapons that they will obviously not be able to handle. In your opinion, ladies and gentlemen - and I ask you quite frankly - in a possible armed confrontation, who will be colder, more prepared to handle the situation and who will risk their lives more: the criminal who will have considered being able to find himself in that circumstance or the private citizen, if anything surprised in his sleep, with his family in the next room? [[Applause from the PD Group]] In the vast majority of cases, that citizen probably never used a weapon in his life. Members of the majority seem to be the only ones who do not know how to answer this question. Prove that the data of the other countries are worth nothing to you, that these models, alas, have already experienced them, with truly dramatic numbers; that it is not worth the appeal of these hours of the Forces of Order; that it is not worth what professors, magistrates and experts have said, that they have expressed so many criticisms and doubts and have asked us not to change the norm. But they are not worth - and this is really absurd - what the victims or potential victims have said, which we also audited in the Commission and never, ever, have asked for justice to be done on their own. They have never asked for less state, they have always asked, if anything, for more state: a more friendly state and more present in guaranteeing their security. We, in the Commission before and again in this House, have made concrete proposals to go in this direction: you have rejected them all, preferring to continue your wretched propaganda. We regret the 5 Star Movement, which still presented corrective amendments to the Commission until a few days ago, and then ended up putting the reverse and withdrawing them. I say this sincerely with respect for my colleagues in the Commission and with regret for the work that they often try to do, unfortunately unnecessarily, the individual colleagues of the 5 Stars in the Commission: a diktat of the Ministry of the Interior was enough, then a quick meeting in Via Arenula, and the poor colleagues of the Movimento in the Commission realized that they had worked empty for days. Mr President, the country that comes out of the text that we are debating is a country where violence is chosen to respond with violence, where a crime can be answered with another crime, where the State does not intervene to prevent or prevent, but grants impunity when the damage, the worst one, is now done. This is not the country that wants the Democratic Party. The Democratic Party remains faithful to the idea that the only possible response is that for which security, and therefore the use of force, is always and exclusively the responsibility of the State. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This means, however, that the problem is faced with more investments: more resources, above all, to our forces of order; more investments to combat degradation, marginality, abandonment. This is the way and only in this way; what you think you are building is a state made up of vigilant citizens. All our amendments went in that direction and you rejected them all. For these reasons, we will vote against the measure, which once again tries to defend that pact of interest which you call contract, where there is no Italy, there are no citizens, their interests are not covered and less their security. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u280	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the High School of Sanctis Galilei in Manduria, in the province of Taranto, who are attending our work from the stands. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u281	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u282	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u283	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to make some clarity about the speeches I have heard because, on the one hand, I have heard of the West, of the vigilant citizens, of the dangerous measure, while on the other hand, I have heard that it is a watered-down measure. This means that clearly common sense lies in the middle, that is, in the measure that we have taken. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] I would like to stress this, as I would stress the fact that there has been no exploitation of the fear of citizens, as we have read in the minority report. It was the facts of the news, the aggressions in private homes and commercial establishments, which took place with particular violence, which in many cases did not spare neither the elderly nor children, who induced the League (we say it without problems) and the representatives of the 5 Star Movement, this Government, to want to intervene, because perhaps at the legislative level something had to be changed. Perhaps the existing provisions were not such as to be able to counteract these phenomena. It is true that it is the State that is responsible for the repression: we would miss it. We have always said this, we have repeated it and we are repeating it today in this House. But what to do when the state cannot or cannot intervene? What to do in cases where there is an imminent danger and there is the impossibility of intervening to stop a criminal fact through the prompt intervention of the Forces of the Order? Wouldn't we want to put a cop in every house and then hear ourselves say we're not against the militarization of our cities? Where the state fails to act and there is no timeliness, we need to provide our own legal system with an instrument that can be effective and that allows citizens to defend themselves. Otherwise, the institution of self-defense would not be included in the penal code: it would never have been introduced; if it was done, obviously there was a reason. Unfortunately, today's rule fails to meet the real needs, because in its various interpretations - I must say jurisprudential - it has revealed its inapplicability and its ineffectiveness. We say this because we remember that we did that law, so we take the responsibility to say, today, that we have made a law and we have noticed in time that, for an interpretation that was given by the judiciary, unfortunately it did not work and, by intelligent people as we are, we say: let's correct it, let's change it. That is the approach we have taken, because we cannot allow the wrongdoing to pass. That is why we have spoken. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Therefore, in line with our electoral programme and the government contract, we introduce the principle of presumption of self-defense: a presumption that shows that proportionality between defence and offense is always recognised. This is the novelty introduced by our measure. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We did so precisely in order to overcome that discretionary power of judges in assessing the proportionality of acts carried out by the attacker and the attacked citizen. What's unreasonable about all this? The minority report says that this is an unreasonable measure. Perhaps the laws and regulations in countries such as Great Britain and Germany, which are often referred to by you, are unreasonable, because they are the countries to inspire us in Europe? On Britain, after Brexit, you have changed a little' idea, but the spirit is always to refer to countries that already have these regulations. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Well, we have taken these very countries as a reference, where there is no principle of proportionality between defence and offense. It is not true, then, that there will be no more trials. Also heard: "There will be no more trials", "Justice do it yourself," "We are ruining our rule of law", "The State has failed": these are some of the comments contained in the speeches carried out in today's debate. Even so, someone thought that with our measure we could go and buy guns at the supermarket, something we have often heard from the media. Of course there will be trials, with all the stages of verification; only that they will be immediate and will no longer be as before, so there will be an interpretation, but the judge will have to adhere to the clear provisions of the legislation. We made life easier for our judiciary. We didn't make it complicated. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In the bill, among other things, we also foresee higher penalties for those who commit thefts in homes, robberies and home invasions, with the obligation of compensation for the damage done to the victims, because it was urgent and necessary - we say this because it is another distortion of what has been seen over the years - to eliminate those absurd requests for reimbursement from the criminals and their relatives. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] I do not want to make it too long, but the minority report also states that increases in penalties are not a deterrent, because experience goes in this direction. I don't know. The data should be carefully evaluated. What we are sure and sure of, as a League, is that they are not a deterrent and have never represented it the indults and depenalizations made in the course of history certainly not on this political side. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] We don't belong to that culture. We want those who are wrong to really pay and do not want to find them out, as it happens all too often, perhaps to recommence the same crimes, also because we could say a lot about the education system, but we know very well that we do not have time. For all these reasons, in a very simple and clear way and with great tranquility, without shouting, screaming and raising the tones, we carried out the measure. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the President of the Commission, all the members of the Commission, both of a majority and of a minority, who have tried to make the appropriate changes, and those of our Group, who have done so very well, and as the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group, we are announcing a positive and - let me say - legitimate vote. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] . Many congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u284	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u285	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u286	CALIENDO (FI-BP). Mr President, the question of the need for reform of self-defense was in the centre-right electoral programme. Perhaps Senator Romeo forgot this passage, in referring to the government contract, which came later. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Thanks to the League, self-defense has entered that government contract. We had drawn up, Senator Romeo, a self-defense a little wider so that there was no longer any of the problems that have left the victims of home invasion, entry into homes and aggression, people who have been exposed, on the one hand, to these acts and, on the other, to the need to defend themselves. It has just been pointed out that it is necessary, however, not a trial, but a criminal procedure, that is, the preliminary phase, because, if the rules are clear, in the preliminary phase of the investigation it is possible to arrive at a request for storage. It is with this logic that we have helped to give specific indications of amendment. First of all, in the logic - which was common to us, Senator Romeo - of an effective legitimate defense, we felt to write a right of defence, as Nordio had argued in the reform of the penal code, which had a specific consequence: to affirm the right of defence means to delegate the accusation to have to prove the elements of responsibility that do not recognize the legitimate defense, instead exempting the victim from what is today the reality. Today the assaulted guy is forced to prove all the conditions of self-defense and therefore to suffer a possible trial even for manslaughter or manslaughter and is subject to this long draw before closing his chapter with justice. Secondly, I would like to remind you very much of a fact that really has bothered me a little, because if, on the one hand, we tried to improve the text, you wanted to restrict it to this minimal correction hypothesis, on which, however, we voted in favour, in the interests of the citizens and on the basis of a programme and the idea of having to reform the 2006 text, which was the result of a joint elaboration but which did not have the effect hoped for, for a case-law which considered that it did not have to apply what the rules already laid down and which today is being strengthened with a "always". But, excuse me, how can you return to our places in the North, Senator Romeo, where we will have to go and tell the citizens that self-defense has been recognized, because it is legitimate to react, but, when you react and by chance the attacker will suffer an injury, you will be, obliged to pay him compensation? This is incredible. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Do you realize the absurdity? It is absurd and it is wrong from the technical-legal point of view, because, if what has been written is a rule of non-penalty in the criminal field and therefore there is no criminal responsibility, there can be no source of civil responsibility. But at the same time, even if we leave the right alone, I believe that he shouts revenge in the eyes of the citizens that we are doing a reform of self-defense to ensure greater security and greater protection and then we condemn the poor Christ to pay compensation to the aggressor. It is a thing that is neither in heaven nor on earth. You then increased your penis further; but they are 2007 penis. Do you want to tell me how you want to carry out a talk of deterdence on these increased penis, if we don't even know what effect those previous ones have had? In fact, none of us has an element of evaluation. But the most serious thing is that you have not understood, having increased the penalty for trespassing in the hypothesis referred to in the fourth paragraph of Article 614 of the Criminal Code, that only a violence on things is enough to come back in this case. This means that if I, separated from my wife, go into my wife's house, which changed the lock, and force the door with a screwdriver to enter, I perform a home invasion that today is punished with imprisonment from two to six years. Do you realize that the judge will no longer be able to assess the seriousness of the matter and balance the sentence? Instead, we had proposed that you avoid all this and that you realize that in this case it was enough to leave the judge with the balance assessment that is being prevented today. We had then asked for a sentence of two to six years to be punished for trespassing in order to commit another crime. This is the thing you have to realize: we must not punish the trespassing, which is already punished, but we must punish her for a different crime, which in this case is the crime of assault, theft and beautiful company. Finally, I would like to remind everyone that Forza Italia voted for or against the amendments, assessing each proposal, but then voted in favour of all the articles, except those which envisaged an increase in penalties. Those increases in punishment are not justified. You did not want to give us a concrete reason for some shortcomings in the text. The motivation cannot be to say that you have already made an assessment. What does that mean? Giving a motivation means having the opportunity to meet, evaluate together, discuss and find the best solution in the interests of citizens. And instead we find ourselves with a text that comes to this absurdity. In the event of an increase in the case referred to in Article 628 of the Criminal Code, i.e. the robbery committed with a disabled defence by the people, we suggested that you introduce in the new second paragraph of Article 55 of the Criminal Code a hypothesis of self-defense provided by law: you said no. What's the reason? I'm going home without knowing the reason. The vote in favour of the bill for our examination is then only a vote given to those small modifications that we hope are such that they can be interpreted and valued by the jurisprudence in order to compensate for those few shortcomings that still exist. This is the reason why we voted in favour, with the hope that there will be the possibility of introducing some correction with respect to the most serious hypothesis, that is, the one concerning the possibility of compensation. I hope that this will be corrected in the House. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u287	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u288	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u289	URRARO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the reform of the Institute of Self-Defense is absolutely felt to be a necessity on the part of large sectors of public opinion. The need for protection within one's home sphere, in defense of the inviolable rights of the person is a priority that the current majority intends to pursue through the approval of this bill. The institute of self-defense is one of the causes of justification of the crime and finds its foundation in the need for self-protection of the person who manifests himself when, in the absence of the ordinary protection provided by the law, a derogation from the monopoly of the State of the use of force is recognized, in respect of the brocardo vim vi repellare licet, within certain limits. The last reformist intervention on this point took place in 2006 with the approval of Law No. 59 which introduced the so-called enlarged self-defense which, through the reference to Article 614 of the Criminal Code, strengthens the right to self-protection in a private domicile, as well as within any other place where a commercial, professional or entrepreneurial activity is exercised, establishing an absolute presumption about the existence of the requirement of the proportion between offense and reaction in this hypothesis. The case law following the 2006 reform demonstrated, moreover, the substantial irrelevance, for the purposes of the configurability of the criminal in question, of the legal presumption introduced for the infringement of the domicile. This presumption affects only the requirement of proportion, not weakening the need on the part of the judge to ascertain the existence of other requirements such as the present danger, the unjust offense and the necessity and inevitability of the defensive reaction and, in the case of defence of the goods in the conditions provided for in the first and second paragraphs of Article 614, the non-dexistence by the aggressor and the danger of aggression. The need for an extension of the institution's operation was thus ignored. There have been various and vain legislative interventions aimed at reforming the institution in the legislation that followed after the amendment of 2006, but no one has, unfortunately, come to its completion. A number of attempts - in my view, fortunately - have seen the interruption of the approval process after Parliament' s reading. In fact, we remember very well the attempt to reform the institute set up in the last parliamentary term, where a text was approved that provided for the criminal to intervene in cases of reaction to an aggression committed during the night. Well, this proposed reform of the institution has many other objectives. Criminal law is essentially political choice even before judicial, and it inevitably is when we talk about choices regarding criminal law in the special part, that is, the catalog of crimes that change continuously because what was once a crime today is no longer a crime, and vice versa; but also and especially in the general part, which is the one that gives the structure to the entire system of punishment and punishment. In order to clarify how and how the measure has been concerted and the intensive work carried out in the various forums where the measure has been dealt with, I would like to inform the House of the procedure for approving the measure in the Commission. At the beginning of the legislature was assigned the bill of popular initiative, number 5, and subsequently were joined to examine the various draft laws of parliamentary initiative. In relation to the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate that has reported the criteria for assigning the drafts of law, this has been assigned in writing. Seven draft laws were then combined with the examination and a full cycle of hearings was prepared in the Commission, which allowed the intervention of teachers of substantive and procedural law, associations of victims, illustrious magistrates and institutional representatives of the lawyer. The unified text drawn up by the rapporteur was the result of this profound work of inquiry and consultation of the majority groups in the Commission Justice. I would like to point out that the debate in the Commission has not been limited at all, and I would therefore like to respond to those senators who have raised concerns about the timing of the examination of the measure: they will certainly know that this has been made necessary by the regulation (Article 74 (3)) which requires, in connection with the examination of the draft laws of popular initiative, that they should be framed in the House within three months of the allocation to the Commission, and that its examination in the Commission should begin no later than one month after the referral. The legislative choice that the current majority wanted to pursue was to extend the scope of the criminal in question, obviously remaining always in the wake of the dictation of the Constitutional Charter and of what has been established at international level. This draft law seeks to resolve the interpretative problems of the 2006 novella, on the one hand clarifying, in the cases referred to in the second paragraph of Article 52 of the penal code, the absolute nature of the presumption regarding the ratio of defense to offense, and then establishing an absolute presumption of legitimate defense, referring to all the elements of the criminal, in cases of refusal of a violent intrusion or with threats of use of weapons by one or more persons. In addition, the criteria for the judge's assessment in the context of the excess of manslaughter are objectiveized, excluding the punishableness in the presence of the conditions provided for in Article 61, first paragraph, number 5), of the penal code, therefore having the guilty person profited of circumstances of time, place or person, even in relation to the age, such as to hinder the public or private defence, or a serious disturbance deriving from the situation of danger in place in the cases of legitimate housing defense. The more objective the assessment criteria of the judge are (I would point out that this does not affect the principle of the free conviction of the same, desumable from Articles 25 and 111 of the Constitution, and it is in line with the provisions of Article 101, paragraph 2 of the Constitution, which provides that judges are subject only to the law), the closer we are to the spirit of legitimate defence, that is, the principle of defence and private self-protection surrogating the power of the public authority that could not intervene. In addition, the draft law that is intended to be approved responds to a real need of the company, that is that in cases of conviction for the crimes of theft in the home and theft with snatching the granting of the conditional suspension of the sentence must be subject to the full compensation of the damage to the person offended by the crime. The protection of those who have defended themselves within their home walls, or in the appliances of it, also goes from a safeguard from an economic point of view. It does not therefore seem reasonable that those who have defended should suffer economic damage. In fact, the principle of raising the aggressor who has defended himself from all expenses and burdens of justice seems to us to be an inescapable principle to which we do not feel to give up. For this reason, this bill provides for exemption from procedural costs. It is a fundamental principle of the bill and is reasonably justified as an expression of solidarity on the part of the State, which has failed to protect a subject within its own domestic walls, that is, in the appliances of the same, from an aggression, perhaps when the subject offended by the crime was in condition of disabled defense, in bed and possibly with the minor children next door. Also in relation to the protection of the damaged from the economic point of view, this proposal introduces two paragraphs in the current Article 2044 of the Civil Code, which dictates the so-called civilistic discipline of self-defense. The legislation on compensation is updated, excluding the liability of those who have committed the event in the case of self-defense at home. The ratio of the reformer intervention can be seen in the root elimination of any compensation claim if there has been absolution in the criminal process. The second provision which is intended to be introduced in the new third paragraph of Article 2044 of the Civil Code provides that, in cases of manslaughter, the injured person is granted compensation calculated by the judge with fair appreciation but objectiveizing the areas of his assessment by means of strict criteria regarding the seriousness, the manner of execution and the causal contribution of the conduct carried out by the injured person. A further vulnus will be filled by the adoption of the proposal by means of an amendment to the implementing rules of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I refer to the priority in the formation of the roles of hearings of the trials relating to the crimes of manslaughter and of manslaughter where the circumstances provided for in Articles 52, paragraphs 2, 3 and 4, and 55 (2) of the Criminal Code exist. Therefore, if it should be established, the process will certainly be in line with its reasonable duration. In conclusion, with the approval of this bill, we hope that there are no longer the various Francos, Graziano, Francescos, who, on the one hand, had to face an exhausting and customary trial and, on the other, spend a large amount of money and then maybe be recognized innocent after a social and judicial ordeal lasted years. Therefore, in thanking the Commission, the President and his individual members for all the fruitful work they have done over the past few weeks, I am voting in favour of the draft law. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u290	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the unified text of the draft law no. 5, 199, 234, 253, 392, 412, 563 and 652, with the following title: "Changes to the penal code and other provisions in the matter of self-defense" (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az, FI-BP and FdI Groups.]] He asked the government representative to speak for some thanks. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u291	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the President of the Justice Commission and the rapporteur for the measure, Senator Andrea Ostellari, for his excellent work. Secondly, I would like to thank the Commission's offices and the President's staff for their valuable support over the past few weeks. I would remind you that work on this measure began on 8 August with the first hearings. Today, two to three months later, we are about to approve it in this House at first reading. VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. We just approved it! Mr Morrone, State Secretary for Justice. I would also like to thank my colleagues from the majority of the Movimento 5 Stars for their active cooperation in improving the text. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Finally, I would also like to thank the Members who sit on the opposition benches for their contribution. I recall, in fact, that the text presented wanted to be the synthesis between several draft laws on this subject also presented by them. I am therefore satisfied with the result achieved. This measure, in my opinion, is useful to the community, responding concretely to a widespread demand from the Italian population. This was, in fact, the driving force that led us to bring this measure to approval... [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u292	Mr Undersecretary, I have to ask you, please, to stick to your thanks only, otherwise yours will become an intervention on the measure and that is not possible. Please be courteous. However, we very much appreciate your thanks.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u293	Mr President, we just wanted to thank all those people and associations who contributed to the drafting of this measure, in particular professional associations. [[Protests from the PD Group]] I just wanted to list people and then I shut up, and I promise the opposition. Robertino Zancan... [[Vivacious protests from the PD Group]] A little respect, please! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u294	Mr Undersecretary, there is respect in this House for everyone, and I should like to call for respect if necessary. Please allow me to finish with the thanks.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u295	Mr Morrone, State Secretary for Justice. I asked to intervene earlier. I conclude by thanking the victims: Robertino Zancan, Graziano Stacchio, Francesco Siciliano, Franco Birolo, Rodolfo Corazzo, Alberto Torregiani and all those who contributed. I also thank the opposition. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Warm protests from the PD and Mixed-LEU groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u296	I think I have correctly told the Undersecretary and the time when the victims are thanked does not seem to me to be the right time to interrupt an intervention. [[Reiterate protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u297	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u298	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u299	ROJC (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the House's attention because Alojz Rebula, one of the most important voices in Slovenian and European literature, disappeared last night. Born in Trieste in 1924, teacher of classical letters, theologian, essayist, philosopher, translator, for generations of students and also for me a great teacher. His work, of which a small part included in Italy by important publishers such as São Paulo before and The ship of Theseus, is of great literary, aesthetic, moral, historical and touches the great themes of humanity. Starting from the classical world, he later places himself within the search for the divine; a faith, his, not lived as grace, but as a continuous and painful search for the truth. Rebula was also a great scholar of Dante, who considered a planetary phenomenon, a master of style who erected to the Slovenian language, his mother tongue forbidden him from fascism, an unparalleled monument. In the 1960s he said that the language is nothing but life itself and this will be a real programmatic manifesto for him. He has been awarded the highest recognitions in Slovenia, Italy and abroad: among others he is also a great official of the Italian Republic. With the disappearance of this extraordinary spirit a great witness of the twentieth century is missing. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u300	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u301	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u302	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, I would just like to echo Mr Rojc's words at this moment of remembrance. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u303	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u304	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u305	BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I asked to speak for a few minutes at the end of the sitting to point out the certainly paradoxical situation in which our country has been in since 2001. I realize that it is a technical issue, but it directly invests over 700,000 Italian citizens and all Italians who are interested in the management of the migrant bird in our country and in particular in all the countries of the Mediterranean basin. Since 2001, the so-called scientific data, which I do not consider to be such, proposed to Europe by our country constitute that migratory birds are more early than about a month and a half than the same migratory ones of the other countries of the Mediterranean basin. Science is serious and can have nothing paradoxical. Unfortunately we are in this situation and it is responsible for a choice, which I consider more political than non-scientific, carried out at the time by the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA) or, better to say, by the institution that used to be called in a different way and that today has become ISPRA. The aim of the intervention is to indicate two types of needs. Firstly, I have tabled today a question, of which I hope the answer will come quickly and we do not follow the procedure that was adopted for a question which was tabled in August, more or less on the same subject, which to date has received no reply from the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea. Secondly, since, by the end of October, our Ministry of the Environment has to report to the European Commission the new data and the revision of these scientific data, I hope that once and for all it will be done seriously and we will adapt ourselves to the scientific data of the other countries and of all the Italian university institutes, so that there will be a homogeneity, in order to take into account the phases of life of migratory birds. If the approach were to continue to be that for which Italy dissociates itself from the rest of the European scientific world and from all the Italian university institutes that have worked in this direction we would again be faced with a political choice, which instead must be completely abandoned, because we must all stick, even in the interests of biodiversity, to scientific data and to the general interest. We can no longer be ridiculed, at European level, for how Italy has been up to now and for how unfortunately it is likely to be in the years to come. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u306	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u307	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u308	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, without any controversy, I think it is right, however, to demand that the Presidency's behaviour be strictly consistent with its prerogatives. I personally had the opportunity, a few months ago, to stress that a speech by President Alberti Casellati on our request for a secret vote, in particular by giving its own interpretation of political opportunity on that vote, did not belong to the prerogatives of the President. Today, just now, while the Undersecretary recalled the victims related to facts related to the legislation on self-defense, she allowed herself to say that our complaints were not appropriate, because at that time the victims were being remembered. We leave to the acts that there is full respect for those victims and maximum closeness to the families of those victims of the Democratic Party, but once again the role of the President assumes almost a moralizing role with respect to the behavior of the senators of the Democratic Party [[Applause from the PD Group]] I want it to remain in the acts that the President has some prerogatives that he must respect and not go into the matter to judge morally the behavior of the Senators of the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u309	Senator Ferrari, allow me to say that I probably misjudged myself. What I meant was that I did not think it appropriate to interrupt the representative of the Government when he reminded the victims and I also made it clear to the representative of the Government, when he asked the oppositions to have respect, that it would possibly be the Presidency that would recall the oppositions. So I believe that the behavior I have adopted in the role I am playing is perfectly in my prerogatives. If I have been misinterpreted, I apologize, but these were my intentions and I confirm them. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Thanks anyway for the clarification.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u310	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u311	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u312	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been waiting for several months, but at last it seems that the decree on renewable sources is about to be issued by the Ministry of Economic Development. It provides incentives on plants such as photovoltaics, hydropower, wind and geothermal. Well, despite complaints and requests from the associations of hydropower category, it seems that in this draft the hydropower is compressed. Not only that, but the draft provides for the exclusion from the benefit of the incentives also of the mini-hydro plants, based on the assumption that there are environmental problems in relation to a pre-litigation EU Pilot. As we have pointed out several times, these environmental problems are largely surpassable by two guidelines issued months ago by the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, so we do not understand why this last draft, which was transmitted by the Ministry of Economic Development to the Ministry of the Environment, excludes and substantially compresses the hydropower, which - I remind colleagues - historically is the source par excellence from the point of view of renewable energies: it represents 40% of the production of electricity within renewables, is the only renewable energy programmable, unlike photovoltaic and wind energy, and concerns an absolutely strategic sector. There are already authorized facilities which have received concessions, which many companies are already paying, and which, in the face of the refusal of incentives, are at risk of being brought to their knees, with the loss of a huge number of jobs. This is unacceptable, therefore, as the Secretary of State for the Environment, Mr Gava, who for three times asked the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of the Environment to open a table, I too am here, on behalf of my colleagues in the Environment Commission Group, to ask, through the Presidency, that Di Maio and Costa ministers be able to open a table on hydropower, so that the content of the draft of this decree can be reviewed. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u313	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u314	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u315	Marsilio (FdI). Mr President, the city of Rome and Italy as a whole are upset and upset by the cruel death of Desirée, a 16-year-old girl who was, according to the first investigations, drugged, kidnapped, raped and killed inside a building illegally occupied in the district of San Lorenzo. Today the Minister of the Interior went to the place and found the usual facinosis that the press calls "boys of the social centers" - but the boys are not bad, maybe protest a little 'but all in all just a scapello - and instead they are gangs of red sheriffs and violent who have created, in particular in the district of San Lorenzo, an area where the presence of the State is not allowed. Instead of freeing that place, and at this moment leaving it accessible to popular and institutional piety, they felt the duty to create a barrier to defend the right to abuse the premises and to prevent the State and the institutions from being able and having to re-appropriate, on behalf of all citizens, these spaces. What is serious is that this does not happen only in San Lorenzo, where there is an ancient history, from the seventies, when the lair of the Volsci street of the workers' self-government and the autonomous collectives of the university raged in the area, preventing anyone who did not have the same ideas and was less than left-wing extremist, from being able to freely practice those neighborhoods and those areas, so much so that even in recent years my party and many others have been forbidden by the Rome police to hold meetings in the electoral campaign or exercise the free and democratic right to inform citizens through the presence in the squares, for reasons of public order, which - translated - means that those of the social centers arrive and make disorders. The police and the police, instead of arresting the warriors of the social centers and closing the places where violence is cultivated, where it educates itself to this impunity, prevent the civil and democratic forces from exercising their rights. Now we have come to the absurdity that in these places, deprived of the control of the State and the institutions, there are people who die in those gruesome conditions. This is not the first time this has happened, this time it was a minor girl, but it has already happened in other stables: in Rome there are another hundred. The vice mayor of the city recently went to meet some of these occupants, who claim the right to maintain these occupied spaces to the detriment of the community, where illegality, violence - and in this case also rape and murder - are exercising instead of applying the directives on evictions. We want to know from the government, through you, whether the clearances of these spaces will be made or whether the contradictions within the majority will not leave everything still again, beyond the chatter. Then, in fact, time passes and these episodes continue to happen. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u316	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u317	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u318	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I would like to speak as a group about the Senate Act 362, signed first by Liliana Segre, setting up a parliamentary committee to guide and monitor the phenomena of intolerance, racism, anti-Semitism and incitement to hatred and violence.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u319	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u320	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u321	BONFRISCO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Mr Marsilio's speech has introduced and opened up the picture of this situation in a broader way. Today I like to remind this poor daughter here, this girl, that in order to go and retrieve her object, who evidently knew that she was there, not to go home and tell her parents that she had lost or had been stolen a precious object, as can be a tablet, she went to death; to a horrible death, that no young man, no woman should ever do. This event is closely linked to the degradation of this city, to the carelessness of this city, to the mortification of this city, which all the citizens pay and today, in an even more resounding way, a town of this territory, a daughter, a sister, who, like Pamela Macerata, has been overwhelmed by a violence that for us is unacceptable. My colleague Marsilio did well to remember many things. I add to these aspects what struck me most today. At a tragic moment like this, when the Minister of the Interior comes out of the Ministry and goes to those places to realize personally of that degradation, of what must be done immediately and to pay homage to this poor daughter, that Minister of the Interior was accused precisely by those social centers, was insulted by them, as if insulting could ever solve some problems, while the problems of this city are still all there before us and must be addressed with the utmost attention and severity. But with regard to our daughters, our sisters, our mothers we can no longer tolerate this. Our tolerance will be zero towards these people, who are not, in my opinion, even worthy of being called people. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FI-BP and FdI Groups.]] Our civilization and history will defeat them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FI-BP and FdI Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u322	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u323	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u324	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group is also aware that at national level, not only in Rome, but in many cities, crime is unfortunately rampant and rampant. It has become a categorical imperative to intervene on the part of the Forces of Order with the firmness and hardness that people ask us, especially in the most degraded areas, those in which they find themselves living, elbow to elbow, good people with others who have different purposes; with those criminals, who would deserve in certain parts of our territory to be simply insured for justice. A minor left in an atrocious way; she was sixteen years old Desirée. He is yet another victim of the state's neglect. We are so pleased that the Minister of the Interior went to pay tribute, but I also say that the time has come to say enough only to the obituaries and the crowns of flowers. The state must not be more simply the past participle of the verb to be; we want to intervene decisively to restore order and legality in those neighborhoods. That's what people ask, that's what we ask. If, then, we must proceed with the mackerel, we go ahead, let us do it courageously, but let us not be fooled by characters who very often gravitate to the border of legality, even the political one, and in many cases also prevent the Forces of order from doing their duty. Let's do it with courage and try above all to bring back that serenity that in certain areas must absolutely return, because Italians, honest Italians, ask for it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u325	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u326	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u327	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, I have actually asked to speak on this final explosion of speeches on the very serious situation in Rome. I wouldn't want there to be political speculation about the death of a child. For a long time that area has been marked for its insecurity; for a long time, that area, unfortunately, is the subject of degradation and abandonment: by the municipal administration, the local administration and, unfortunately, also, after many reports - I have to say - of the Forces of order. So Minister Salvini, who should be in public order, may not have made a good impression showing up there. Moreover, it was around the corner of the illegal occupation, by the time indicated by the Court of Auditors, of the property of CasaPound. Of the two, ladies and gentlemen: if the Minister deals with public order, he must deal with it in every way and always. We even read yesterday's paper about the threat to the Finance Guard: If you enter, it will be a bloodbath. I remind those who have spoken before me so correctly that it is the Court of Auditors that is moving on that abusive occupation, so let's not make all the grass a bundle, let's not talk about goat and cabbage. It is not the death of a child - of whom someone will pay, and will certainly pay dearly - who must make us speak in this way, of what good Mr Salvini has done, because I do not think so. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u328	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-51.ana.u329	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 25 October, at 3 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.03.
