ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 5.30 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 981, already approved by the House of Deputies. I call the President of the 5th Permanent Commission, Senator Pesco, to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u5	Mr President, the work of the 5th Commission on the draft budget law for 2019 has not yet been completed. We have not yet been able to vote on the amendments; we concluded yesterday the stage of expressing opinions on the amendments tabled by all political forces and there is still no opinion on a large number of amendments and major sub-amendments (I refer to the last amendments tabled by the Government and the rapporteur and their sub-amendments). There is still a lot of work to be done, in the order of several days, so at the moment, I can only say that the work is not finished. I therefore ask the President of the Senate what we have to do, because there is still a lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u8	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, to say the least, we are dismayed. I would like to make a specific request, because the President of the Commission has come to us to say that it still takes many days and that there has not yet been any vote, and it is therefore clear, Mr President, that at this point we can do nothing more than ask for the meeting of the group leaders as a matter of urgency. Let me at least say that we had made specific requests, which I would like to repeat here: we have heard how the manoeuvre has changed, we have had the report, we have had the amendment. I believe that it is absolutely necessary that there should be a hearing, which should have been held in the Commission, of the Parliamentary Bureau of the Budget (UPB). In addition, it is essential - and we will ask the Leaders when they meet - that there be a change in the Update Note. In these conditions, everything has changed and we would like to understand how we can move forward. I would point out that the deadline for tabling amendments to this House has not even been set, so we are in total chaos. I therefore ask you, through you, to ask the President of the Senate to convene the Conference of Leaders as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u11	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, for the moment I merely confirm, even from the Democratic Party, the request for the immediate convocation of the Conference of the Leaders, because there is really no limit to the incredible in this work. I think that President Pesco should have come to this House today, after all his history, simply saying that they had chosen, as the Commission, to come to this House without a rapporteur. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I think it is really scandalous that, after what has happened in recent days, we are going to put back to the Presidency the choice of how to proceed, in the face of the only alternative, which is to work for a few more days, especially because - if ever seen - there has not yet been a vote on the draft budget law. There is therefore a political weight that comes from the management of these days, as well as from the lack of responsibility of the Budget Commission that comes today to say this and not that it has chosen to arrive in this Chamber without rapporteur, and I believe that this weight must be put back in the hands of the Conference of the Leaders. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u14	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to join in the request of my colleagues for the opposition, for all the reasons set out above and for many others, which have been born for fifteen days from now and from a Commission which, until now, has not, on this invisible maneuver, yet cast a single vote and is bringing it to the House with an unprecedented in the history of the Italian Republic. We are not only here to stigmatize an iconoclasm, a total break in the Constitution, but also a break in the pact with the Italian people. Let us at least give ourselves a civil calendar: together we agree, in the Conference of Leaders, what to do and try to understand how it is possible, if possible, when possible, to read the ghost content of this ghost maneuver. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] (17.11 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u15	I immediately convene the Conference of Leaders. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 17.11 a.m. and resumed at 18.48 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u16	The Conference of Leaders organised the discussion in the Assembly of the draft budget law. At tonight's sitting, which will end at 24 o'clock, the general debate will begin. This debate will resume at tomorrow's sitting, from 9 a.m. to 12 noon. Eight hours were allocated for this purpose. Once this procedural phase has been completed, the amendments and articles of the second section of the draft budget will be voted on in accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure. Subsequently, the first section of the bill, consisting of a single article, will be examined. The deadline for tabling amendments is 8 p.m. Since the Government has announced its intention to put the question of trust on the first section of the draft law, the Conference of the Leaders has already foreseen in principle the articulation of subsequent times, so that the discussion on trust will last about four hours, on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. It has also been established that at 10 p.m. tomorrow, with direct television shooting, explanations of vote on confidence and the whole of the law will take place at one stage. He'll follow you. Once Article 1 of the first section has been voted on, the sitting will have to be suspended in order to allow the Government to present the second Note of changes to the budget which, as soon as forwarded, will be immediately referred to the 5th Permanent Commission. The Assembly will then proceed to the vote of the Note of variations and to the final vote of the bill, with nominal vote by simultaneous ballot.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u19	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, at the Conference of the Leaders, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, we have tabled alternative timetable proposals. As we have explained to colleagues and as we want to communicate to this House, we believe that it is absolutely unacceptable - and we obviously use a mild expression, reserving ourselves in other places to be much less bland - the fact that not even one vote in the Commission on an amendment has been allowed. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups and Senator De Petris]] Not even one amendment has been voted in the Commission, a Commission that has been permanently convened for 15 days with separate budgetary Commissioners to talk about nothing. We - as Mr Calderoli said - should discuss nothing, in the sense that we should have a debate on topics to please from now to noon tomorrow, since the content of the manoeuvre is not that of the mini-maxi amendment tabled yesterday evening at 8.30 p.m. in the Commission, but is what comes from the House. It is, that is, that famous maneuver written on the sand that is no longer worth, because the content has already been changed. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and the Senators, Pharaoh and Monti]] Do you understand the surrealism of what I am telling you? Tomorrow the maxi amendment will come. Our proposal is based on two points: the first point is that we have the courage to put our face on it and we all come back here on 24 and 26 December. We postpone the move to the Commission immediately and vote on article by article all the articles reported. We try to make a civil figure vis-à-vis the country and our representatives: all here on 24 and 26 December. [[Applause from the FI-BP, PD and Mixed-LEU Groups]] The government seems instead willing to spend the holidays at home, surrounded by the affection of its loved ones. This is of course good for us too, but we are talking about the budget maneuver that will decide the fates of the country and change them for the worse, much for the worse. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] In extreme sub-order, we ask at least to be put in a position to speak and, therefore, not to compress the times of the debate as we will do tomorrow with the live television at 22, competing with Marzullo or with Consorzio Neptune. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We call for explanations of vote and the final vote to be taken on Saturday morning calmly, although we cannot go back to the Commission. These are our alternative proposals. Mr President, we hope for an active and active repentance of the Government, if not for us, at least for the Italians who are continuing to delude with slogans without content. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u22	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we have once again tried at the Conference of the Leaders to make proposals that I do not say put Parliament - as the President of the Republic reminded us yesterday - at the centre of the debate on the budget on minimum lines of civilisation and normality. We have seen them all, as maximmments presented late with confidence. However, we have not yet seen - perhaps someone will also look for precedents in this regard - how to deal with the budgetary manoeuvre, which is complicated and announced in such a dramatic way. We have heard many other things following a negotiation in Europe which is somewhat difficult to tell as victorious. It has never been seen in the budget committee that there was not even a vote; the experts of the budget committee know this very well: not even a technical rejection of the amendments which were not considered priority by the parliamentary groups. You've never seen it before! I am also told that some people are thinking of including in the maxi amendment amendments which have not even been tabled by individuals in the Commission. This is to make you understand that we have now arrived at the total expropriation, and not only of the Senate, because the House has voted for a maneuver that does not exist, on which, among other things, we should now begin the general discussion. We tried nicely - what do we have to do? - to make it clear that it is a problem for everyone to expropriate Parliament in such a clear and definitive way as to be able to discuss it. We tried it in the Commission; we tried it in every way. We asked, for days and days, to be able to work. We have presented our amendments, we have repeatedly asked the Government to say something, what it thought, if there was a chance to work on some issues and also to make our contribution. We've been put in a position to not be able to work. I say more than that. In fact, this result was wanted. It's not an accident. The reason is not that the negotiated negotiations have been long and complex. It has been understood, in fact, for a few days now in fact, as has also been understood by the statements made here today by the President of the Budget Commission, that there was absolutely no intention of doing any kind of work within the Commission. That is why no votes have been cast, that is why no votes have been taken; the result had to be to get to the House in the dark, without a rapporteur. That is what you think Parliamentary democracy is - and how it should be reduced! As President Calderoli is the rapporteur of a proposed Constitutional Review Act, I say you go even further: take responsibility, and on this we discuss, for the majority to present the budget with the formula "take or leave". At least it's clear, it's final and it's coded, because we can't go on like this! I repeat again that what happened was unheard of. What do we have to do now? We told you. We have tried to tell you: we are going back to the Commission and we are voting; what you must reject, reject, what you must approve, even your amendments, approve. At least the outline of the amendments you want to adopt will be clear. We try, in some way, to bring the work back to an ordinary track. Times are up. You can go back to the Commission. We're still a long way from Christmas and Eve. We have every chance, at last, to do that. And I also say this to all the majority senators: this is not just a problem of opposition, it is a problem of Parliament's dignity. Let us resume in our hands the opportunity to know, to act, to be able to fully exercise our mandate. I know you don't like it, that it's probably best that everything happens quickly and that we make explanations of vote late at night. It is, in fact, complicated, Mr President, to explain that everything you promised is now difficult to find in this maneuver. Therefore, we will return to the Commission and, after the Commission has completed its work, we will be able to continue to work, because we still have Saturday, Sunday and Monday. None of us wants provisional exercise, but let us assume the responsibility of finally returning to giving this House and Parliament a chance to decide, know and vote responsibly. Because this is a parliamentary democracy, otherwise it is something else! [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU and PD Groups and Senator Berardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u25	Mr Misiani (PD). Mr President, it has been six days for us to call paradoxical. I have some experience, Mr President, of financial laws, of stability laws, of budgetary laws, of discussions in the Commission, but never - and I stress never - had I spent six days and six nights without debating either an amendment or the majority or the opposition. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Not a vote, Mr President. An unprecedented situation, a mortification of the role that the Constitution and the Parliamentary Regulations entrust to the Budget Commission and the Parliament of the Republic. Six days until last night's paradox, when, at 21.30, after an infinite expectation and after a fair of hypocrisies, the government presented these little pages that completely upset what from the balcony of Palazzo Chigi you called the maneuver of the people. (Senator Misiani shows the Government's amendment file 1.7000, 1.7001, 1.7002). Since 9.30 p.m. last night the people's maneuver is gone: there are cuts for 10 billion euros in 2019, for 12 billion euros in 2020, for 16 billion euros in 2021, cuts for pensions, VAT safeguard clauses: there is another world, Mr President, there is another maneuver, there is another budget law, which Parliament has the right to debate, having all the information. Mr President, this Government calls itself a sovereign government which should protect Italy's prerogatives. You gave Brussels, with the hat in hand, numbers and tables that Parliament does not have: we do not have the information you sent to Pierre Moscovici, Jean Claude Juncker and Valdis Dombrovskis. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] The Italian Parliament yesterday had five pages - I say five - read by the Undersecretary Castelli, which say little or nothing about how these amendments affect gross domestic product, employment and the lives of Italians, who will see pensions cut, increased VAT and achieved things very different from those you have promised for eighty-three days to this side. If that is the case, Mr President, we ask this House to defend Parliament's prerogatives, to return to the Commission and we are willing to work also on 24 and 26 December to do our job and our duty, which is to discuss this maneuver with full knowledge of the facts. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] We are not talking about peanuts; we are talking about billions of euros that will change the lives of Italians, often for the worse, and then Parliament has the right and the duty to do its job. Let us return to the Commission. Give us the information that is our right to have; allow us to hear the Parliamentary Budget Office, which had not validated the hyperoptimistic forecasts of the Update Note and which we have a duty to hear in order to understand whether the new macroeconomic numbers we have read in the newspapers are standing, making sense or are once again swept up in the air. Mr President, we are asking you very strongly. We have today abandoned the work of the Budget Commission in protest, as an extreme gesture. We haven't been obstructing these days. We have always tried to work constructively. We ask you only to have the opportunity to do our job, to discuss, to vote, to give the country a decision that happens on numbers, on concrete facts, with knowledge of the cause. We are called to deliberate, but to deliberate we must know and today we do not know everything we need to know. We have the right and the duty to do so. We ask you, President, to protect the prerogatives of the Senate of the Republic. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u28	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, we had a long meeting at the Conference of Leaders, at which I, as Vice President of the Senate, participated together with the other Vice Presidents. There has been a great deal of effort to channel the debate on a concrete possibility of intervention for all. I quote that the leader of the Brothers of Italy, Senator Luca Ciriani, on behalf of all of us has declared himself not only available, but also ready to give consent to whatever calendar allows us to do a good job (whether it is to work on Saturday, Sunday, Monday or whatever). I do not believe, therefore, that anyone here can and should compete with those who work the most on Christmas Day or St. Stephen's Day; we must absolutely examine this draft budget law. There is, however, an even greater danger than the draft budget law, which we do not like and on which we will make our severe assessments in the course of the debate, also in relation to the capestral agreement with Europe: the most serious danger is to arrive at the provisional exercise. Our patriotic opposition, ready to discuss at any time and on any day, stops, not in words but in fact, in the face of the eventual danger of going to a provisional exercise that would be extremely harmful, not for a Government or for a majority, but for Italy. Whatever the timetable, therefore, it should be borne in mind that after us the draft budget law will have to go back to the House and we cannot, under any circumstances, ignore a projection of the times that secures the approval of the bad financial before the provisional exercise is triggered. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u29	I put to the vote the proposal to postpone the debate on the draft budget to the Commission and to continue work in the Chamber on 24 and 26 December by Senators Bernini, De Petris and Misiani. It's not approved. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the final vote on the draft budget bill on Saturday morning, tabled by Senator Bernini. It's not approved. By the way, Senator Bernini, I should also have rejected this request because, if you do the mathematics, with respect to the timetable I have read, the vote will actually be Saturday morning, because after midnight on Friday it is already Saturday morning. [[Laughter. Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the provisions of the Conference of Leaders, since the examination has not been completed in the Commission, the draft law will be discussed in the text transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies without report, pursuant to Rule 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u33	Mr Misiani (PD). Mr President, as I said earlier, the amendments tabled yesterday by the Government completely upset the way in which the manoeuvre was carried out, the financial impact and the underlying macroeconomic framework. The same accompanying pages that were read by Undersecretary Castelli, in the few numbers they give to Parliament, tell us, for example, that growth, initially planned at 1.5%, will fall to 1% next year; and other things that affect the lives of Italian citizens and businesses. But we, Mr President, believe that the accompanying documentation to the Government's amendment which has been forwarded to the Senate of the Republic is totally inadequate. An amendment worth EUR 10 billion cannot be tabled without clarifying the macroeconomic framework [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] , how this country's economy changes, which in the meantime is slipping towards recession, also thanks to your economic policy. And then we cannot be content with the statements of Prime Minister Conte and the direct Facebook of the two Vice Premier. We are officially asking - we have already done this in the Commission and we are doing it in the Chamber - that a report be sent to Parliament on the change in the Update Note, as provided for in Law No 243 of 2012, as was done in October 2014 by the Renzi Government and as should be normal in every civil country, that when it presents a completely different maneuver from the one you celebrated... [[Comments of Senator Airola]] FARAONE (PD). Shut up! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Say it yourself, maybe... MISSIANI (PD). President. - The debate is closed. No, I wasn't mad at her. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] I didn't see him. I was listening to Senator Misiani, unlike you. [[Comments of Senators Renzi and Airola]] Mr Misiani (PD). Mr President, Senator Misiani, if he is not interrupted, ends very quickly. We're asking for AIROLA (M5S). We are in general discussion! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola! Mr Misiani (PD). We ask you to have the numbers you gave in Brussels and you did not send them to the Parliament of the Italian Republic! [[Applause from the PD Group]] We have the right to understand how the maneuver has changed, who will pay more taxes, who will not retire before, who will not have the income of citizenship. We have a right to know what promises will not be kept. And you have to put it in black and white! [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups. PD Group senators stand up]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u34	Senator Misiani, the law that provided what you are asking for was amended in 2016, i.e. in the past legislature. Everything you requested is no longer legally required.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u35	[[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] FARAONE (PD). That's not true! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Who said that? Senator Pharaoh? Senator Pharaoh, please inform. [[Comments of Senator Pharaoh]] That was not even an intervention on the order of business. STEFANO (PD). Be the President, Calderoli, not the head of the majority! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pichetto Fratin is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u36	Mr President, having taken part in the fifteen days of debate in the Budget Committee, I must start from the environment that has been created in that House, if we want a bit surreal, as in this House today, because something has been discussed that was not there. The government, despite the goodwill of the undersecretaries Garavaglia and Castelli, was in the ambasce, waiting for the communications via ether from the European Commission, so at the mercy if we want Europe. And he says that - I use to be without a mandate, so I do not know if my Group fully agrees - one who says that perhaps European rules should be re-discussed and that, as we are a founding country, we have every right to demand that European rules be re-discussed. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] and, on the other hand, to reason that almost 20 years have passed since the Maastricht Treaty. But one thing must be said: there has also been a loss of information on the elements in the government's possession, as Mr Misiani said earlier. We have never asked for a formal communication from the Italian Government to the European Union because in open negotiations the opposition also respected the duty of confidentiality with respect to the negotiation that the Italian Government carried out with the European Union. I believe, however, that in a parliamentary republic, after closed negotiations, Parliament has the right to have all the official information (we did not want to know the talks); not we in the opposition, not us individual senators but the Italian Parliament was entitled to it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This has not happened. We are here without voting for anything, as has already been said. We are here, however, discussing an old maneuver, which has already been overcome by the facts, although it has been changed several times. We're glad there's no infringement procedure. The debt-to-GDP ratio, which was so flagrant at 2.4, today is at 2.04. This is EUR 7 billion less for our deficit, EUR 7 billion less that are important and important. However, we still have 1.7 billion euros in more margin than 2% which was the sum between the trend and the previous safeguard clauses (the Bankitalia estimates), so we have a margin of 3.3 billion euros. Unfortunately the guerrilla and the badly conducted negotiation lead us to have burned 72 billion euros of capitalization of stock exchange, 20 billion euros - according to the data of Bankitalia - of capitals in flight and 10 percent of the value of the Italian real estate portfolios, that are then the wealth of the normal citizens are not the portfolio of the great rich who however reside abroad, that it corresponds to approximately 300 billion euros out of a total estimated to 3,000 billion euros. This is the result of a maneuver that has worsened. We have practically moved from the maneuver of change to the change of maneuver, even if the sentence is not mine. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The first question we asked ourselves, therefore, is whether the two priority measures which this majority has maintained are more important than other measures aimed at economic growth and the creation of new jobs, because the indication that has always come was in favour of growth and expansionary manoeuvre. Then we asked ourselves the question whether, once Europe has been settled for 2019 alone, the problem will be solved for the next few years. The answer is no. Who will make the manoeuvre of 2020 and 2021 in this framework? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We are in fact in the presence of a simple postponement of the problems, of the debts and of course of the indicators. We are with the two main measures totally in debt, i.e. with non-one-off continuous current part expenditure, so we will have to have this type of expenditure continuously since 2020. The most substantial political fact - allow me to say this - is perhaps the defeat of the balcony, of that part of the majority that overlooked the balcony, of the 5 Stars and their 17 billion euro electoral promises that today have reduced considerably. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We hope that, at the time when the implementing measure (i.e. the related law) will be adopted, the EUR 17 billion will be spent better than the flagship. We hope that these resources will be allocated to work and training, and thus to accompaniment to work. We would agree on that, because it would be much more reasonable. There's another thing you need to scare. In 2020, additional €23 billion of VAT is expected; in 2021, the figure is €28.7 billion. VAT will thus reach the threshold of 26.5 percent and will be paid, first of all, by the poor people and by all Italians. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] The measure also contains a sequence of other measures (some of which can be shared): from substitute taxes to withdrawal on the game. There are others that are not acceptable, like the taxes on the cars, that risks to impact negatively on the field, producing an effect similar to that of the intervention on the shipbuilding of a few years ago, of not even very distant memory. Furthermore, our amendments concerning the real estate market have not been accepted and the measure does not contain any form of aid to the construction system, even if only by simplifying and not providing subsidies. There are no measures that can really restart the product around gross. Since the beginning of the crisis, the construction sector has lost 600,000 jobs. Colleagues, we must remember that at this moment the Italians have a availability of 1,000 billion euros, of which 150 under mattresses, according to estimates of the Bank of Italy and Istat. These resources should not be taxed, but should be used to promote public investment in infrastructure and to create jobs. In this way you can make the country grow. The maneuver under consideration is no longer the one announced in the Economic and Financial Document, i.e. an expansive maneuver that should have fostered growth. The reduction of the gross product from 1.5 to 1% means that the maneuver is beginning to be strongly recessive. In fact, growth means work, freedom of enterprise and cancellation of the unworthy measures contained in the so-called Dignity Decree. You don't quit after 24 months, you don't avoid reading the reality by banning vouchers (let's hope it doesn't happen), you don't close stores on Sundays to get employees who work that day fired. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Mr President, we would have an alternative maneuver in mind. We could also reason on the increase in VAT, but we need to lower direct taxes and introduce flat tax. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This could be the maneuver of a real government that cares about the fate of the nation. Perhaps - and I conclude - we must thank the European Central Bank, which despite the gradual reduction in the purchase plan has confirmed the repurchase of the securities that are currently in the portfolio. This is a recessive maneuver that shapes the idea of happy degrowth, while this country needs to create additional conditions for job growth and additional opportunities and not subsidies. This is precisely what is lacking, first and foremost, in the new budget law. [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u37	Senator La Pietra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have come so far to the culmination of this comedy that we have all been involved in the last few weeks, because in fact this is what it is all about. If he hadn't involved the fate of our country and our citizens, it would have been a farce. The path of financial manoeuvre is indeed a tragedy; we have worked for weeks in the Commissions without having any given or precise plan. We still don't have the exact balances today. We listened yesterday to the President-in-Office of the Council who told us in this House that he has reached agreement with Europe, that there will be a deficit lower than the one announced and that, in any case, the measures that the majority considered important, such as the income of citizenship, will be maintained. Everything else or most of the other things will most likely be deleted. It is a maneuver that, however, does not look at growth and development. Having said that, we are concerned because from the words that the President-in-Office of the Council said yesterday we basically understood one thing: the Italian Government went to Brussels and asked for the possibility of making its electoral manoeuvre in view of the next campaign for Europeans in exchange for a mortgage over the coming years on the future of our citizens. What will happen, as someone has already said, in 2020-2021 is not yet clear. You traded and mortgaged the future of our nation. We wanted to go into the substance of this maneuver, but to date, it does not allow us to understand what the data are actually to be discussed. If we want to analyse the draft law that came out of the House, however, one fact is certain; it is from it that we must start, given that no amendments have been voted in the Commission and that no official amendments have been made. Objectively we do not see in it elements of development, possibility of increasing jobs. Or rather, the jobs actually created them in the maneuver. You created them when, for example, you hypothesized the recruitment of about 400 people to the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea. In order to do what? In order to reduce external advice. What is the ratio of this reasoning? Allow me, usually advice is one-off, so what do you want to do with this measure? You want to replace one-off expenditure with a structural expenditure that will always be fixed over time. And you want to do it because you most likely feel that those who work within the Ministry are not able professionally to carry out these consultations. The problem is not solved by quantity, but by increasing the professionalism of these people. You want to create jobs, as you say. How? With citizenship income? The only jobs you will create will most likely be the 4,000 that will expand employment centres. Those are certain jobs. But you still do not understand one thing: the problem of employment centres is not the quantity of people who are employed, but - also here - the quality of the service that is being carried out. Employment centres are used to cross supply and demand between the world of work and companies. If any of you had also made the administrator - for example, the Provinces that the left wanted to abolish in fact, making the institutional situation crazy - it would have understood that employment centers do not work because there is no real selection of the type of workers that serve the territory. Many times within the employment centers, and those that were before the Provinces, training courses were done that did not even have a minimal relevance to the work that represented the peculiarity of the territory. You then talked about infrastructure. But how, on the one hand you say you want to promote development and, on the other hand, you want to block all investment in infrastructure? Especially you, colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, of which one of your 5 Stars is the environment, have never spoken in the Maneuver of the Motorways of the Sea. But, actually, what are you doing? Decrease funding for work to be done in ports and extraordinary maintenance. We could continue, but I want to go specifically on a subject that I am particularly interested in, that of agriculture. In this budget - at least according to what we are told - for agriculture, which represents one of the fundamental assets of our exports, of Made in Italy, of agro-food, you have invested zero; you have invested zero point zero: nothing. You invested about a million a year in the problem of annoying xylella in Puglia. Faced with estimates from Coldiretti, Confagricoltura and trade union associations in agriculture; against a loss of more than 1.7 billion euros, with a total reduction of 50% of oil production in Puglia, you invest 1 million euros per year. Did you say you're investing 10 million euros in forestry? Do you realize that? 10 million out of more than 11 million hectares of woods we have in our country? It's not even a euro per hectare. And even if it were to be divided by municipalities, not per hectare, considering that we have 3,500 mountain municipalities in our country, not even an average of 3,000 euros per municipality. So what money do you want to help Italian agriculture with? The last thing. Your flag operation in agriculture was to give a hectare of land to whom had the third or fourth child? What are you talking about? If there's a family that lives in the center of a city and has a third child, do you give them a hectare of land? Where? Where do you give it to her, in the middle of a garden? [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Berardi]] And to which households do you refer? I am referring to the colleagues of the League: do you first say the Italians, but what families did you refer to to do this? I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that, as far as we have been given to see so far, this is a manoeuvre which does not increase employment, which does not create development, but only creates welfare. As far as we are concerned, we would have liked a more Italian, more patriotic, less European maneuver. But it seems to me that your revolution, which you announced from the balconies, is hiding in the cellars of politics. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u39	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u40	Mr President, I confess that I am speaking in this House with great discomfort; with the discomfort of those who, by culture, tradition, practice, have made respect for the institutions the cornerstone of their political activity. I take the floor uncomfortable, because it seems to me that today you are making, in these already so dark days, a further serious attack, the most serious in the history of our Republic, on representative democracy. [[Applause from the PD, FI-BP and Mixed-LEU groups]] , the Constitution and the liberal order as well as, albeit imperfect, we have known it in recent years. You see, that Parliament is humiliated, dejected, reduced to irrelevance, indeed - allow me - almost to the farce, it is not a trophy to be proud of, it is not a vulnus to the opposition, but it is a serious wound to everyone, to the country, to democracy. [[Applause from the PD and FdI groups.]] You see, why am I saying it's almost a farce? Kafka would, frankly, make us a mustache. You asked the House, with confidence, for a vote on a farcical maneuver that we all knew did not exist (they read it every morning). Here you demand, in the same way, a vote with confidence on a mysterious object that no one has had the opportunity, as well as the duty, to examine. President Conte gave us some figures yesterday, but it seems to me that more than anyone else is given the numbers and giving the numbers is not synonymous with starting from the numbers: it is giving the numbers. These eighty-three days and previous days have not only been useless, but have been detrimental in political terms, to the credibility of our country and in economic terms to the Italians, Italians and families of this country. The political costs will not recover them anymore and all in these months has been accompanied by daily statements of the two deputy, Salvini in particular, disrespectful, by bully of the periphery, vulgar when not directly insulting to anyone. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] If a magistrate dares to say that an open investigation would be good not to tweet, he is told that he is tired and retired. If a senior official tries to say that numbers are one thing and the macroeconomic figures are something else, he is answered in a contemptuous way that he gets elected and then he speaks because we are elected by 60 million Italians, and that is not true, because there are many but there are not 60. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] And anyway, with 60 minus one and I am happy, at least, to understand what our fundamental differences are on the political and liberal management of a country as it should be. And do we want to continue on "Many enemies so much honor" or "We're going to pull straight," or "We're going to hunt 500,000 clandestine people," phrases with which you've been chasing us for months of campaigning? Except that between a brewery and a bowler, at some point the Minister of the Interior even had time to go to the Ministry and someone suggested that it was not possible - we told him for months - and he had to admit that it would actually take eighty years. And after so much harmful and counterproductive noise and so much vulgarity, so much contempt for national and non-national institutions, a painful and silent reverse, luckily for us and luck of the whole country. Anyone who has been able to prevent the Italian car from falling into the ravine is given our appreciation and that of the whole country. We were close to the ravine and I, who do not appreciate for culture the worst so much better, I must also say that not falling into the ravine is a value for everyone and also for this country. On the subject, much has been said. Colleagues, it is really bizarre, not to say worse, that such a sovereign government, the Government of the first Italians, then let itself be dictated the maneuver, detail for detail, by the European institutions, and fortunately. [[Applause from Senator Begin.]] But this is first the Italians or the sovereign government. So it was until last night, the other night, Sunday or when the hell it was. It's a good bang! I understand the absences of Salvini and Di Maio yesterday: one engaged in the family and then in the brewery, and the other certainly in great activities. But, after all the filings for as many as 10 billion - in the face of filings - this remains a spending maneuver in current expenses, an electoral maneuver that does not address at all the real problems of this country. A double scar: an institutional scar and a scar for the relaunch of the country. To honour what remains of this parliamentary democracy, I am seriously tempted not to take part in the vote; it never happens to me. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Ah, poor bastards! MALPEZZI (PD). Be respectful! BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). You who do not understand the meaning of institutions, have no idea how serious it is... [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] You do not understand how serious the decision I am about to make, because you do not respect the institutions. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u41	Senator Bonino, address the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u42	COMINANCES (PD). Have respect! BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). Colleagues, I defend myself. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You do not understand how serious the decision I must make, no matter how attached I am to open democracy, to liberal democracy; that democracy which seems to me the least worst way of ruling a country. You pass on to institutions like roller compressors. You see, you're gonna need a good day, too. You'll need them, too. [[Applause from the PD, FI-BP and Senator Errani Groups]] I've seen others come and go, but what's left is exactly the balance of power between the different roles. Here there is no longer even the difference between the executive and the judiciary or between the executive and the legislative. He's gone. And there is no respect for independent agencies either: those who do not agree, leave or get elected. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]] [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] WOMAN (M5S). What do you want? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator, you've run out of time. BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). I have finished my time, but I have not finished my commitment to defend democracy and Europe as we know it. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] . Many congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to remain insensitive to the intervention of those before me, who demonstrate all attachment to the institutions, to the role, to the functions to which we are voted and which we must respect and honour in this House too. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] However, in my not short parliamentary experience, Mr President, I had never had the opportunity to discuss a financial maneuver without the Budget Commission saying that it had not examined it, but had voted at least one amendment: nights and days without doing anything. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is 20 December, around 8 p.m., and we still do not know - but you probably do not know either, ladies and gentlemen - what will be the maneuver that we will be called to vote tomorrow. And probably tomorrow, when the maxi amendment is tabled, you will give us two hours for the sub-amendments, when you, in three months, have not yet been able to put in place a financial manoeuvre. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] This is not serious, but it is an insult to intelligence and parliamentary representation. [[Live and sustained applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] , because we too are elected by the people, we are also representatives of the people, we too, in this House, have prerogatives and functions similar to those of the majority, and we have the same right to be respected, so that our work can be done in the best possible way. You see, Mr President, we saw the difference a few minutes ago: although the opposition is not responsible for the delay in voting on the financial maneuver, although we are not yet aware of the details and precisely what the changes will be, what the additional interventions will be and which will be taken away, we have proposed, not in a provocative way, but in a serious and responsible way, in order to have the right to examine and to have our amendments discussed - and also to make them fail - to come and vote on 24 and 26 December. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] But we were told no. But then you go on social networks and in the squares to say that there are people here who do nothing, when instead we have proposed to sacrifice also the holidays - that we would all have the right to spend with our family - to stay here to serve the country and to remedy your responsibility and your failure. But you said no! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Mr President, let us take a step back: it has not been long since 28 September, when from that balcony, beating punches on the chest, it was said: We have launched the maneuver of the people, with 2.4 percent deficit, in which there are all the resources and all the promises we made in the election campaign. We will not go to Europe with our hat in hand! No, you went down on your knees and charged the country a very high price! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Pharaoh),]] because from that 2.4% we have gone to 2.04 percent and, probably, when we read the balances, we will see that we have gone to 2 percent deficit. If you had avoided all this mess, you would have prevented 250 billion euros of Italian savings from going up in smoke! [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] This is your great responsibility. You have lost credibility and authority and you have gone to the confessional of that Europe, to which you have put your arrogance in the face, to pray and beg for a maneuver, which you will only need for the European electoral campaign. As has already happened to other authoritative politicians before you, the day of judgment always arrives, not the universal one, but the popular one. You may be able to achieve your goal in the European elections, but your consent will not last long, because it is based on the sand and promises that you have already betrayed and that you will continue to betray. In order to launch this maneuver and to have the authorization from Europe, which is not an act of faith, but a subordinate authorization, in January they will ask you to see the tasks you have done and in February or March they will ask you for a corrective maneuver [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] : I remember that for next year you have already committed 23 billion euros of safeguard clauses, which will pay the Italians, and for 2021, 26 billion euros. What does that mean? Very simple: you know that you will not rule at that time. You just want to steal a consensus in the European elections and go home, because you will go home, either of your own accord or sent by the people. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Others will be responsible for pulling out the country that you have brought under these conditions. Then I turn to the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars who in my land, in my region and in the whole of the South, have made incetta of vows, have taken all the one-name colleges promising sparks in favor of the Mezzogiorno. You have a great responsibility and one day you will be called to account for this responsibility. You have increased the gap between the North and the South; you have not unified the country, but are tearing it apart and dividing it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You are responsible for this because it was you who had the duty to represent and defend the Mezzogiorno. We would have been on your side, because we would have been on the side of the weakest and on the side of the Mezzogiorno. What did you do? Where's the tax credit? How do you think the economy can develop and increase employment in the Mezzogiorno of Italy? You cut 800 million for social solidarity funds; you cut all depreciation. Do you think that the Mezzogiorno needs a revised citizenship income or some charity of this kind? You don't know the southerners! We may also be poor, but we have an inestimable good that is dignity and our dignity will not pass anyone, not even the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We needed investment and tax cuts. We didn't ask for charity. Compared to the income of citizenship, to you who go in the newspapers, the squares and the social networks to say that all the promises are kept, I remember that you had left from 9 billion, now there are 7; let's remove one for the centers of occupation and there are 6. The audience of absolute poor in our country is made up of 5 million Italians; dividing the 6 billion by the 5 million poor perhaps comes something less than those famous 80 euros that have been dramatic for some other and that will mark the same fate for you too. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u44	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we want to denounce the behaviour of these weeks of continuous offense of Parliament, and therefore of the country, and of constant coercion to the limit of the violation of parliamentary regulations. You have had no hesitation in making the House vote, putting its trust in the House, a completely unfounded and largely false maneuver. You have had no hesitation in teasing the Senate of the Republic for days and days, preventing there being even one vote of merit in the Budget Committee. You have no hesitation, still in these hours, to make us argue when you are still tampering with a maneuver that is like a three-card game. We, lords of the government, want to denounce these continuous your scenes, this continues your irresponsibility that is costing a very high price for all Italians, especially for those who are weaker. But you guys don't seem to care about that. You don't care about real life and everyday life. You live on social media, in TV studios. Yours is a continuous fiction. Three months have passed since that disturbing pantomime of the balcony of Palazzo Chigi, when, offending and humiliating millions of people who every day struggle honestly among a thousand difficulties, Vice President Di Maio, laughing, announced the end of poverty. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups. Comments from the M5S Group]] But you, gentlemen of the government, don't realize it! Your cynicism is scary. You should apologize! That pathetic scene cost the Italians a spread out of control. And it's not theory, it's very practical. It means over 1.5 billion, which we are already paying, on the increase of loans for families, loans for businesses, increasing bills of electricity, water and gas. It's real life, gentlemen of the government. But you don't care. In these months of bullying, the confidence has collapsed, investors have fled, consumption has decreased, our exports have dropped, the market shares of our made in Italy. Our country is weaker and more difficult is the prospect for millions of workers, craftsmen, entrepreneurs and for the first time since 2014, after fourteen consecutive positive quarters our gross domestic product drops. You're throwing us into the recession! And it won't be the strong, the ones with the shoulders covered. You're gonna charge the weakest. We know. You wrote it this night, because the ten billion cuts that cost your ridiculous retreat from Europe you find increasing VAT, that is, the tax that all Italians pay when they spend to eat; you find them cutting pensions of 1,500 gross euros, government lords, hitting the middle class and leaving undisturbed the strong and speculators. Cut resources to local authorities, municipalities, cities, outskirts. Yours is a maneuver entirely centered on a farcical, deceptive, non-saving, non-protected, non-emancipating, but instead ghettosizing, excludes. Yours, in fact, is not an income of citizenship, but a tip of poverty, which certifies poverty, which makes you remain poor, excluded, marginal. In fact, there is only one way to defeat poverty and inequalities and it is to invest in stable work, to defend and create: but there is nothing here; it is to invest in education: but there is nothing here. There is no idea of the future in this maneuver, which you impose with yet another vote of confidence, choking the rules and also preventing us from speaking, mortifying this Parliament. Right to study, research, universities, which are our future and will determine the place of Italy in the world: you, by this budget law, which is the country's identity card, make them disappear. Your plan to recruit researchers is much less than that of the Democratic Party governments in the last three years. (19.59) (Followed by Mr Verducci). On the scholarship fund put 10 million, which are offensive crumbs. Yours is the lowest increase since 2012. You stop a continuous growth that, in recent years, has led to almost doubling the fund for scholarships and for the right to study. You cancel Natta Cathedrals, whose fund is 70 million a year. Remove that money from the university and, starting in 2020, for the first time since the time of Tremonti (you are the epigons of Tremonti!), you will for the first time cause a decrease in funding for the university system and the right to study. Suddenly remove - you did it this night - 100 million from research; remove 300 million from the tax credit for research and innovation; remove the 3% indexing to that university requirement that you, on the other hand, want to link to GDP estimates. But you know that they are much lower, much lower and this will cause structural definancing for decades to come! This is a devastating norm also on the symbolic level, because it means to relegate the university from the priorities of the country. Gentlemen of the Government, today for so many - I do not know if you know - it is a dramatic day because one of the shameful amendments you have tabled this night blocks recruitment at universities. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is a slap in the face, a blow to the back of many young people, that breaks lives, careers and humiliates years and years of work and rejects in precariousness. It also prevents the development of social security treatments; it frustrates the unblocking of the turnover which has been hard-won in recent years. I say: Stop, stop, stop, stop, Don't mortify a generation of scholars. You have rejected all our amendments which were used to give all eligible students a scholarship to expand the no-tax area, to double the recruitment of researchers in universities and research institutions. These were realistic proposals absolutely feasible to deal with the great evils of our university, which are the precariousness in research, the scarcity... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Verducci, thank you. I'd like us to keep to the time since we're done at midnight. I gave her an extra minute. Mr Verducci (PD). I've got ten minutes. At least this.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u46	He's got five. What does that even mean? It's not up to me. Let me check it out. If he's ten, I interrupted him halfway through his surgery. They're marked five minutes. It is a mistake; the fellow Member is right and I apologize because it was not up to me. You have five more minutes. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u47	I am moved by these evils: the precariousness in research, the scarcity of registered and graduated students, the territorial disparities that have not been quite contrasted in these years, but that date back to the years of Tremonti and Gelmini. Moreover, you, the government gentlemen, the protagonists of that dark season, like Valditara, have put them again today to command the Italian university. So what are we talking about? Yours is an outrageous step backwards; you betrayed expectations, made paper rags of promises. Of this you should be ashamed; indeed, of this you are already ashamed, since the deputy minister Fioramonti a few days ago at Wisdom said textuale: Don't vote Movimento 5 Stars anymore. Montevecchi (M5S). It is not true; what does it say? Mr Verducci (PD). Gentlemen of the Government, parliamentarians of the majority, for you it is worth what the girls and boys of the High School Tasso of Rome have written in what is a real act of accusation against your Government. In these days of mobilization in schools and universities they said: we do not want condones that mean crime; we do not want livelihoods that degrade our dignity; we want solidarity; we want public school; we want work. They are right and if they win - and win - they will win Italy. We will assert our voice in this Chamber and in the country, alongside that voice, for this country of ours, that we will not allow anyone to mortify, as you are doing. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u48	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lannotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u49	Mr President, after the blatant hostility of Europe and the Troika, who are accustomed to treating governments elected by the sovereign people as their most loyal waiters, we will approve the budget law, which arrived in the Senate after a rough course, a race of obstacles by the European cleptocracy. [[Comments from the PD Group]] that has never digested the Government of Change Movimento 5 Star-Lega [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , the only possible following the election results of 4 March. These are the figures: on 29 May 2018 Oettinger, the European Commissioner for Financial Programming and Budget, launched the first anathema against us, Italy, whose citizens had been stained in the ballot box of the crime of injured majesty at the European Moloch, with the mild revolution of pencils. The markets - said the gentleman - will teach the Italians to vote. On May 23, a launch of the Reuters agency reported that France was leaving the infringement procedure: nine years without paying a penny. Moscovici, as French finance minister, had criticized the austerity policy and the rigour imposed by Europe on France between 2012 and 2014. Other anathema periodicals were launched against the Government by Dombrovskis, by the French Finance Minister Le Maire, regretted that Italy had not accepted the Diktats of the European Commission, perhaps to satisfy the ancient appetites on Italian public companies, as Germany had done in Greece. Finally, President Juncker, when asked why on several occasions he had turned a blind eye to the French infringements, admitted that he had done so because it is France, paraphrasing the famous joke of the Marquis del Grillo [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bagnai]] France was allowed to make deficits because it is France; Italy is rejected because it is Italy. Yet there was the revolt and you must thank the Movimento 5 Stars and the League, because the yellow vests did not arrive here [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] We are within the institutions and we respect them. Macron has announced interventions for 11 billion euros in deficit and Moscovici, (conflict of interest?) said that overflow is possible because it is limited. To the forgetful who are agitating against the 5 Star Movimento Government - League, instead of being united on the protection of the rights and interests of Italy, I would like to remind you that among the 28 countries of the European Union, little more than one in two in 2016 did not comply with the provisions of the main criteria. Taking the French economic indicators we will notice that cumulative GDP growth is the penultimate (6.5 per cent), ahead of Italy (4.5 per cent), away from Germany; the tax wedge is 47.6 per cent, like the Italian one; France is penultimate in investment. These figures come from the Eurostat rankings and in such disastrous strabism of European commissioners who clearly hate this country, hate Italy and its legitimate Government, the maneuver of the people we are going to vote contains income and pension citizenship, early retirements, 100 quota to correct the wretched Fornero law, which put in the middle of a road hundreds of thousands of families without work and pension [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] the maneuver contains the compensation of 1.5 billion euros to the victims of the betrayed savings. Remember, colleagues, Bank Etruria, Bank Marche? [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Do you remember the bail-in, approved without the knowledge of Padoan and the Governor of the Bank of Italy? Do you remember that? I, Mr President, am about to close because a European Union which blackmails the peoples who do not vote according to its wishes and makes its survival dependent on a 0.4 or less, which struggles to assert a sort of economic sovereignty favorable to the friendly states, such as France, and contrary to Italy, their enemy, just because the sovereign people did not vote according to the wishes of the European cleptocracy, this Europe cannot have a future. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] And the anxiety of the spread, the media manipulation of the consciences of the professionals of the anguish about the serious danger of the hard-earned savings of the Italians, from whom does it come? From the Attila of savers, from the ones who cheated 500,000 families. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Do you remember the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, Veneto Banca, Banca Popolare di Vicenza? Obsessively repeated dozens of times a day. Well, to the words in freedom of those who, among the highest positions, would have the duty to defend the common good and the general interest, instead of the reckless faded t-shirts of parties disappeared, we of the Movimento 5 Stars contrast the values of the Constitution, which we defended on December 4 against the referendum J.P. Morgan. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Sovereignty belongs to the people, not to the spread and to the bankers, who would like to make us their modern slaves. I'm closing, Mr. President. We, who have only been ruling for six months, will try in five years to recover and repair the very serious disasters you have caused in twenty years. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u50	All right, finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u51	LANNUTTI (M5S). We will vote with pride on the maneuver of the people, to restore honour, rights and dignity to Italy and the sovereign people. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] . Many congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Since it is scheduled to be closed at 24, I hope you will help me with respect for the times, because otherwise the last speak after midnight. I say this out of respect for those at the bottom of this list. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Damiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u52	Mr President, Government, my fellow senators, I am speaking on a draft budget law which is not yet in place, and I acknowledge today that the Government and this majority have maintained a commitment. You promised to write the story and you succeeded: never in republican history, in fact, had a financial maneuver come so late to the knowledge of Parliament. It had never happened that a House voted on a maneuver that today, after a few days, no longer exists in the other branch of Parliament. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] On this you have written today the Republican history of the country. This will be your story and for this you will also be remembered in the future. A step away from the provisional exercise of 31 December, we still do not know the content of the bill, the most important for the country, the political act par excellence that is the budget law, the vision of a government that we, still do not know today, is still unknown. And why is that? Because the proposals you have made up to now were not very serious and were not feasible, both in terms of expenditure and the measures you have presented to Italy and Europe. So a proposal that is absolutely unbelievable, but full of measures that cannot be achieved; and in fact it has been cut off. I do not want to dwell on the vicissitudes of this financial manoeuvre, which has certainly been tormented. We started from the challenge to overtake 3%, then move on to almost 3%, then down to 2.4 percent, on which the government stated that they would not be back by a millimeter. We have fallen to 2.04 percent - and we all need to know - where that final 4 doesn't matter because in Europe the number is rounded up, so it's 2% that you finally went to deal with Europe, so no weight and that's why the rate is 2%. And in the middle, what happened? In the middle there were proclamations, battle programs and retromarces. In the meantime, however, our citizens, Italians, portfolios, our families and businesses have lost 250 billion capitalization, of investments of our families that you have burned for this waste of time without having - alas - the accounts in order. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Unfortunately, you cannot play sovereigns in an international context. It's important to have the accounts in order, the accounts in place. If these were the general evidence of flagship sovereignism, the outcome was unsuccessful. In order to achieve an unconditional surrender with Europe, the pace has not been short or painless. We have had months of spreads at very high levels and today the consequences will be borne by our families because from the next weeks they will find the rates for higher loans and loans at the credit institutions. Everything is predictable, but the government has wanted to challenge Europe and not only Europe but above all common sense. The proof that the path taken was unworkable and harmful to Italians is in the comment that you of the Government do today, because you believe that the maneuver has even been improved, because it has become more prudent and because in the end it has won the dialogue: they are statements of the Government. So what game have we played until today? We played by putting our hands in the pockets of the citizens when, instead, with arrogance, we isolated ourselves from the European context. Random figures have been fired and colossal debts have also been proposed that would have weighed for decades especially on the younger generations, and then finally have to thank Europe after denigrating it. Sovereignists who come home with a written maneuver in Brussels: it's funny, it makes Parliament laugh and it makes our nation laugh! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Prime Minister Conte said the government's maneuver was very nice. Today he comes to tell us and tells us that that rewritten in Europe is even more beautiful. The maneuver, therefore, was reported on the tracks of financial sustainability and then, in September, on the balcony of Palazzo Chigi, what did we celebrate? What victory did we celebrate then? Surely you have celebrated your pride that, as always in life, starts on horseback and comes back on foot. Today I invite you to return to that building, to that balcony above all, and apologize to the Italians for the damage you have done in these weeks, in these months of negotiations. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You have made a thin figure, the figure of teenagers, of those teenagers who today are happy to have ignored, to have transgressed some rules. But you are not teenagers because you represent the country today, because you are in the government today and you have an important responsibility and - alas - instead, in this negotiation, today, it was the Italians who were the people with whom you so much fill your propaganda. In return, today, what have been and what are the brilliant results of this manoeuvre that, as I said, is not yet there but we read from the newspapers? In the end, we went down to a 2% deficit-GDP ratio when months ago we were talking about being on 1.9 percent, so we didn't make much money. Afterwards we have disproportionate the number on growth to 1.5% and today we are going down to 1% and what was the growth of 2018? 1%. So what expansive maneuver do you talk about if, in the end, from 1%, we move to 1% in 2019? These are jokes and even if you tell them like jokes, these things absolutely don't make you laugh. There is no expansive maneuver and the Italians must know it because the numbers are these. We are a step away from 31 December, therefore from the risk of the provisional year, but, specifically, we today have 4 billion less investments, 2 billion frozen funds to guarantee the structural deficit, a deficit-GDP ratio to 2%, a reduction in expenditure on citizenship income and pensions that is approximately 4.6 billion, an increase in VAT up to 2020 to 26.5% and above all a serious thing, that we will not make pass in the country at all, is the stop to indexing increases in pensions to 1,500 euros. This is a shame and you will pay it in front of the citizens. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Among other things, the solution that has been achieved with Brussels does not entirely avoid the procedures because, as has already been said in other interventions, we will have to talk again in January because we will have to review with Europe the ratio established by 2%. So, in fact, we can say that you have led us today and you have been led quietly by Europe to a police station in our country. Today, in fact, with this strategy of yours you have in fact taken Italy. Today Italy is a European commissioner. Congratulations, you've been great! How to comment on this defeat on all fronts? If we, until yesterday, had the suspicion that the maneuver would be punitive for the country, for the growth, the families and the enterprises, today we can certainly say with certainty that the operation has succeeded but - alas - dear friends and colleagues, the patient unfortunately died. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u53	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus on a precise measure of this maneuver. The so-called "passabuche" measure, i.e. the one for patching the holes in Rome, is back, contained in an amendment of the Movimento 5 Stars, which provides for an appropriation of 40 million for 2019 and 20 million for 2020. The measure had been rejected and then it was reintroduced, i.e. it came out of the door and came back from the window. How did he do that? The amendment has been rejected, but it has been reworded using in the second draft the escamotage to introduce the emerging character, so that it can pass. However, the substance and content do not change, and that is what I want to talk about. First of all, the provision speaks of emergency. But - I ask myself and ask you - who establishes when a hole becomes a sinkhole and a sinkhole becomes a dangerous emergency? And how many times do we intervene? One off or all the time? How much, when and - above all - only in Rome? And the other over 8,000 municipalities of Italy what will they do for their holes? In fact, with this measure put the military genius to plug the holes of Rome. And just about Rome we must speak, as ISPRA did in a documented way yesterday, which presented its 2018 survey on the quality of the urban environment, providing data and figures on hydrogeological failure, erosion, landslides and floods. The report denounces a boom of holes in Rome; 136 holes in the last ten months of the current year. Given that the real emergency in Rome is his mayor, the mayor will buy bitumen but the rest the army will have to do it. The same Minister of Defense Thirty (who is from the 5 Star Movimento area, the same one who gave birth to this measure that offends the army and the genius) recalled the specificity of the military genius and also the strong value and dual capacity of the Armed Forces with the genius. This escamotage of the reference to the emerging character is really a mockery, because everyone knows that in Rome, from Casilina to Cassia, there are more than 200 kilometers of roads, with traits dangerous for the collective safety. So basically, the military genius will have to plug the holes in Rome. He's had a little less money, but the substance is the same. Let me say that even the times are suspicious, because the measure applies for a two-year period, which coincides exactly with the end of the Capitoline administration's mandate. In short, in the financial maneuver we have passed a measure save Rays. But that's not the only thing that makes you angry, in fact, makes you indignant. I would like to remind the House and the extensors of the maneuver that the military genius addresses emergencies, natural disasters, not administrative and managerial disabilities, such as those of the city of Rome. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] The measure in our examination offends the dignity of the armed forces, disrespecting them. I might object that the army intervened in the Naples garbage emergency, but it did so to guard the territory against the fires and not to pick up the shovel and patch up as in this case. Then Giorgia Meloni is right when with a joke, perhaps even to decompress this dramatic maneuver, he says that from the assault troops we have passed to the asphalt troops: unfortunately it is so. The maneuver in fact asks and commits the military genius to patch up the holes of Rome and, while committing it in this, the rest of the maneuver cuts the funds to the Defense. Vice President Di Maio speaks indistinguishably and generically of a cut of a billion unnecessary expenses that will go to employment centers. What are the cuts is not clear yet, but for now we know with certainty - and I mean very clearly - that the cuts go to research, development, defence and security: no missile program CAMM ER (Common anti-air modular missile extended range), no F-35, no drones, cuts to international missions aimed at building peace and global stability. I want to remind the extensors of the maneuver that the army is born to defend the institutions, citizens, borders and institutional peace does not arise to cover the holes of those who have not managed. The Italian army is one of the four armed forces: do you not get the chills when you write these things? Don't you think of the royal army born in 1861 with the Unity of Italy? Don't you think of the Italian army born with the Italian Republic in 1946? Do you not think of the Italian army, one of the four armed forces engaged in the Atlantic Alliance and in peacekeeping, stabilisation, deterrent global risks? What do you think when you say military words and military genius? Don't think about reality. I wouldn't be surprised if one day you sent the infantry to pick up the tomatoes! At best, in your maneuver there is a perverse perspective that wants to transform the army into some kind of extended civil protection: the army was born with other tasks, has another history and must have another job. I don't want to see a military man in his camouflage, called a combat suit, shutting the holes of someone who couldn't work. This is because the extensors of the maneuver do not have the sense of the State and the institutions. When you speak of the maneuver of the people you remind me of the Jacobins, those of the third phase, however, those of the Robespierre to understand us: go and study Michelet's distinctions on the third stage of Jacobinism. Do not love the state, do not respect the institutions and this maneuver is an electoral manfrina. You first showed the muscles, you did the gradasses and then you turned back on everything and you know - because you know it - that you put together not a synthesis, but a sum of measures and electoral tips without a vision of the whole, of a project, of a horizon, of a development plan. Well, this maneuver doesn't go far. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u55	Senator Zuliani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Members of the Commission for the work they have done, the representatives of the Government for the constructive confrontation and my fellow Senators, who do not hold the budget, who have contributed to the Commission's meetings. Today we are discussing a budget law that, in addition to containing economic measures for the development of our country, contains significant measures for our municipalities. As mayor of a small town of the lower Verona, the Municipality of Concamarise, I trust in the Government, that it will be able to implement some requests made by the mayors, presented through the amendments. At my anticipation, in recent days, of the possibility of these measures to the mayors of my territory, I have received notes of hope and enthusiasm. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I would like to point out that these notes of hope came not only to me from the mayors of the League, but also from many other mayors of political extractions other than mine, even from mayors representing almost all the political groups present in this Parliament, including from mayors of the Democratic Party or from civic lists of center-right and center-left. [[Senator Begin's comments. Protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u57	Let my colleague intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u58	ZULIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). With the budget law the government will have an eye on the weak social groups and attention for local administrations, for those mayors of municipalities who live for people and with people. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Mayors who breathe the feelings of the communities they administer, whether they are positive or negative feelings. Below I will list the main measures that could be in force in 2019 and that concern the Italian Municipalities and I use the conditional because the Parliament in the next hours will be called to vote on these measures: significant changes to the rules of public finance related to the fiscal balances in relation to the use of the administrative surpluses following the recent decisions of the Constitutional Court; possibility to request treasury advances in order to accelerate the payment of the commercial debts; increase of the resources for the energy redevelopment of the public buildings pairs to 25 million euros for 2019 and 40 million euros for each of the years from 2020 to 2022; contributions for 400 million euros for the safety of roads, schools, public buildings and municipal assets; simplification of the accounting compliances. In addition, companies with public participation that have produced an average result in profit in the previous three years will not be put into liquidation; revision of the Code of contracts without invitation to tender for amounts less than 200,000 euros. With these measures, among other things, we will give the possibility of immediately chanting public works by having the companies of the territory and the employees of the companies work. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Again: entrusting the treasury service to the Italian Post Office for municipalities with a population of less than 5,000 inhabitants, those municipalities that often experience the difficulty of closing post offices, which with this measure can give life to post offices in their Municipalities. I shall conclude by saying that we are aware that everyone would like to do more. But, as I have said many times in my nine years as mayor, we don't have the magic wand. We are working with humility towards concrete ideas. We are the first to want to see the many issues resolved even inherited, but we do not want to tease the Italians and the country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] We're all mindful of someone's shooting. We are not those of the new Italian miracle, we are not the ones who promised the Italians that, entering Europe, they would work five days a week. We do not use the style of the promises of the "bomb" with the motto "Italy changes towards" which contrasted the future with conservation. A colleague in yesterday's evening session of the Budget Committee has defined those who will have to approve the Budget Act at the end of 2019, and that of next year. I say the losers were the Italians ruled by the previous government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Government whose reserved future, that of Italy that changes towards, was to cramme our communities of asylum seekers, having to go down the streets, together with our fellow countrymen, to manifest, manifesting against your will to degrade our territories. We're here to work with our heads down... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u59	You finished with an extra minute, thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u60	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u61	Mr President, the budget law that the majority is about to ratify - with a completely annihilated parliamentary debate, dotted with real novels, based on a fake debate, stuck between improvisation and things not said - marks the final surrender of the fate of our country to the pen of the bureaucrats in Brussels. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is a budget law which is signed by sovereigns without sovereignty and which, paradoxically, does not totally remove us from the risk of infringement proceedings, and therefore from a period of new and tougher austerity. However, the written maneuver in Brussels puts an end to the theater - and this is perhaps the only positive fact - of the growth estimates judged unreliable by all international institutions and calls for a reduction in the deficit of at least 11 billion, i.e. a correction of 0.6% of GDP. So I ask myself: why have you celebrated on the now famous balcony of Palazzo Chigi the agreement to 2.4 deficit - GDP, if today that understanding - here in the text in the vote - is no longer there? Why did you exult at the abolition of poverty, when today, with this text under discussion, the scenario described gives us a perspective of degrowth and therefore an inevitable increase in relative poverty? With typical trait of crackers, soaked in celodurism, you imagined receiving the letter of Santa Claus. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Applause from the PD Group]] Instead, hand over to the country a letter that forces the European Commission to return to a deficit of 1.8, in fact to the situation in September. [[Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u62	Excuse me, Senator Stefano, I want to say to the senators of the majority that when there is some intemperance with them, it becomes difficult to suppress it, if they do so too.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u63	Please, Senator Stephen, continue. STEFANO (PD). I repeat: with typical trait of crackers, soaked in Celodurism, you imagined to receive the letter of Santa Claus and, instead, delivered at your hand to the country a letter by which the European Commission forces you to return to a deficit of 1.8, to the situation of September, with a cut of 0.6 points that today, however, unveils, in the face of a decrease in GDP, an increase in the weight of that same deficit on the country. So return to the most reasonable ratio of 2%, but in two (or perhaps three?) months spent with post shots, tweets and photos with kittens, you have burned something like 300 or 400 billion savings and wealth to Italians, you have charged an account of at least 1.5 billion euros of higher charges for debt management because of a spread that had skyrocketed and that even your approval will not manage to domesticate. But this, unfortunately, is not the final account of your incompetence. Unfortunately, that is not all. The rewriting done in Brussels, as a result of your irresponsibility, gives us a recessive maneuver in which there are no growth measures, investment disappears, companies are penalized, the South is mortified with heavy cuts in co-financing to regional funds, the turnover blocked in the public administration, and finally unmasked the propaganda of income of citizenship and quota 100, of which remains something more than the title and the absolute uncertainty of the activation times. Here, therefore, explained the cuts for about 11 billion euros in 2019: cuts, not additional resources. Among these, it shouts revenge the indicated reduction of at least 700 million funds for the regions, already allocated to co-finance the structural funds of the European Union, destined to the realization of actions of mitigation of the environmental and hydrogeological risks. Other than safeguarding the territory! It screams for revenge the cut of 800 million euros from the reprogramming of the Fund's fund for development and cohesion other than Minister for the South! It screams for revenge the reduction of 850 million euros to the remodulation of the funds of national co-financing. A true martyrdom worth at least 2.5 billion. But it's not enough yet. Instead of concentrating resources to accompany the clear signs of growth recorded until the start of this Government, with real masochism a cut of further 410 million is devised that goes to hit directly the facilities to the enterprises, through which limate the IRAP tax credit and totally reset the tax credit for the purchase of new capital goods; cut the funds of the Ires facilities and then, just to get hurt to the bottom, you also produce in a cut that reduces the allocation of resources for the intangible capital. You are working for the economic desertification of the productive fabric of our country, with a maneuver that you read on the contrary: a shame. But it's not enough. You also had to accept the inclusion of a safeguard clause of at least two billion euros, to ensure that the accounts are respected in 2019: a real guarantee - this time yes, innovative - in the practice of relations between the European Union and the Member States, to guarantee a payer who no longer trusts anyone. This is the result of the shoes of your MEPs crushing the documents of the European Commission, this is the result of yours "we will pull straight" and "me not care," the result of your pitiful arrogance, with which you are wearing a perennial election campaign, which lasts too, too long, unbearable and irresponsible. I repeat: the maneuver you are forced to vote is an instrument of recessionary economic policy, an orphan of any measure aimed at growth. Other than that, we keep all commitments, or we just exaggerated expenditure forecasts, you're unconscious. There is a further fact that is deeply concerned: the absence of flexibility spaces over the entire three-year period 2019-2021, because the Government has already mortgaged them all. Yes, because the government blew up the scheme that VAT clauses could be slipped from year to year, largely using flexibility. Until today it could be done, from today no more. In 2020 either VAT increases by 3.5 percentage points or it will have to be covered by other taxes or other particularly serious cuts from the point of view of political sustainability and even more economic and social. The main difference from the other maneuvers - and I say this to some of my fellow Members in the Commission who qualify as an economist - is that this time we have chosen to make full use of flexibility and throughout the three-year period; to waste it, to leave ourselves without protection. In the past, flexibility was achieved over the following year and important targets for the reduction of the structural deficit were maintained for the following years. Not this time: it is already expected that the decline of the structural deficit will be minimal in 2020 and 2021, so next year there will be VAT clauses of at least EUR 23 billion and at least EUR 29 billion in 2020, with flexibility that, at best, will not exceed 0.2%. The harsh reality of the numbers lies once again the vice-premier Di Maio, who still today dares to declare that he can guarantee the blocking of the increase of the VAT and to keep all the commitments, but also Salvini and Giorgetti, who with pocchia consider the safeguard clauses on the VAT only an accounting escamotage: perhaps they did not notice it, because they were distracted and engaged in other accounting games, but this maneuver has canceled that system. To remind us forever of the damage you are causing to the country will not be, alas, only your stories about Instagram, the fake news and social propaganda, the photos with kittens, or the shots that sometimes immortalize you with the drug dealers punished, and sometimes with a pathos that makes the verse to the scenes of the documentary Olympia, but the rubble that will remain after you. The rubble of a country you're cutting off your legs from, which you're erasing growth prospects, which you're subtracting hope and trust from. A country that today is returned to a new period of recession, an inexorable economic decline, but also cultural and solidarity. Of your bad actions will remain the filth, the malice and the double morale. Let us continue to repeat this: time will be a gentleman and restore the truth. [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u64	I'm gonna get you the interruption, Senator Stefano, but I'm gonna invite you to finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u65	STEFANO (PD). We repeat this again today in this House, as we have already done in previous days in the Commission, reaffirming our opposition to a finite maneuver worse than it was born, conceived exactly as opposed to what are the real needs of the country. Stop! BlackRock, the other day, made it clear that foreign investors do not want to know more about it than Italian BTPs. They no longer trust and no longer regard Italy as a reliable country. In this sense, the image of Prime Minister Conte, yesterday, in the Senate, surrounded only by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Moavero Milanesi, and that of the economy and finance, Tria, is the photograph of the political defeat of the 5-star League-Movement sovereign axis, with Di Maio and Salvini who no longer have the courage to put their faces on it. Stop. You're taking us back to the tunnel. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u66	Senator Conzatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u67	Mr President, today is a rough day for Italy, because we greeted a very good boy, a journalist, Antonio Megalizzi. [[Applause. The Assembly stands]] Antonio was a friend and I wanted to be in Trento today, to say goodbye, but I think a day like this requires him to say goodbye and that he would have wanted me to be here to tell you the things I'm going to say. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] He has fought a life for the truth, for democracy and for Europe, with great respect for the institutions, he died coming out of the establishment of the European Parliament in Strasbourg and he would not have accepted at all what is happening here today. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] I am not talking to a government that does not listen, I am not talking to a majority today that has not had the ability to listen to us, but I am talking to the voters who voted for this majority and I am telling them that we are in solidarity, that we understand them and that we understand their disillusionment, because it is now objective. The inability to govern a country is objective and the inability to write a maneuver that can paint the future of this country is objective. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You've been told a lot of things. They had promised an Italy über alles (let me, I'm from Trentino-Alto Adige): "First we", hand on the heart and punch on the chest, and then stuttering in Europe and asking for "please". This is not what we do in the institutions. They wanted to make an ass with the new European countries: we listened to Orban (I listened to him with my own ears) and we listened to Kurz at the European People's Party Congress in Helsinki a month ago. They were the first to say that this was not good and that it would have contaminated the whole of Europe in which we believe and want to improve. You wanted to abolish poverty and you told everyone, in the election campaign, that there were resources for 17 billion euros, then it became nine, now it's probably seven, of which one billion for the centers, who knows when they will leave, and two for the Rei, who introduced PD, and maybe four billion, to residual, for citizenship income. They have already said: 80 euros for perhaps 500,000 people. This is not the case: the truth is a value. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You wanted to punish short-term contracts, saying that everyone is entitled to an indefinite contract, you almost didn't know the economic situation of our country. Result: 53,000 non-renewed forward contracts. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You believed so much in permanent contracts that in this maneuver you wrote that you blocked recruitment in the Ministries, tax agencies and territorial authorities throughout 2019. Great consistency, very good! [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] You wanted to re-launch consumption and the best way to re-launch consumption what is it? Increase VAT: fantastic. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] 25.2 percent in 2020 and 26.5 percent in 2021, sterilized per hour, blocking and mortgageing two thirds of the 2020 and 2021 maneuvers [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] STEFANO (PD). Read the maneuver! [[Comments of Senator Mirabelli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u68	Let my colleague, who is talking about the three-year budget, speak as you know.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u69	CONZACTS (FI-BP). And then this thing is a little distorted: with one hand you give citizenship income, with the other you increase VAT so if you make a purchase to revive consumption, you find a very high VAT. This is inconceivable. You wanted to lower your taxes, damn it! The taxes are very high, removed the tax credits on training and investment, has doubled even the Ires (nearly no one noticed it) for non-commercial bodies: social welfare agencies, hospitals, universities, bodies and scientific foundations. The double of Ires: good, great! [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] Ninety-nine percent of taxpayers, except for small flat-rate taxpayers, will pay much more than now. BOTTICS (M5S). They haven't paid anything until today. CONZACTS (FI-BP). You wanted to repeal the Fornero. Well, the Fornero is there, it is in force and the decree that will probably change something will come into force, perhaps, in April and it will be a small window, of three years, for some, with reductions. The only thing we have all seen is the cut in pension adjustment beyond EUR 1,500. This already seems to be true. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] I turn to the voters of Movimento 5 Stars to say one thing: you wanted direct democracy, you wanted to be heard one by one: it is also a legitimate right and I understand it deeply, but here - know it, dear voters - they do not listen to anyone and write things in other places: in five, helped by the other five in Brussels, and here the Commissions see nothing. The budget committee, for which we have been available for fifteen days, has not seen the maneuver coming tomorrow. [[Applause from the FI-BP groups and Senator Malpezzi]] We asked for this embarrassing situation to be transmitted via the web, so that everyone could see (you made the flag for five years), but this possibility was denied to us! [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] Well, that's really bad. You will vote for this with confidence. We, trust, really can't give it. It is truly a matter of responsibility, historical and social. This is an undemocratic spiral. It is a truly negative spiral for the economy, but also for our entire society. So, I say this and I really want to say it so that it stays in the act: we are facing a coup against Italy and against Italians. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u70	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fenu. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u71	Mr President, the measures contained in the draft budget law that we are actually debating today are many - and my fellow Members are also making many examples - and there are many demands that come from all over the country; demands to which politics, of course, over the last twenty years, has failed to give comprehensive and even sufficient answers. The demands of small businesses, VAT consignments, professionals: for these subjects we have extended the flat-rate scheme, raising the threshold to have access to a turnover of 65,000 euros. With this extension a much wider audience of small entrepreneurs will be able to benefit not only and not necessarily from a tax saving, but also and above all from a greater tax simplification, with the exemption from industry studies, from the keeping of accounts, from the VAT return and from a whole series of obligations that adversely affect economic activity. It also introduces a series of interventions all aimed at always meeting the needs of the enterprises: from the cut of the rates INAIL to the mini Ires, to the incentives for those who assume young excellences, to the increase of the deductibility of the IMU until the payment of the debts of the public administration. With this last measure we will go to pay in 2019 at least 50% of the credits that companies today boast towards the public administration. Citizen's income will be introduced by the maneuver. The narrative on the income of citizenship that has passed in recent months in politics and, often, in information is made of phrases spoken - alas - also by authoritative exponents of what should be the most representative party of the left, what in theory should look to the needs of the weakest. On the contrary, you hear phrases such as citizenship income means giving money to people because they don't work or pay people who are on the sofa or even the citizenship income is an exchange vote. Perhaps it is worth reminding those who have made these remarks - in my modest superficial opinion - that just a few days ago, on 10 December, the 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights was celebrated, where, in Article 25, it is stated that "Everyone has the right to a sufficient standard of living to guarantee his own health and well-being and his family." [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The citizen's income wants to answer this question, it wants to introduce such a principle into our system. For this reason it is necessary to oppose those superficial narratives other and different narratives, those that speak of fathers of family, forty years old, fifty years old, who have lost their job, for which all the existing forms of social protection have been exhausted and now have nothing, not even the possibility of requalification, because even the formation costs. There may be abuses, of course; the risk of abuse is inherent in every measure of welfare, as well as in business facilitation measures; but we must not introduce those measures. Steps must be taken to prevent or minimise them. But this answer must be given and given. The introduction of income from inclusion by the previous Government shows, in fact, that the importance of introducing a universal minimum income has actually been understood, although with a completely inconsistent measure, moreover, as a result of a debate that we already in Movimento 5 Stars started from the last legislature. There are also other expansive measures that could have a wider multiplier effect on the economy: investment, the implementation of public works - also provided for in the budget law, through the road safety fund - schools and other buildings in small municipalities. These are actions with perhaps more important macroeconomic effects in the medium and long term. But to those who live in a state of poverty and whose hope for the future has been lifted, we cannot offer only articulated economic visions. These people need immediate answers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And citizenship income is our immediate response. Moreover, all the resources intended to finance this measure will give a direct and immediate boost to domestic consumption, helping to revive the economic sectors of food and basic necessities, which are the main productive and commercial sectors of our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Iwobi]] Over the last few days, everyone has said that we have had to go back to our relationship with Europe, that we have had to reduce the deficit-to-GDP ratio and that the maneuver has been written by Juncker. Those who dispute know well that this is not the case. In this regard, I would like to conclude with a sentence that I read a few days ago in an article in a newspaper that cannot be said to be on our side. The author of the article disputes that we have communicated too much, but concludes by admitting that the result, in fact, we have really achieved it and we could well have uttered the following sentence: "Everyone besieged us and threatened to start the markets against us and against you. We gave in a little to bring home the big guy. It is the truth and everyone would understand it. President, it is the truth and everyone will understand. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u72	President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today in this House we are debating a text which does not have - the second star on the right - a budget maneuver and the budget of the State which, in the light of the method by which it was built, is consoling our democratic system. Today we make meatballs and we eat seventy years of democratic history of this country. For the first time, in fact, the Government presents its maneuver without passing through Parliament. This is a total lack of respect for the procedures that are the essential basis in democracy. That's the method. I'm gonna go into it. The maneuver is irresponsible and unconscious which, to poorly satisfy the electoral promises of two distinct and distant movements, with distinct and distant political objectives - the income of citizenship on the one hand and 100 on the other - mortgage the future of our country, mortgage the future of our children. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The situation is so absurd that, in order to achieve a small citizen's income and a 100 quota that discourages retirement, safeguard clauses had to be put in place for 23 billion for 2020 and 29 billion for 2021. And this has only one meaning for the future of the country: there will be no more flexibility; nothing can be done, the guidelines and political choices will be inhibited. With Damocles' sword of VAT at 26.5 percent in 2021 we will return to barter. The maneuver of this Government will leave the two next maneuvers already complete with deficit and debt. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And who will come after that how will the next debt and the next deficit be defused if the country is thrown into recession? This government gives money for pretending to people because, on the one hand, it gives them a plundered citizenship income, reduced by another 2 billion, on the other it will take away resources from citizens by charging them the consideration in indirect taxes. The same will happen with pensions and 100, with which we will still try to discourage retirement and young people will remain outside. I am now talking about two topics that are dear to me: environment and culture. As for the first, pretending to be the Government of the circular economy and then putting stakes and blocking the system of authorizations for end of waste plants, instead of issuing a simple transitional rule in respect of the application of the European directive [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It means condemning a fundamental sector such as the recycling of waste to paralysis. As a result, it will affect the environment and therefore the future, and so we will find ourselves in the streets and warehouses full of waste and everything will have to go back to the incinerators and to the thermo-towers that you so vexed. The landfill space is running out; waste management costs for households and businesses are skyrocketing; there is a risk of collapse if recycling and recovery plants are not restarted and if we do not allow new ones as soon as possible. Moreover - as I have repeated on several occasions - this cry of alarm comes from every context, from Legambiente to Confindustria passing through all the ecological associations and from the same Regions and Provinces in every part of Italy. The other issue is culture and university. Pretending to support virtuous universities, allowing them to use in-active internal budgets to proceed with the recruitment of missing staff and then cut the ordinary funding fund [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , which is the main source of entry of Italian universities, while blocking recruitment until 15 November 2019, what do you call it? Do we ask the university world what they call it? For me it's a joke: either you take off the hiring block or you eliminate the cutting. Otherwise, the most important cultural institution, the university, is being mocked. But perhaps this is very far from the thoughts of many of us. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] As I come to the conclusion, I turn to the Government, rather than to the parliamentary colleagues who are cut off from this manoeuvre, to emphasize that those who are placed at the head of a country must have long vision to look far beyond the tip of their shoes, must have a long-term vision: this makes the difference. We will certainly not be assisting inerts and we remind you that the experiences of government, if poorly managed, condemn. Therefore, be careful not to joke with the good faith of the citizens and with the whole Italian productive class, that tomorrow it will realize that nothing is contained in this maneuver that goes towards economic growth, towards the encouragement of the enterprise, towards the reduction of the tax wedge and the increase of the job; that it goes towards simplification, the real one and certainly not the one that has been presented [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I would remind you that the European Commission - as many colleagues have mentioned before me - will not be promoting the budget law today, but reserves the right to decide at the end of January, and that is why we are deeply concerned, not for us but for our children, for whom we have the responsibility. Ask a parent anything he would choose between 80, 100, 780 euros per month for himself, or creating the conditions for his child to work and secure the future: Ask him! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Everyone therefore assumes their responsibilities with their own political history and with their electorate when the knots come to the comb. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u73	He's enlisted to speak Senator Iannone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, while waiting for the ship to bring us the final text of the maneuver, the only thing we can verify with certainty is that the Government is born incendiary and ends up being a fireman. In fact, from what has been announced and from what we have been able to see, so far this is a maneuver that is close between the usual logics of the European Union and the electoral logic of the Grillo-Legist majority. It is clear - as has already been said by many Members - that a electoral bill of exchange is granted to the majority forces. The country will remain suspended until 1 April, which is not the most serious date of the calendar - as we all know - waiting to understand well how these only two measures will work, to which all the rest of the State administration is sacrificed. We know that it will then be the implementing decrees that make the history of the operation of these measures. The approach of the maneuver for us is profoundly wrong. We of Brothers of Italy remain firmly anchored in the program with which we presented ourselves to the voters. We hoped that there would be a clear and clear choice in favour of companies, of the world of production, of all those Italians who, despite the shortcomings of our State, continue to do their duty, to believe in our nation, continue and insist on producing and creating jobs. Certainly they were waiting for clear and clear choices and going in the right direction to create less labour costs in terms of taxes. On the contrary, it seems to me that many new taxes are expected. There is no shadow of the flat tax, which has obviously been sacrificed compared to what were the main sources of electoral propaganda; just as a series of promises is not kept, which I like to call commitments and which concern the lives of thousands of Italians and especially the future of our homeland. The appropriations for education and research are absolutely insufficient and will continue to relegate us to the last places in the ranking of the nations that invest in the future. There are no commitments to a number of categories, such as - I repeat - the school's precarious, teaching and non-teaching staff, who were promised the dismantling of good school in the electoral campaign. Instead, after so many measures, we come to the budget law and those promises continue to be disregarded. There are no significant measures for local authorities, which represent the institutions of proximity to the citizens, who have asfittic budgets and, through this maneuver, will not see the hand of those snares and snares that prevent them from freeing up resources and making political choices of direction on the territories. We would have expected an important commitment - and we would certainly have supported it - to defend our territories. We have very serious problems of hydrogeological failure; we have very important problems concerning our infrastructure and the safety of schools. It seems to me that the problems that concern the everyday life of Italians and the tranquility of many families are also completely ignored on the political agenda. There is also a resounding lack of a policy for the south of Italy, which is a national issue. One cannot think of giving through the income of citizenship, state methadone, a decisive response to the Mezzogiorno that is thirsty for ransom and must have real possibilities to make development through what should be a serious plan of infrastructure of the territory. Gentlemen of the Government, it is of little use, not to say anything, to have a Minister for the South without having a policy for the Mezzogiorno. And then, even compared to what had been promised to the typical Italian company - I think of the seaside resorts, I think of the world of commerce, I think of the world of self-employed workers - we move towards a maneuver that delivers absolute nothingness and leaves absolutely unsolved the problems and serious difficulties that these categories live. For all these reasons I can only conclude by saying that the arithmetic cacophony between 2.4 and 2.04 will only make Italians feel the substantial difference between the word change and the word failure. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u75	Senator Taricco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u76	Mr President, I honestly thought that being here to talk about the state budget law could be an opportunity for all of us to speak in concrete terms about problems and answers. I thought that we could, in the course of our work in the Commission in recent days, discuss the substance of the various options, the proposals to solve the problems, and instead we are here to discuss a budget law in a sort of surreal climate. We are discussing a text which we know has nothing to do with what will be the final text that will be proposed to us tomorrow. We are basically discussing the content of a proposal that is not physically present. We are here to debate after the House has voted for a text of confidence and probably, in a few days' time, will vote for another text of confidence, to some extent calling into question the very nature of the institution of trust as provided for in the parliamentary regulations. We are here to debate after a few days in the Commission to analyse amendments; to choose, among all those tabled by the various groups and reported, about 500, which we have commented on and discussed from a certain point forward, knowing that all the work would be totally virtual, because elsewhere someone would have chosen, without any connection to what was the illustration of the same amendments in the Commission, to include within a text that would have been placed - it will be in a few hours - to our confidence, in a truly - as I said before - surreal climate. All this happens because two Vice Premier have played, in recent weeks, to show who is toughest, who is more able to command and to score a final point in a sort of bet on the skin of Italians. It is true that, in practice, we have been told that a budget law would be presented which would create a GDP deficit of 2.4%, when all analysts and economists told us, at the same time, that a proposal that would go beyond 2% was not imaginable or sustainable at all, on the contrary, many said that it would have to be around 1.8%. According to data from the Bank of Italy in early November, two months cost us more than 1.5 billion. As a final account, we are probably not far, if not beyond, the two billion euros of higher interest costs. We know that, after having paid these greater interests, there are many tens of billions of losses on the assets of many companies that have seen them devalue. We know that there has been a huge increase in the distrust of the economic world and of Italian entrepreneurs with regard to the prospects for their companies. We know that investments in all sectors have stopped - indeed, they have collapsed. We know that many foreign investors have given up investing in our country. Again, we are talking about a few dozen billion investments in government bonds and in our country that will be blocked. We know - the economic world tells us - that basically there has been a freeze on the country's prospects for recovery. As I said, all this happened because someone had to prove that they were better at putting in place measures that, in essence - we will verify it a posteriori - are of an exquisitely propagandistic nature. It is clear that the EUR 17-18 billion, which was said to have been invested in citizenship income in the election campaign, was reduced to nine when the budget maneuver was presented. Afterwards, we lost two more on the road with the corrections that the European Union has asked us for, but that the economic sense of general sustainability would have imposed on us anyway. If, much more simply, there had been a doubling of the resources on the income of inclusion, as we had proposed, the answer would have been correct. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Leonardo]] The money, in the end, is that, but we invest it to invent something new that we don't know if and when it will work. The same reasoning applies to pensions. We announced the abolition of the so-called Fornero law, which would cost between 12 billion and 15 billion in the first year. In the budget law, however, less than four have been allocated between six and seven, and in fact, less than four have to be put on the ground. All this has been done by providing for measures that affect pensions from three times the minimum (we are talking about 1,500 euro gross). I really ask what is the point of such an intervention, when, in order to be able to take this type of measures home, the government tabled amendments last night which involve the shift of investment. They are called remodulations, but - in fact - they are investments that were planned on iron transport, hydrogeological failure and co-financing to Community funds, as has already been said by colleagues who have spoken before. There is also the creation of a monster of a safeguard clause, because putting a clause of EUR 23 billion at the expense of the next budget is an operation that would bring VAT to 26.5%. I wonder if such an intervention is sustainable and if it makes any sense. In the election campaign, we were told that all excise duties would be removed, while we are seeing an increase in them in the future. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Leonardo]] These interventions make no sense. Let us now come to the agricultural issues, which I have dealt with more. The maneuver contains measures such as the assignment of land to families with more than three children and someone will then have to explain to us what the ratio behind such a leaping idea is. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Lonardo.]] Action has also been taken to combat xylella, albeit with the allocation of very little money, but all the amendments aimed at introducing rules to prevent and combat other parasites and all existing diseases have been rejected. We have rules that support the forestry sector and the promotion of its products, but then all the other measures that go in the direction of intervention on mountain products and many other proposals that we have put in place have been rejected. We have positive measures on the strengthening of the Central Inspectorate for quality assurance and fraud prevention of agri-food products, on the excise duty on beers, which is, however, more a mirror for lards than a measure of substance. We are talking about structures that produce less than 10,000 hectolitres per year. They are therefore valuable structures, but very small and not capable of engraving. We had proposed a series of measures aimed at addressing support for social agriculture, product traceability and investment in tangible goods, to which much of agriculture, albeit nominally, could access, but, in fact, just as the norm is congenial, it cannot do so. These measures were not examined in substance. We also proposed to extend the measures envisaged for young people, with regard to the IMU which then turns over to rent, but which were not accepted and received the negative opinion of the rapporteurs. We had proposed measures to extend the contribution reductions for young farmers. They also received the negative opinion of the rapporteurs. We then proposed support measures for supply chains, which have not been taken into account. We would have liked to have been able to work on all these issues, comparing ourselves with the majority, who are aware of our role as a minority, who placed themselves in the Commission in a very constructive way on the substance of the issues, trying to create room for reasoning. This has not been possible at all. I am happy to say that our contribution has been marginal, because we have tabled amendments that have never been voted on and we do not know whether anything that has been presented will be taken into account to some extent. I believe that the minority's contribution would have been important in any case. We would have expected - perhaps naively - from the political forces that have led a change in the respect of the institutions, and that in past legislation have explained to us that the commitment was to give Parliament a role and centrality, an approach of a different nature. The maneuver that we are going to discuss and which we will vote on tomorrow actually says the exact opposite of what those who wanted to stand by companies have said. It is a maneuver focused on welfare measures and pensions; it increases taxes and excise duties, reduces investment and support for private investment. For all these reasons we are not only convinced that the maneuver is wrong, but we are also and above all concerned about the country, because in fact the path of recovery that began to give signals of sedimentation and strengthening has been broken. Trust in the country and, above all, the possibility of looking with confidence to the future have been compromised. For all these reasons we believe that it has been and is a great missed opportunity. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Lonardo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u77	Before we proceed with the debate, I want to remind you of two young, barbaricly cut-out Scandinavian girls, after being kidnapped in Morocco by Islamic terrorists, who then put online the terrible video in which you see one of the two girls cut off their heads. This fact can only increase our aversion to terrorism and Islamic fundamentalism wherever they occur. [[The President and the Assembly stand and observe a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u78	Mr President, despite the late hour, I would like to share the feeling of deep discomfort experienced by working peacefully and constructively in the 12th The Commission, where we have been able to analyse the budget law, is obviously sub-health. It was possible to go deeper, and for me it was an important opportunity to meet so many patient associations. What I do most willingly in my parliamentary activity is to meet, if not directly, patients with their immediate health problems, the associations representing them, the scientific societies that in some way take care of them, and together to try to identify those measures that can improve their personal quality of life and quality of life also with regard to what we can consider public health. It was an interesting work - of course we did not vote for the maneuver, but we presented a minority report - a concrete work on the content, on the possibilities of improvement. For God's sake, we did not vote for what was proposed to us and they did not vote for our agenda either. But the goal was on the piece: it was to try to understand what our health care needs today and how we can, all together, respond to a reality that ultimately affects us all closely sooner or later. I have to say that a small circumstance struck me very much and in some way it seemed even auspicious. At one point we began to meet in the Chamber of the 7th Commission, and I wondered why we did not meet in our Commission, and it was answered that this room had been made available to lobbyists, i.e. those who present their needs to those who deal with the budget law. The idea that they were in the Health Commission made me think of all those associations, of all those people who are waiting for real answers from the budget law, concrete answers. In some cases they are answers in economic terms; other times they are answers in terms of regulatory simplification; other times they are answers that call at stake concrete norms that the country needs to be honest before another affirmation of principle that characterizes us, that is that famous, beloved article 32 of the Constitution that considers health a right. We are the only country that considers health a right and in this sense considers the protection of this right as a fundamental constitutional norm. We do a lot in this respect; we do not do everything we need and, above all, we do not do it for a number of categories of patients who deserve more attention on our part and who are waiting for answers from the budget law. Then we discovered that that law no longer existed, but that work that we did is important, carried out with conviction and passion, also a transversal way - if you want - in constant dialogue with civil society, with the most fragile, composed of disabled people, the elderly, chronic patients; that civil society in which many family members devote their lives totally to the care of their loved ones. I am thinking, for example, of the figure of the caregiver, of the complex and composite reality of rare diseases, which has long been asking us when we publish the national plan of rare diseases. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , when we realize what it needs. I must tell you - as is easy to understand - that my reading of the budget law is absolutely oriented. There has been another aspect that I have focused on: we all know that poverty is an important cause of illness, it is an element of permanent comorbidity in the care of patients. We know that if a patient succeeds in feeding well, nutrition also becomes a protective factor of his health, so if he has acceptable hygienic conditions, in which for example there is no humidity; we have seen many pathologies disappear in these years, precisely thanks to the context of social measures. Poverty is important as a fundamental health factor. We did not even believe as a joke that poverty could be abolished by law, which was too easy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We believe in the Child Jesus, in Rome we even believe in the Befana, but we do not believe that someone can come to tell us that poverty is abolished in this way, with a wand stroke. But we believe - this is true - that a well-made budget law reduces disparities, that it responds to that population that - this, read well, is a treasure of our country - that is at an advanced age, to the great elderly. You realize, however, that the elderly are those with a blocked pension, who have a low pension of 1,200, 1,300, 1,400 euros, which is immediately thinning and which affects the ability to feed, the possibility of caring, that set of therapies that are not strictly pharmacological that define the quality of life. We hoped and worked, we wrote everything (minority reports, agendas, amendments), thinking of doing this service to the country that - believe me - did not even have a political color, because the party of the sick, the elderly, the disabled is a transversal party. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I do not hide from you that while we are debating trying to understand with this budgetary maneuver whether we have become a non-Presidential Republic, but a Vice Presidential Republic, or are still a Parliamentary Republic [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , people from the street ask us to take care of them. We don't know anything, we don't know what answers to give. This is what weighs us, we are distressed, it gives us sadness, and we will not even know at Christmas - because the bill will then have to go to the House - what this law will bring to the class of the last of our country, and this is what pains us and makes us sadder Christmas. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u79	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pirro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I would like to begin with a sentence by Kapuscinski, a great Polish reporter and essayist who died in 2007: It is always power that provokes the revolution. Not on purpose. However, his way of life and government ends up becoming a real provocation. This happens when among the characters of the elite they establish the sense of impunity and the conviction that they can do anything, to be able to afford everything. What happened on March 4th, colleagues and colleagues, was a revolution. A gentle, peaceful revolution, made by millions of citizens who have deliberately chosen to say enough to that power represented by the old parties that for too long have been strong with the weak and weak with the strong. These citizens have chosen us, they have given us one of the most valuable things that exist: their trust. We do not want to disappoint them, and this draft budget law, the first of many, is proof of this. In these months, among the opposition benches, there have been those who had the nerve to shout "Shame!." Well, I think shame should be on them. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , that - from competent who they say they are - have left us a country with more than 5 million people in absolute poverty, a country where almost half of the elderly cannot even afford to turn on the heating in their homes. So what should we be ashamed of? What about citizenship income? In Article 1, our beloved Constitution, the one that someone wanted to change two years ago, states that "Italy is a democratic Republic, founded on labour." Well, if you haven't figured it out yet - or rather pretended - citizenship income is a measure for work, which will allow millions of people today excluded from the market and without income to look to the future with optimism. Should we be ashamed of altitude 100, with which we finally begin to overcome the Fornero law? To have defused the increase in VAT in 2019, a measure that protects citizens from an increase in the tax levy of more than 12 billion? Of cutting the gold pensions and raising the minimums at the same time? Of the 1.5 billion earmarked for savers cheated by banks, those abandoned by those who preceded us? Be serious. At least for once, please be serious. Among the folds of this maneuver are measures that the citizens have long been waiting for immemorial. After a long confusion, for example, we managed to put a fundamental stop to the many health professionals who could not register for the albums and, working in the health sector, after Law No. 3 of 2018 of Lorenzin, risked being out of work. Massophysiotherapists, for one. Here, in this case - I tell you quickly - who until 1999 had attended regional qualifying courses the profession obtained the equivalence with the degree and the consequent registration to the register of physiotherapists. Those who attended these courses, which continued to be recognized by the Regions, after 1999 remained out of the register and now risk not being able to work. With an amendment included in the draft budget, those who are currently practicing a health profession without an appropriate qualification will be able to continue to do so provided that they have worked for a certain period of time over the last ten years. In fact, this will allow him to register in special lists due to exhaustion related to professional books. Of course, there will be no equivalence of titles that allow registration to the books, but those who work can continue to do so: news that many have been waiting for and that I am happy to be able to give today. Not only that. For territorial authorities - another chapter that is very close to my heart - we set up a fund of 3 billion for 2019, 3.4 billion for 2020 and 2 more for 2021, which will grow to 3.2 billion annually in the period 2028-2033. From 2034 the fund will start again with 1.5 billion annually. We are going to help municipalities, provinces and regions on vital sectors such as public construction, maintenance and security of the territory, maintenance of the road network, prevention of seismic risk and the enhancement of cultural and environmental assets. These increased local investments are added to a billion more funds resulting from the unblocking of the administrative surpluses for the virtuous municipalities. We give oxygen to the territorial authorities massacred to date by the Internal Stability Pact and the principle of budgetary balance. In this speech, we can certainly not forget the involvement of the Cash deposits and loans in the anticipation of the Municipalities in a temporary liquidity crisis of resources that can be used to pay debts to companies. Finally, measures are coming out of this House that look at the real needs of citizens, of all citizens. At last we start looking back at politics and those who occupy these minds with confidence because the right answers come. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u81	She's enlisted to speak Senator Lonardo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u82	Mr President, never in republican history has there been such a contemptuous attitude towards Parliament. I congratulate the Undersecretary of State on the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, Senator Santangelo, who would almost deserve a medal, being the only one present. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I do not see the various representatives of the government who should be here and who knows where to prepare the last details, of which we will know nothing until tomorrow. However, yesterday you received the wise warning from the Head of State, who invited you to dialogue with Parliament, to listen to the reasons of those who, democratically, think differently from you. I understand you're in trouble. Frightened parties against Europe, threateningly bold, you had to accept the indications and the impositions; with childish arrogance you faced the balcony of Palazzo Chigi, announcing to the country your economic revolution, your unhappy decrease. Now from which pulpit will you go to explain your defeat and humiliation to which you brought Italy? We'll see about that in the next few days. GDP with you backs up, public debt increases and growth will remain at the starting blocks. In short, adopt a budget law that will make our economy vulnerable, which, strenuously, began to recover. Since this is and because they have observed and written the major media, you have begun to practice a vile attack on freedom of the press, in an attempt to punish the newspapers and the media, which have told the government's problems and its strategic problems in the economy. Have you wondered why the economic and social categories of the country are in revolt with respect to your measures? The social impasses are manifested with intensity and with a square that, from Turin to Rome, put her hands in her pocket to not applaud you. The honeymoon with the country is still ending. The king is increasingly naked and people have understood that the electoral promises will remain so. The flat tax has evaporated. [[Applause from Senator Dal Mas]] The income of citizenship, which has given you so many votes, in the state is a measure without head or tail, which will only lead to the lazy search for a job. The Fornero reform, which was the totem to be demolished, remains almost unchanged, while the 100 quota will have a very limited period for its application. You just raised a singular, as ideological, no sign. No to the TAV, no to the TAP, no to common sense, no to serious investments for the South, which, with you, returns to an unparalleled gap with the North. In this wretched budget bill, there is no economic element for the South that can give young people the hope of staying on our side. You want the South to become a sort of Indian reserve for the elderly, without facilitating economic activities that can make the services to be provided of quality. We want serious investment, which does not contain this manoeuvre. We want infrastructure investments for the South, such as, for example, the EUR 20 million I requested with an amendment - which you will not grant - for the purifier of the city of Benevento. I also recall the amendment tabled for the city of Avellino and the many other measures that I requested with the 100 amendments that I tabled and which were, of course, from the people. Your maneuver, for me, has only one fundamental positive element: it ridicules your sovereignism to clams. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] You had to change the line. The bad and ugly Europe - so you said in contemptuous language - has come to you, you have had to recognize its primacy and Conte has understood it. In the meantime, you have burned our credibility. Stop playing with fake reforms and think about how to help companies, think about how to avoid fleeing investors, think about rebuilding a fabric of European relations, where Italy can be the protagonist. I mean, think. Today your only obsessive thought is the struggle with the past. Remember, you start to be, too, and the fire on your flags is there to testify. It's a lie to say the government isn't back. Mr President-in-Office of the Council has made a resounding retrograde, because his initial manoeuvre did not stand the test of the facts. Difficult months are being prepared and unfortunately there is a risk of recession. The decree of dignity is anticipating it on the unemployment front. Stop, for the good of the country, accept the confrontation. You said that the oppositions tabled too many amendments. I remind you that behind those amendments there is the people, the people you call back in your every speech. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] Obviously you do not really respect it, otherwise you would have spent time working in the Commission and not mortifying those who would have wanted to confront and receive - why not, it is in things, in fact, also rejections. This should have been done, but this has not happened and represents your disrespect for the Italian people. You still have the head on March 4th: we have the head and the heart for the many millions of Italians, who from this maneuver will unfortunately come out devastated and disillusioned. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u83	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barbaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in introducing a few brief comments on the draft budget law that we are about to vote on, let me first express my personal appreciation - but I believe that I am interpreting the sentiment of all my colleagues in the Group of the Salvini-Premier-PSd'Az League (let it be clear, this is an important aspect of our social name) - for the work of our President-in-Office of the Council, who has led with authority and competence a hard negotiation with the European Union. To have avoided the infringement procedure without sacrificing the objectives that this majority had set itself, first of all 100 shares and citizenship income, corresponds to a great political success, whatever the opposition may say. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] I have listened with great interest to all the speeches made by my previous colleagues in the opposition, who have been based essentially on an exception, which is the one on the method and which, to be generous, in some respects is also acceptable. But on the merits they have melted, as usual, the book of dreams. The oppositions, during the discussion of the budget maneuver, always bring out everything that can be discussed within the financial context of a country. They do their job well, there is no doubt, and I think they do it so well that the hope that I want to address them but I think I can also interpret the thoughts of the whole country - is that this job, since they do it so well, can do it as long as possible. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Apart from that, this is not only a financial maneuver and a simple budget law, but it outlines a watershed between two different ways of understanding the country. It represents the diversity between those who regard Italian interests as priority over those who have always been succub to the Community bureaucracy. It represents the diversity between those who want to guarantee serenity to those who have worked for years and, at the same time, to promote the entry of young people into the labour market, compared to those who have raised the retirement age of Italians to the highest in Europe. It represents the diversity of those who want to restart the country system compared to those who have slowed its growth. I could go on for a few more minutes, but time is tyrant and I must refer to an issue that is particularly close to my heart as a representative of sports associations. There is an issue in the draft budget that I am interested in and I am referring to the reform of the sports system. Here again we are faced with an epochal change: for years we have been referring to our sports system focusing everything on the figure of the CONI, an important institution that has certainly done a great job and that has, in fact, compensated for the shortcomings of the state. For many years our athletes have gone around the world, have represented Italy well and have allowed it to achieve important successes that have improved its image around the world. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But there is not only this way of understanding sport. There is a need to develop a sports culture at three hundred and sixty degrees, which goes beyond the competitive aspects and can give sport a social dimension and accentuate its profiles related to well-being, improving the quality of life, education and prevention. For years the State, in an excess of delegation, assigned to the ICON the functions of a Ministry, without the ICON having either the resources or the competences. And if we want to talk about guilt, I'm not sure about the CONI. It is the state that has prevented the social affirmation of sport, entrenched behind these great victories and behind the great claims of our athletes who have hidden all the other deficiencies. Today, with this economic maneuver, the State regains its capacity to direct this matter by exercising it directly. There is no punitive intent towards the CONI, but only the intention to redistribute roles and functions clearly. We are, therefore, faced with a transfer of deliveries between a model that has exhausted its function and a concept of sport that aims to enhance its social function. This must not make us forget, however, what the ICON has done over the years, the results it has achieved and the respect that this institution deserves. To the CONI goes our gratitude and our attention because it has earned it over the years. It was the home of all Italians who have played sports and will continue to be so, in a context of renewal that, in fact, will involve the whole Italian sports system. But we, today, are giving great impulse to the change of the country. And we also want to do so in this area, trusting that, thanks to our work, it can actually become that great social phenomenon that it really is. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u85	He's enlisted to speak Senator Patriarch. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u86	Mr President, for almost two or three months you have told a lot of lies. You have proposed four budgetary bill schemes. You have broken every rule and every form of institutional respect that should be given to this House and to the senators. We have not had the opportunity, the right and the duty to exercise what the citizens ask us to do, namely to read, deepen, intervene, amend and enrich the bill, in this case the draft budget law, which is the most important bill. We find ourselves here empty, without being able to do what the citizens ask of us and what our constitutional charter asks of us. You have broken every rule of respect for oppositions, which are here today speaking about a law that they do not even know. You played with the European Union. You played and you had coats. You showed your muscles, but I also say you have to have your muscles. Either you have or you don't have: if you don't have, it's better not to play poker, because then comes the coat. I really recommend to ministers Salvini and Di Maio a few hours of gym during the holidays, because the muscles or you have them, and then show them, or you don't have them and then it is better to let it go. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] 21.56 (Followed by Patriarca). You've told a lot of lies and lies. I try to illustrate some points, quoting those that are very close to my heart. I quote an example of a tale, told with extreme persistence and with many lies, reporting the example of the family: 1,721 billion is the account that we made in the third draft of the bill of budget that we still have to see; 1,823 billion the resources that the Democratic Party and that so terrible Government that destroyed the country had posted for the family. Compared to our figure, -100 million. But then, as the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars will say, this billion and seven hundred million euro that we have allocated to the family you do not recognize us? Of course we recognize them. Too bad they are all invested in initiatives proposed in the previous legislature. You have simply renewed what you dispute on this evening, nothing more. On the family so evoked, I remember the hearing of Minister Fontana, who really proposed an agenda of profound, radical, truly amazing change. And we were shocked by this farsightedness. So I ask you, making a list, but where are the birth proposals? Where are the proposals for relaunching childcare services? Where are the innovative proposals for work-life reconciliation? Where are the proposals for corporate welfare? These proposals are needed if the family really is the heart of change. We have not seen anything; you have reproposed what you have contested for five years. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You told us: no to bonuses, no to this and everything you contested. You said: this is not how family policy is done; it takes foresight; it requires change. If you read the third draft of the budget bill, you will find nothing; you will find the repositioning of bonuses, the bad things, drinking and short-sighted things that the previous government had illustrated. The second proposal, which is nothing but a smoke in the eyes, is the promise to fight and eradicate poverty. In your maneuver you proposed 17 billion, if you remember. Then you dropped to 9 billion and then - I think and you will tell us tomorrow - we dropped to 5 billion - if I remember correctly - of which 2.5 billion are destined to the Rei. Then what will happen again, always exercising this principle of loyalty to which we constantly invite you? You will do nothing else - because there is no other possibility and you cannot activate employment centers - than to propose in your own version - we will grant it politely - the income of social inclusion. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You're re-proposing the same mechanism. You will surely say that this is the income of citizenship and that you have wiped out poverty. We will measure you on this, but you will propose the same mechanism and, as it happens, in the public debate the municipalities, disappeared for months, reappear the associations. Once again, it is a question of making a proposal, a proposal of nothing. You will repropose the things you have contested for five years. Remember the fairly frank, honest and sincere debate on the concrete decree. Minister Bongiorno was present. We said that matters were more serious. But you answered by saying that you are focused on video surveillance, biometric identity, that you have the core of concreteness and that you would change public administration. In this budgetary manoeuvre, once again extend the turnover and do nothing but re-propose what we have already proposed. You're proposing it again. You're selling smoke. We discussed for three days the decree-law concreteness, the core of the concreteness that would change the public administration, which would really turn the public administration. If you go to read the third draft of the draft budget law (the one of the House because the fourth one is not yet there) you have to say: achicchietta, Undersecretary, we will finally have the heart of the proposal for change. Instead, you read and say: but where is this proposal? Even extended turnover to 2019. Undersecretary, make a major operation: raise the corporate income tax, double it and hit the third sector. Then one wonders: but how? They want to combat poverty, they want to make the most of subsidiarity - it seems to me that it is a topic very dear to you and the League, together with fiscal federalism - and then you steal 118 million euros from the third sector. Then we ask ourselves: what is the operation? On the one hand, it is said that we must combat poverty and, on the other, subtract the bodies that can support the path out of poverty EUR 118 million. Take out 110 million euros at INAIL, scraping the barrel. You who are for the dignity of work, for the always safe and secure work you subtract it from an institution that guarantees or should guarantee training and safety at work. Once again extend the indexation of pensions. You want to change the Fornero, but you're proposing it again. The indexation of pensions to EUR 1,500 is again proposed. You're stealing the future from young people and you're stealing that little hope there's still in this country, and you're gonna realize that to everyone. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u87	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u88	Mr President, the great assault on Europe, the insults against the highest representatives of the European Commission (which can and must be criticized but I believe that the insults, at least at international level, are counterproductive) have resolved in an unconditional surrender to that very hated European Commission. I speak of surrender without conditions, even if someone says that at first the Commission asked for a deficit of less than 2% and the government spoke of 2.4%, with celebrations on the balcony, with the defeat of poverty and all the other announcements, with claims not to move a millimeter, saying that the letters of the European Union were not interested in anything; someone shoved a shoe over the letter of the European Commissioner; someone said that they would write a letter to Santa Claus. But then you had to give up completely. Why do I say "completely? Some may say: there is a deficit at 2.04 percent. Apart from the fact that the victories for the Italians consist in being able to make useful measures for the Italians, certainly not in making more debts, which are then always debts of the Italians; however, if it is for a good reason, it is also good to make debts. But, I say this because in order to cover this very little greater deficit that has been allowed to be done, we had to do what the present majority has always execrated and pointed to the grievance when others did, that is, to put the safeguard clauses. The safeguard clause is that you colleagues in the majority are going to vote (I have to say that you have little alternative, because, like us, you too are prevented from having any kind of influence on this bill, except to vote no, which is still there) to write black on white that from 1 January 2020 heavily increases excise duties on petrol. Remember the proclamation to delete them at the first Council of Ministers: nothing has been done on that occasion, when you get to the point, you put it in black and white that since 2020 increase and in the meantime remain absolutely intact, from those of the Ethiopia war to what will be done now from 1 January 2020 for the income of citizenship, which is not there. Therefore, if we do not intervene, these safeguard clauses will enter into force. We are well aware of the difficulties that have occurred this year when the safeguard clauses, which the current Government and Italy inherited from the previous one, were 12 billion, but in this case we are talking about 23 billion. In other words, to pay the debts you get into debt, but much more. Is this way of administering the State healthy? A family father who did this, how long do you think it lasts? How long do you think it's gonna last before they foreclose the whole foreclosure? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Is such a thing wise? In addition, we are doing so in order to make the income of citizenship, of which, according to the latest figures, the budget provided for in the first draft budget law has been cut (or rather, we know this from an amendment circulated in the Commission, which, however, could not vote). However, for the 9,368 million poor people who according to Istat are in Italy, they fall to 72.35 euros per month; it seems to me that in the electoral campaign and still from the balconies there has been talk of 780 euros per month, not 72. There are 72 because Minister Tria, who always has a great sense of humor, said yesterday that the income of citizenship and the 100 quota will start from 1 April, a date that should make someone suspect: in short, on 1 April. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] Tria is a man of few words, but with those few words it is very well explained. Thanks to the fact that the income of citizenship will only be there for nine months, assuming that there was from 1 April - I emphasize - there are 72 euros per year, after there is a few million more, but the months of 2020 are twelve. Apart from the fact that, before making that expense, we will have to find the 23 billion to cover the safeguard clauses, we go down to 62,76 euros per month (always in place of the 780 promises). The defeat of poverty has given 62 euros a month to someone. But then there is still more dust under the carpet: a lot of hirings are promised. This is undoubtedly an old story; of course, when others did it, they were most heinous things. Hiring people or promising to hire them should win consent. Yes, but they do not hire before the second half of November next year. I imagine that the many who are waiting for a job will say that it is better November next year than ever. True. But what does it mean to hire them after mid-November? It means that you don't pay a single month during 2019 and so everything turns over to 2020; more dust under the carpet, because then those will be hired, unless you think to fire them on January 2nd, 2020. I mean. It is a gravely irresponsible attitude. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] At the same time, a series of public works are blocked, the ones on which we can aim for recovery, and all this is done by preventing Parliament from working. The House was asked to work on a phony text, while the Senate cannot express a single vote, except that of trust. Do you know what Parliament is for? It is not only for the purpose of setting up the premises, it is not for controlling the costs of Parliament itself (because otherwise it would be a little unnecessary), but it is for ensuring that measures, particularly economic ones, are discussed in the light of the sun, so that everyone can vote for them one by one. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The fact of having her write to some official of Palazzo Chigi or elsewhere is the guarantee of giving the green light to many marcettes and marcettine. And then you tell us about the end of corruption: here you make billions, you make hundreds of millions [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , because, if you leave the power to some person, whose name you don't even know, it is clear that someone will be taken by temptation. You don't know the name of these officials anyway. You will know only your names, which are rightly covered by immunity, thanks to Article 68 of the Constitution; but your conscience is not protected by the exacrement that the Italians will have when they discover the ruinous effects of these measures. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u89	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ruspandini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u90	Mr President, the Cittadino di Lodi, the Buonasera di Taranto, the Corriere di Como, the Corriere Romagna, the Cronacaqui of Turin, the Chronicles of Naples, the Crotonese of Naples, the Crotonese of Crotonese, the Dolomiten of South Italy, the Ciociaria Oggi, the Latina Today, the Cassino's survey, the Metropolis of Benevento, the Province of Civitavecchia, the Quotidiano of South Italy, the Daily of Sicily, the Roma of Naples, the Sannio Quotidiano of Benevento, the Setteserequi, the Voice of the Canavese, the Voice of Mantua are twenty of the great newspapers of many Italian territories that, for a brainic norm, dear President, contained in this amendment, will be forced to close in two or three years' time, to completely resize their activities. I mentioned only the local newspapers, but there are more than 150 companies involved in this measure, employing thousands of journalists, publish monthly and weekly, without mentioning the induced and the spill over on the territories. It is a cowardly rule, Mr President, which will produce its affections in ten days' time, when the planning of company forecasting budgets is now done. A rule included in this maxi amendment, the content of which none of us knows, without debate, without comparison, without the possibility of being modified. I myself have chased Senator Crimes many times, even with the help of many people of the Movimento 5 Stars, who wanted to make themselves available, but who unfortunately failed to prevent this dramatic measure. A rule that the President of the Republic should absolutely block, because it calls into question the pluralism of information itself, a fundamental principle of our Constitution. A rule that should not be in the availability of any majority and that never and never should be changed with a maxi amendment voted with confidence, without even a real passage in Parliament. I wanted to quote these local newspapers without calculating precisely how much the induced, the families and the companies will be affected. This is because the Movimento 5 Stars, since its constitution, wanted to start a campaign, through Grillo, thinking that probably this funding served to the great newspapers of state like "the Republic", the "Corriere of the evening" and "the Messenger" that we have always fought. Instead, dear friends and dear senators, today the Movimento 5 Stars, with this rule, gives more sales and advertising revenue, more than 200 million euros to the great newspapers. Those who (wrong because the press does not fight by eliminating it) wanted to hit the newspaper instead serve him on a silver plate an unexpected Christmas gift. And, with the silence of the League, it is probably possible to feed what comes to mind to many of us, that is, this idea of formation of platforms and blogs so dear to Grillo himself and the associated Housewife, who are unfortunately the real leaders of this Government. [[Applause from Senators Fazzolari and Rizzotti.]] Here, what you have done has a dramatic and devastating social impact on the territories and provinces. The 5-star Movimento certainly does not shine for the number of local administrators, it is a new movement, and it does not know what a daily means for the territories, it does not know what it means for the provinces, dear President, tell what happens in the small remote municipalities of the mountains. The newspapers, the local ones, are outposts of freedom and justice, give the opportunity to know these territories. You have taken them off, you are destroying them on the altar of globalism, on the altar of the great newspapers and these great social newspapers like Facebook and Google, which only partially, in fact, you want to hit with a web tax, an idea to which, if you had the humility to talk about it in the Commissions, we would definitely have given our contribution. Millions of Italians - I want to add this - are shopping on Amazon and eBay right now. Thousands of businesses run by Italian entrepreneurs remain deserted. There it had to be struck in order to try to find the necessary funds for a maneuver that had to be, that yes, really of change. And instead no, you hit Italian excellences, so people who do business in Italy, who pay their employees 700 euros per month and who pay taxes in tax havens are protected; instead, they are cut off the legs to real entrepreneurs, to thousands of journalists who have studied to do that job and who every day put their faces on us. Instead of destroying a healthy, virtuous and strategic system for many Italian provinces, the Government, the President Conte and the Undersecretary Crimi had to think of a rule that would force these giants to repay their debts to the publishers, who would make them responsible for the fake news that spread, which provided for them the same sanctions and the same rules that have always governed the publishing. This is only a small cry of pain for this malterto, for this tragedy, since the Government unfortunately wanted to be fierce against the Italian excellences. It is an ugly and sad page of this Parliament and of the history of the Republic. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u91	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, those who preceded me, not only the senators of my Group - and certainly in a more authoritative way than I can do - but also other colleagues from the opposition, have effectively described the contempt for the Constitution which, from several quarters and for a longer time, in particular you of the Movimento 5 Stars, you have placed as an essential bulwark, and we are here today debating a budgetary manoeuvre that we do not know and have not seen. The members of the Budget Committee were literally kidnapped for days, as in the Achilles Lauro, and then voted nothing. That's the truth. I'm told there's no record of that. However, regardless of this, yesterday the President-in-Office of the Council gave himself an attempt at reasoning, saying that, at the end of the day and in some ways, the fact that there is no increase in growth and GDP could also be positive, because it allows us to make more deficits. Maybe I misunderstand, but it seems to me that several news agencies have reported the news today. This is very dangerous because someone - certainly not me, who is the last one - will explain to the President of the Council that balance of the budget is a structural obligation and that Europe will no longer give us discounts in the future. I am referring to those same discounts that you have somehow tried to beg for today, abandoning the stated objectives that this maneuver will not reach: the income of citizenship - a pious illusion - and the quota 100. All these maneuvers fall within the scope of hypothetical things, but in fact we have seen - perhaps we will unravel it in a more concrete way tomorrow - that they are not counting, urgent and not even expendable. This is because the safeguard clauses are a terrifying butchery, because in the coming years we will have a potential increase in VAT from 22 to 25-26 percent. Who's in for it? The Italian people. And you are the Government of change, the Government of the people: you have reckoned without the people. You call yourselves the Government of Change, and you are the Government of Nouns: the decree "security", the decree "dignity", the decree "concreteness." You are a government of nouns but without substance, that substance that you have tried to show also in the recent anti-corruption measure, with which Minister Bonafede has wrapped himself inside a purely ideological cloud all of his for which Italy is only a country of corrupt. Colleagues, Italy is not a country of corrupt, it is a country of honest citizens mostly! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You must overturn the paradigm in your head, you of Movimento 5 Stars. I appeal to you, who want to represent the people and are, in fact, those who think dramatically of the Italian people and not of the drama of the Italian people and of poverty. You think Italians are a people of corrupt, that's the truth. In doubt, you have built the threat and a system - today Senator Bonino has said it clearly - in which the separation of powers does not exist because the Government, the majority and the masters of steam (you are still mentally in the nineteenth century) want to also exercise a judicial function in this country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This is the drama that Italy is experiencing today. Well, I am going towards the conclusion of my speech, which will not change the history of parliamentary speeches in any way and will have no impact in the debate in itself. I think you've had a chance, but you've wasted it. I am thinking of a very small and marginal fact, which is also contained in the budget law: the introduction of the dry coupon for non-housing, commercial and small-scale rentals. A measure that, like Forza Italia, we have supported and respect to which we also have a paternity. The Berlusconi government was in fact the first government that introduced this measure in 2011, which allowed to solve a problem, indeed to decrease the area of tax avoidance, recovering to the coffers of the state about a billion in little more than six years. I am talking about the dry coupon for housing. The introduction that you make today is totally ineffective because it is only planned for 2019, only for a year, so it cannot explain effects; you do not also expect it for all leases, but only for new ones. It is therefore an ineffective and useless measure. I think it is a measure that demonstrates the fact that in essence the Government of the nouns is greedy and it is also in the introduction of a measure that could not and can only do good to the coffers of the country and the pockets of the Italians. You haven't been able to think either. I do not know you, Undersecretary, which party you belong to; I am thinking of Movimento 5 Stars, not the League, which is and is here at my side, with which we govern the Regions and have important responsibilities. It is also true that vice-premier Salvini, speaking precisely of situations related to real estate taxation, said that they would remove the IMU and taxes on derelict stores. You haven't seen this. You didn't do this. All this, dear friends of the League, unfortunately, I must pin it on you, was a promise announced, betrayed and missed. This is not an extraordinary amount of money, but simply about EUR 170 million per year, which is largely recoverable over time, but with beneficial effects and social justice. I believe that, speaking of the real estate sector, the Government of Change should have changed the policy that came into being from 2011 onwards. I am sorry President Monti is not present in the Chamber, but it is from his Government and the idea that Italy had the lowest taxation in the real estate sector that was built the taxation and a vexatory cargo, almost expropriative and predatory for housing and for Italians. I remind you that 90 percent of Italians own their homes and there is the foundation of wealth. You couldn't even imagine how to counter that policy that from Monti onwards... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u93	I'll give you a few seconds to finish, Senator Dal Mas. He's out of time.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u94	BY MAS (FI-BP). Mr President, you are absolutely right. I conclude with the hope that there will be some rethinking, but I do not think that is possible; you have decided to move on in this way through an understanding that is not good for Italy and for Italians. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u95	Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u96	Mr President, we are here this evening, at this time, to defend Parliament's dignity. We are here to discuss an encore maneuver, different from the one that was adopted with confidence in the House a few days ago, without even having in hand the text of the maxi amendment on which trust will be placed. In fact, since no confidence has been placed, we know nothing of what may possibly be recovered from what was discussed, never voted, never considered, never deepened in the Budget Commission, which for a week worked - "worked" is a big word - on texts in total absence of a concrete prediction of what could be accepted, acceptable, discussed, real and concrete. Look, I'm not just saying this for us about the opposition, but also for the benefit of you of the majority, because this stuff here will have passed over our heads, but it's also passed over your head: because just as we learned it today looking at the newspapers, you read it in the newspapers too. For a moment I thought: but what is the project? There is a Minister for Direct Democracy, and here you go straight: don't even come by Parliament to do things. Is that direct democracy? [[Applause from the PD Group]] But if we in the last legislature had done such a thing, President Taverna, Undersecretary Santangelo (Cioffi, where are you? Senator Lucidi?), you would be there in the government benches, not because you ruled, but because you would have occupied the benches and the bars, to protest with the greatest force you could have. We saw you here with your hands dirty of black protesting against things you didn't share, and now shaving the sludge! Is that democracy? You get past us today, you get over it. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]] This is the Parliament that you had to open up like a box and not even live television today! You can't see what you do here; it's true: it's stuff you can't see. The President of the 5th Commission has come here today to tell us things for which I have no words. Those things he said, I don't know where he caught them. He came to tell us that it would take several days in the Commission. I hope several before 31 December, and not several days going beyond 31 December, otherwise the provisional exercise would have taken place. The truth is, this maneuver is a temporary exercise. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Because he's not standing. It is a provisional exercise because we are now voting on it, but it will not have the strength to resist anything. Because the country needs more, it needs another balance composed of actions that are not at all contained in this maneuver. The country needs investment, to promote work through investments, which are not there here; indeed, it cuts them off and calls them remodulation. We are talking about railways: EUR 2 billion less investment. And make a maneuver that manages to recover some of the conditions in Europe. It is clear that the sovereign government that is rewriting the conditions of maneuvering by Europe is a great success! But I don't want to dwell on that. I mean, when you rewrite the maneuver, you say two things. The first is that what you approved of in the House was a big fake in the budget: the biggest fake in the budget of history, because it contained numbers that were not unsustainable in any way, starting with the expected growth, to which was connected a whole series of aspects that were to be the engine of the rebirth of this country. Today you lose things that have the strength to be considered probable that you have to add gigantic safeguard clauses, because there is no certainty of what you write inside. And all this has the result of taking the future away from this country, the young people of this country, of removing certainties in this country to those who want to invest, because today with this maneuver there are no more certainties. In addition, put your hands in the pockets of the Italians, because going to block the indexation of pensions - and from that obtained 3.5 billion euros, not rude - go to make an operation that in Europe have done, at most, the Countries at the time when there was the peak of the crisis. Greece did, but we are talking about the years immediately following the great crisis. We are talking about seven to eight years ago. France seems to me to have done so in 2014 by slipping the adjustments by six months. Well, do all this at a very different time and I believe that - of this we must be convinced and, I say it to my colleagues, also proud - if today there are conditions for you to make presentable this thing that will really send the country in trouble for us is because before there were a government and a majority that have gone the difficult way and that have tried to keep under control the debt and to stake out what you could on investments and not on current expenditure. That's the point. You enjoy this advantage, this positive history of the country and today, thanks to this, you can do this provisional exercise. I hope - I conclude with a joke - that next year you will still be there, because if you are not there, here will be the troika, we will not be there either. [[Applause from Senator Conzatti.]] Unfortunately, next year's maneuver is already done, because the extent of the safeguard clauses to be remedied is worth a great deal of new maneuvering. This, if it can stand, is a maneuver that is enough for two years and it will really be a problem for our country to overcome this difficult moment. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u97	He's enlisted to speak Senator Turco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u98	Mr President, the budget law that we are about to vote, the first of this Government, is intended to represent an important and radical change of paradigm compared to the unsatisfactory policies adopted in recent years, which have disregarded the desired economic growth, despite the favourable international conditions, have not achieved the objectives set, have increased public debt over 131% of GDP, have increased social inequality and poverty, have brought the country to the brink of a new recession. Unfortunately, the proposed budgetary policies have supported the so-called debt trap, of which Italy, among the European countries, is among the most affected. In the negative economic picture that has emerged, only Germany has managed, in these difficult and complex years, to reduce the deficit, bringing the debt-to-GDP ratio from 81 to 65%. The growing vortex of the deficit is a direct consequence of a perverse paradigm, married and supported inexplicably and irresponsably by the European authorities, which have considered the sole financial stabilisation and the consequent reduction of the debt as the panacea of all evils. However, this perspective, based on austerity policies, proved to be illusory and deceptive because, in addition to having been disregarded by the growth of both structural and overall debt and deficit, it ended up slowing down and now halting the economic recovery of the eurozone, as well as the economic recovery of our country, which is also unique, among the countries of the Old Continent, not having reached the levels of pre-crisis growth. In recent years Italy has pursued indiscriminate cuts in public spending, generalized turnover blocks, inexplicable reduction of infrastructure investments in human capital and research; incomprehensible rules that have stiffened, beyond any common sense, the procurement market, transferred, for incomprehensible reasons, the ownership of public debt to the international financial markets, adopting, moreover, perverse rules of placement - I mean the so-called marginal auctions - that contribute to placing the debt at the highest rate offered by the market. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I wonder and ask you how it has been possible to try to reduce the debt in a period - the past one - of a favourable international situation and with an interest rate market close to zero. The reality shows that we have perhaps missed a great opportunity, that is to modernise the infrastructure, technological and intellectual structure of the country. We have continued to support unproductive current expenditure, financing it and increasing the debt. The financial statements of the years 2016 and 2017 show, in fact, the imbalance that has come to accentuate between the current part and that of the investments, true motor of the growth of a Country. In 2017, against current expenditure of EUR 550 billion, we invested around 10% of the total. Today, we also inherit a country with a significant unemployment rate, rising to over 10%, technologically backward, with high and widespread poverty - over 5 million people - and above all with an economic and financial cycle that is not structurally balanced. It has therefore become necessary to break this disastrous debt trap, which now holds prisoners in many European states and threatens the social stability of Europe itself, as demonstrated by recent violent events in France and Hungary. In the context of this new perspective, the current Government deserves the credit of having proposed a different budgetary maneuver: of an expansive type, which aims to increase investment, support incomes, promote consumption, feed growth, support the business world. A maneuver of about 32 billion euros, much higher than the one from 27 and 28 billion euros of recent years, that can count on a series of measures, like, for example, the increase of the infrastructural investments and the investments in the human capital, through the introduction of the income of citizenship, the release of the turnover - content of the decree-law concreteness - and the abolition finally of the law Fornero, with quota 100. [[Applause from the M5S and FI-BP groups]] The relaunch of infrastructure will then be supported by new central and decentralised design centres, the release of the administrative surpluses of local authorities and the announced reform of the procurement code. Citizenship income and 100 share represent for us investments [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] and not simply monetary costs, because they aim to requalify the country and alleviate poverty, reduce unemployment and ensure social peace. I conclude by thanking the Government and the political forces that support it, because they have shown responsibility and firmness: responsibility for having dialogue with Europe and for avoiding the infringement procedure; firmness for not giving up on meeting the objectives and promises made in the electoral campaign.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u99	Turkish Senator, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u100	TURCO (M5S). I believe that the road has now been marked. Several will be the pitfalls and dangers. Nevertheless, we must persevere and move forward with force. This budget law is what Italian citizens want. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u101	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u102	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, I understand that the timetable does not facilitate attention, but, as colleagues have already said during the debate, we are faced with a maneuver that is and is not there. There is, however, a series of statements that appeared in the press today - with which, at this point, I would say to end the evening - although I know that the Senate was engaged in this debate. In fact, we saw the vice premier Di Maio in the front row filling out a nice little sheet - I think you've read it - with written what would have been done in this maneuver and what therefore considers things done. It is therefore a sort of synthesis, to say that he has done things, while we, at the moment, do not yet know what we must approve. The a bit more pathetic thing of the day, with reference to the income of citizenship, was the interventions of Grillo and Casaleggio, who, understanding the difficulty in which the majority is found, thought well to say "bravo" to Di Maio for having managed to insert the income of citizenship in the midst of all these difficulties and evils of the newspapers, with the oppositions that scream and the whole world that goes against the Government of change. I am not jumping on the issues that have already been addressed, but in order to respond to the things that Di Maio says have been done - please the colleagues of the 5 Stars to warn him that the maneuver is being discussed here - I think it is necessary to examine this leaflet. Some points have already been explained by my colleagues. For example, Di Maio puts at the first point, among the things made, the blocking of the increase in VAT. Senator Malan, in his speech then taken up by other colleagues, such as Senators Dal Mas and Conzatti, has clearly explained that the issue of safeguard clauses on VAT is not only a debt, but in fact - and I do not insist on this concept - it is pretended that we have a kind of well from which to draw about 20 billion euros a year, and then it is not well known who will forgive us. In the list there is then written, and also "Citizen's income: fact". In the transition to Brussels the income of citizenship has been reduced to EUR 5 million and here too I am not making it long, but I remember that Senator Malan always - I apologise if I mention it again, but he spoke of these two things in particular - when he explained the accounts of citizenship income to you the first time he said that it amounted to about EUR 82-83. Tonight he redone the accounts and said that it amounts to about 60-62 euros, because on the way Europe has cut a lot, that is 1,9 billion euros (which of course are not there now) on an audience always phantom of 5 million interested (that instead there is and remains). But the issues of the fact and not the fact, which we have already had the pleasure of reading, concern, for example, the issue of pensions which is truly abominable. Disability pensions, in fact, from what is clear, are not raised, but they level everything on the fantastic income of citizenship; invalidity pensions would not have increased, but re-evaluated, and then there are a number of bands depending on what can be considered more or less rich in order to decide the indexing. In order to recover some money, we do not have the cut of the golden pensions (this we will explain, as we will explain everything else), but we have the usual old system of the contribution of solidarity that have used all the governments of this country, providing a time window because otherwise comes the cleaver of the Constitutional Court. Compared to the 30% issue, we are always faced with the things that Di Maio has done and sprang up. Here I open and close my parenthesis: I understand the fatigue, because they started by saying "we break the world" and returned as we saw them coming back from Brussels, but sometimes silence is also important in politics. Needless to say, the 30% reduction in INAIL premiums is made, when we know very well that 30% is achieved as a sum of a series of measures that has even taken the Letta government: remove it from the'made', because it is not the government's stuff. On the IMU we lay a pitiful veil: Mr Dal Mas spoke about it. Both Europe and the IMU do not take it away, because it starts from the assumption, if you go there to discuss, that it must slaughter us for what concerns the real estate, which are one of the most important assets in the country. Let us not talk about the statements that have been made with regard to the issue of recruitment. Then tell Bonafede for my part, Mr. Undersecretary, that I am waiting for him to be a fugitive, because I have not understood this history of recruitment since November and if by chance there is a differentiation between the extraordinary and the ordinary, so maybe Salvini does his and something from the researchers put in; but the magistrates are ordinary assumptions, so the famous mega-task force of magistrates that should solve all the problems of the times of justice certainly until the first of November cannot be done. The way it is put, you can't even hire those who were to be hired before. This is an important point as far as I am concerned, given that there are already Bonafede's statements on his huge and extraordinary assumptions on the web. It is a point that will have to be clarified, in the sense that of course we will see how it will go, since there is a block of all recruitments in the public until November (with differences or not), which is obvious because it allows a postponement and to make some cash. One of the last things I wanted to touch on, taking into account the time I have left, refers to a very fair thing that Mr Conzatti said with reference to Ires. He also said that we didn't notice it here (and it's true), but look that outside the CEI noticed it and so much. Today, then, he gives you "Avvenire" and gives you the CEI. I understand that one must say that he is close to the Church, but the Church is also made of concreteness and should be heard in his warnings. In conclusion, I would ask, and I ask why there is a different political conception, to Vice-President Salvini, who today decided to make the proclamation that he would not vote for the European Union budget for the problem of agriculture: firstly, to feel with President Tajani, who has been talking about the problem of agriculture for six months; secondly, to close with those who are the proclamations. In the end, if one comes back from Brussels with the pives in the sack he can also keep quiet, which is a bit more dignified, at least in the newspapers and on television. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u103	Senator Ferrero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to bring this House to the fore by thanking my colleagues from the 5th Commission for their work in the Commission. And if there was not even the technical rejection of the non-marked, as some of my colleagues have said, it is because the Commission had decided, at the request of the oppositions, to maintain, however, until the end of the day, even the unmarked amendments, so much so that many have been readmitted and discussed. Despite efforts, the 5th Commission has not completed its work, and I can only be sorry about that, but it has also discussed and deepened all the proposals of opposition. As a result, Italy needs urgent action in every sector, from infrastructure to local authorities, from business to social affairs. And this is a situation that, undoubtedly and really, has been inherited from the past. Dear colleagues from the opposition, I understand the game of the parties but you cannot point your finger at a government that has not yet approved its first budget maneuver! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] How can we not point the finger at a Commission that has postponed its work while waiting for a result? What were we waiting for, if not the outcome of intense negotiations with Europe? A European Commission that initially wanted to hang us at 1.6 of GDP deficits, allowing us to make a miserable maneuver of less than 15 billion euros! Basically, we could simply defuse the safeguard clauses desired by the Democratic Party, averting the increase in VAT to 25% for 2019, and nothing else we could have done. There would have been no further room for other measures. Instead, a 2.4% was rightly claimed and, out of bargaining it resulted in 2.04 percent! The budget law has had to be reduced in the light of the new numbers, but it has certainly not been distorted as some say. The cornerstones of the maneuver left the Chamber remain unchanged: 100 quota, with overtaking the Fornero law, and citizenship income, a single tax to 15% with raising the minimum regime to 65,000 euros, which wants to be a start of flat tax. The increase in VAT, which this Government has certainly not caused, remains averted. Then there are many other measures. I am thinking of doubling the detaxation on the IMU of industrial sheds. I am thinking of the facilitated taxation of countervailable profits for the purchase of capital goods and the increase in employment. I am thinking of the introduction of the dry coupon on commercial real estate rentals. I think of Formation 4.0 that has been recovered. I am thinking of the chapter on public investment: it will be a challenge! We are being questioned that we have spent little money on funds dedicated to investment and infrastructure. But it is a matter that, being my first experience here in the Senate, has left me amazed: what is the use of allocating resources to infrastructure if then the resources allocated are not allocated within a few months? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] We must then be able to allow these funds to convert to new infrastructure, to investments that drive growth, development and employment! It's not enough to allocate! And that is the challenge I am referring to. And that is what this majority is trying to do: unlock existing resources. The government is trying to make the most of the financial spaces resulting from the successful bargaining with the European Commission. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] I thank the Government for being able to get the most out of a Commission that for now has the knife on the side of the handle, but that also knows that the discontent in Europe is strong and must be distangled between the widespread discontent and an innovative Government, the Italian one, that finally goes to Europe not with the hat in hand, but to treat and obtain. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u105	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Martin Luther King, in his famous and famous speech of August 1963, gave one of his most famous phrases: "I have a dream". He dreamed of the end of racial segregation. We too, women and men of the Movimento 5 Stars, more modestly we had and we have a dream, that of bringing politics back to its original role, no longer an occupation of power, no longer a grey and deaf bad management of the public thing, but on the contrary a noble and high activity, an organized system of listening to the needs and problems of citizens and the social partners, a complex of individuals and institutions able to give concrete and common sense answers to businesses, professionals, artisans and people, especially those who suffer. In recent years those who have governed this country and Europe have forgotten the high objective that politics must have; they have forgotten the citizens and their sufferings and have privileged the economic potentates, friends, banks and financial organizations. Since 2011 foolish and absurd austerity policies have been adopted that have exacerbated the problems instead of solving them. We were told that austerity was necessary, that it would heal and bring benefits to the public accounts, that our sovereign debt would decrease and that all this would promote employment. They told us that we had to make some sacrifices, but that it would be worth it. Unfortunately, none of this has happened. Public debt, for example, splashed from 116.5 percent of GDP in 2011 to 131.2 percent in 2017, during the Silver Gentile Government, your Government. In this same period of time, our fellow citizens who are below the absolute poverty line have doubled to 5 million. Unemployment has increased, precariousness and bad work has exploded; the so-called middle class has disappeared. On the other hand, people who were rich have become richer and those who were powerful have increased their position of strength and privilege. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] These foolish and absurd economic policies dictated by Europe and put into practice by previous governments have marked a transfer of wealth from a huge mass of citizens to a small number of privileged ones. This betrayal of the Italian people perpetrated by the governments that preceded us and this historic disaster will be reported in the history books that our children and grandchildren will read in the coming decades. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] The Government of change wanted to reverse this trend and presented a revolutionary maneuver that would ensure social equity and avoid in Italy street protests like those of yellow vests in France because for us financial stability must go hand in hand with stability and social equity. Given the highly innovative and expansive nature of this manoeuvre, it took a few weeks for the European bodies to fully understand its beneficial effects. Thanks to the work of the President-in-Office of the Council we avoided the infringement procedure, which, among other things, would have been related to the public debt of 2016 and 2017 and, therefore, of the Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri Governments, your Governments and certainly not to the work of the current Government. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] This would have been yet another mockery, also because France is now once again allowed (so systematically) to exceed the limits laid down in the European treaties, as will happen in 2019, in order to try to appease the motions of the yellow vests square that I was talking about earlier. Thanks to the skill of our Government we have avoided the infringement procedure without giving up in any way the cornerstones of the government contract and the electoral program of the Movimento 5 Stars, therefore without giving up in any way the income of citizenship, the increase of the minimum invalidity pensions and the quota 100 for the overcoming of the Fornero law. In fact, the content of the measures, the timing, the audience of the beneficiaries, the amounts that will be paid to them remain unchanged from the forecasts and will start at the end of March, exactly as we promised. To those who today cries for the scandal for the safeguard clauses (which are then exactly the ones that introduced them) we say to be quiet: as we sterilized the clauses that you have put for 2019, in the same way we will sterilize those for the years 2020-2021, because with the action of government we will recover billions of euros to date wasted in order to maintain your clientele and power, to favor friends, to remain glued to comfortable and rich armchairs. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The corrupt sweep law, which we strongly wanted and approved in record times, will help us a lot in this work. In the next three years there will be investments for almost 20.7 billion; moreover we have convinced Europe of the necessity to put in place a powerful plan of investments for the maintenance of the territory, to avoid the hydrogeological failure, for the safety of bridges, roads and infrastructures, because we want tragedies like that of the bridge of Genoa never happen again. We have also thought of craftsmen and professionals, small and medium-sized enterprises, adopting the flat tax of 15 percent for revenues up to 65,000 euros, which will therefore affect about one million subjects; from 2020 there will be a flat tax of 20 percent for revenues from 65,000 to 100,000 euros, so the beneficiaries will increase even more. The people's maneuver is fair, so we will reduce the golden pensions to those who have not paid their social security contributions, but only to the latter. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Those who have poured everything out will obviously not be touched and this will be our umpteenth temporary measure of solidarity with those who are worse. We love our country, we are proud to be Italian and we want Italy to become a leading country for Europe and the world; we want Italians to live in a freer, more supportive, fairer and fairer country, a country to be proud of. All our political and government activity is and will be addressed only to these objectives [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u106	Senator Ferrazzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u107	Mr President, this evening we have heard a lot of speeches regardless of their content, like the last one. They seem to be written speeches regardless of what the draft budget is really about. Let us remember, as my previous colleagues have already done in a very effective way, that it had to be a great expansive maneuver, of course dotted with many "me ne frego" and spreads eaten at breakfast; evidently these spreads went sideways since yesterday Vice Prime Minister Salvini, who made himself beautiful of these phrases (among other things not very original) did not even show up here in the Senate, the moment when Count was left alone to tell the failure of our country's economic policy compared to Europe [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Pharaoh]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u108	Senator Pharaoh, in any intervention? I was hoping that at least with hers she would spare the comments to the sides; at least with hers.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u109	[[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Pharaoh is in support, Mr President. But, I was saying, expansive in this maneuver what is there? There is the current expenditure, which is an expense - I say it technically - parasitic and clientele, which has nothing to do with the expansive policies that would serve our country, those that go into investment, those that, starting from Keynes onwards, have also made the wealth of nations, those that were able to set in motion processes of real growth and collective well-being. Well, there is no mention of all this, just as there is no mention of flat tax, this great maneuver wanted above all by the League, which thought of a single rate for Italian citizens. Of course it could not be maintained at all, because the cost of that promise or electoral dancing, as we know, would be burdened on taxpayers' pockets for 50 billion a year. It is quite clear that we will see this promise neither now nor ever. Mr President, I would like to concentrate very quickly on a number of issues that have only been dealt with marginally this evening and which are fundamental. I am referring to the environment, the territory and the cities. Now, these are themes of which especially the 5 Stars have filled their mouths in the electoral campaign. We have just concluded the World Climate Conference in Poland, an annual conference that has been held for twenty-five years now, after the Rio Summit in 1992. Well, this is the real emergency. There is absolutely nothing about all these issues within this budget law. On the other hand, it has also been absolutely noisy to see how, while in Poland the world was talking about its own future and the thorniest issues, the government has practically not commented; nothing has been read, no official or unofficial position on the fundamental issues they have spoken about and on the political decisions that have been taken. You see, Mr President, the issue of the environment is not for experts alone and it is not a matter for the living room environmentalists, as someone has said. It is a central issue for us and our children, and this government has completely forgotten it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , starting from the first maneuver in which it had to Remember that. On the other hand, this is entirely consistent for a government that sees as a majority shareholder that political force which, almost exclusively (fortunately for Europe), voted against the ratification of the Treaty of Paris, not more than two years ago. And it is quite clear that that total disinterest in our future and our children is maintained in national policies, starting with this budget. This does not surprise us, also because this Government is standing by the Trump of the United States and the Putin of Russia, which are the two great obstacles, as big as a boulder, that are carrying out a crazy environmental policy towards the whole planet. You see, Mr President, there is not only a lack of climate adaptation here, a question that all modern and contemporary countries are facing, taking note of the fact that change is now structural and not contingent, but also lacks any mitigation policy, which is ABC and which comes well before adaptation. You see, Mr President, here we need an action plan, from the point of view of, for example, innovative ecobonus; instead, we simply extend everything that had already been established by the previous government. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I could read the list of ecobonus that have been put into effect; here simply there is a mere extension. There is an extension on energy efficiency, building renovation and the purchase of large appliances. That's it, that's it. That's what you did, beyond the bullshit you told in the campaign. No tax advantage for those who produce recyclable and reusable goods; no measures to facilitate the construction of repair and recovery centres; zero on the circular economy. In fact, with an amendment tabled by you, which has pissed off both environmentalists and producers (congratulations, it is not easy to do so), I refer to the amendment on the end of waste, you have put at risk the closure and suspension of recycling plant activities. A real fatal blow to our country's recycling policy. Congratulations. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Gallone]] I leave the issue of hydrogeological failure at the same time because we have already discussed it and if you have any good faith go and see what you have done. I only mention the genius of the unique design center that we do not know from which mind it may have come out, from the centralist mind of who certainly has never administered even a condominium of our country. In fact, to think at national level of a single central planning and design for contracts means not having understood that in this way absolutely nothing will be done, that a series of courses and resorts will start so that all local investments, even ordinary maintenance, will be blocked. This will happen. Zero on the right to home, zero on urban regeneration, there is no intervention for urban regeneration of our cities. In general, zero on cities and outskirts, zero on sustainable mobility, infrastructure, s mart cities, smart technology, zero on energy and in particular on environmental sustainability, research, innovation and green economy. I close, President, by saying zero about innovation, quality and sustainability. You 5 Stars have to deal with these promises. You have filled your mouths and documents with these promises and there is none of this. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we are very sorry that we had made ourselves available to improve this measure. We had tabled some amendments on the subject of the environment, cities and the territory, on the internal areas, on the demolition of abusive buildings, on the funds for the unconscious morosity and for the civil protection, for the restoration of the woods and the sandstones affected by the environmental destruction of October and November, on the new ecobonus, for example for the reclamation of asbestos, which is needed like air. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Ferrazzi. Mr Ferrazzi (PD). I add the institute on the solidarity fund for families affected by natural disasters, the bonus earthquake and incentives for urban regeneration. There is no trace of this because there was absolutely no chance to talk about it. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u110	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ferro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u111	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, when my Group asked me to speak frankly, I was not going to accept it because we have absolutely not understood what we are going to vote for tomorrow and this is very, very serious. I have therefore tried to retrace at least this last week's work in the budget committee. For almost fifteen days now, Mr President, the Budget Committee has been summoning and deceiving itself with the texts of our good President, Senator Pesco, but frankly nothing happens after these texts: no vote, no debate, no hearing, no publicity. No votes, we have voted for nothing at all, the rapporteurs have put aside a number of amendments, many of which have been tabled by all colleagues, but no votes and no publicity for the work. We had asked, in addition to using the Senate's internal channel, to be able to advertise the Commission's work. We were initially told that President Alberti Casellati would not authorize it. It appears to us that President Alberti Casellati had immediately authorised the publicity of the work of the Budget Committee, which was not done. We asked for a hearing at least of the Parliamentary Bureau of the Budget. We adopt a budget law without having heard what the Parliamentary Budget Office thinks. It is as if, in a capital company, the shareholders' meeting voted on the balance sheet without reading or listening to the report of the union college. You can't. I repeat, we cannot: it is forbidden by the civil code of our country. No argument. Allow me to address two colleagues in particular. Now I will surprise you (even in view of the time, I am very tired). There are two colleagues here, who, like me, are members of the Italian Association of Arbitrators: Undersecretary Santangelo and Senator Castaldi. The rules of the football game are made up of seventeen rules: the field, the off-game, the fouls, the mischiefs, the corner kick, the side shed and the figures of the referee and the assistants. Then there is an unwritten rule that is always taught during the course: the eighteenth rule is that of common sense. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I am referring to the rule of common sense that every referee must apply in order to manage a football match well. This common sense, with all honesty - ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing you - is absolutely not in the maneuver. You said you were the majority of change, novelty, and doing. To this day, of all these things announced with great prosopopea, we have seen absolutely nothing. On the subject of the'straccio' which has passed through the Commission, however, some things are quite clear. It is quite clear that you have put a mortgage on at least the next two financial laws (the 2020 and 2021 laws). In fact, with the safeguard clauses of 23 billion in 2020 and 26 billion in 2021 you have put a serious mortgage for those who will have the legitimacy to govern the country in those years. Something else has passed, but it has been taken up by a few of my colleagues. Europe, from the "me ne frego" to the pants down, just to tell us clearly, these days of President Conte, obliges you to stake two billion as a guarantee to see, as schoolchildren, if you behave well and if you do what you have said or promised. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] If you do not do so, the European Union will put its hand on those two billions. I'm moving on to citizenship income. Professor Turco talked about poverty. Co-worker, I'm also in favour of everyone getting better in this country, but we have to agree. We want everyone to be better, not that we all become a little poorer. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We would like the development of the country to pass through an increase, where possible, of all our fellow citizens. And it is not with these six billion euros that the base of the five million poor of our country is satisfied. We're teasing them - you're teasing them - and playing with simple people can become dangerous. You've seen the balcony. It's a bad sign for our country, a very gray and dark page. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We do not play in this way with the democracy of our country. Those who have seen the balcony have had a bad ending, let's always remember it. You don't look at the balcony, you go in the middle of people talking. In these days you will have realized that something is wrong. Let's take the world of car hirers and taxi drivers. The other day, car hirers with drivers (NCCs) were pissed off. You couldn't get in here, you couldn't get out.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u112	Senator Ferro, please use other terms.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u113	IRON (FI-BP). You're right, Mr. President. Hirers with drivers got angry. The cab drivers got angry this morning and yesterday morning. Is it possible that, within the same sector, you can make them both angry? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] There's something wrong with me. You've burned 250 billion capitalization since you've been in government. It will be the fault of Europe or who knows who, but it is wealth removed from the pockets of Italian citizens. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is money taken from the pockets of Italian citizens, the result of savings and work. You took them off, I don't know how foolishly, but they were removed and burned. You said that poverty was abolished. I have some doubts because, as some of my colleagues said, today's result is that those who are well, are getting better and better, and those who are sick are getting worse and worse. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This is the result of your action. You have said that you are in favour of the connective and productive system of our country and of small and medium-sized enterprises, those that represent, especially in the North and North-East, from which I come, the supporting fabric, the old locomotive of our country. Reduce the guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises which, if you do not know, is the system that allows small and medium-sized entrepreneurs access to credit. This means that the small craftsman, the small farmer and the small farmer cannot enter with these credit guarantee funds; a credit that costs more and more thanks to the maneuvers you have made. The lack of access to credit in our country is becoming increasingly serious. A colleague asked me to say something in Venetian; from us it is said: "Pèso el tacon del buso," worse the patch of the hole. Congratulations. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u114	She's enlisted to speak Senator Accoto. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am proud to discuss today a maneuver that finally puts in place a whole series of responses that the country has been waiting for too many years; a maneuver that has decided to invest primarily on people, those same people from whom in recent years social demands have come completely unheard of by those who preceded us. I would point out that while we are discussing the budget law, various social needs are exploding before our eyes in other European countries, such as France. The law has the merit of having intercepted these needs before and better than others, taking advantage of measures with very high social impact such as citizenship income, 100 percent share, increase in minimum pensions and compensation for savers cheated by banks. The resolution and the resettle of the now famous four banks, which Mr Lannotti recalled in his speech, has also affected the economy and the citizens of my territory, the Marche. Bank Marche's failure led to the zeroing of one-life savings for thousands of people in a sad and gloomy Sunday afternoon in November 2015. Let me bring this testimony to myself, as I have listened to and seen closely the stories and sufferings of these people; small shareholders and bondholders, pensioners and small craftsmen who, investing in their country bank, believed to support themselves and the economy of their territory, did not want to speculate or get rich, but only to safeguard their savings for a serene and carefree old age. The expectations of these people have been disappointed and betrayed by a state that has not only not protected them nor defended them, monitoring in a necessary and appropriate way the work of the great managers and the budgets of the banks, but that in fact stabbed them behind, reset with a decree-law all their savings, downloading on them the bankruptcy of the credit institutions and the robberies of an entire ruling class. The tragic stories of savers, their tears and their protests are wounds still open. Colleagues, the majority did not just listen to these people, but once they arrived at the government they considered the compensation and reimbursement of these people as an imperative and a primary objective. Once again the Movimento 5 Stars keeps the promises made in the electoral campaign, despite European constraints and budgetary constraints. This government has allocated 1.525 billion in three years for the scams of the banks of Central Italy and the banks of Veneto, will simplify the procedures of reimbursement through direct refunds and, as a priority, families with lower incomes. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] To date, we will include bondholders excluded from refunds, due to the complexity of the previous refreshment mechanisms. We will increase the refreshment for bondholders to 95 percent. As far as shareholders are concerned, we will finally be able to alleviate their unfair capital losses through an initial reimbursement of 30%, up to 100,000 euros, to cover the widest possible audience. A audience, however, that does not include the big shareholders, managers, managers and all those who had positions in boards of directors and control, nor the foundations. But - I repeat - the reimbursement compensates only the weakest and the helpless. And here we are debating and voting on this budget law, with the full awareness that, while not totally erasing past dramas and injustices, it represents the firm will of the institutions to no longer allow them to remain indifferent and helpless in the face of these events. Never again. A state and a policy again at its side, protecting the weakest and considering social cohesion as the compass of its political activity. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u116	She's registered to speak Senator Rivolta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u117	Mr President, I would like to speak first of all about what happened in the 5th Commission, including as Vice President. I sincerely believe that many phases have been made and it is not fair to point out that the 5th Commission has done nothing. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] We have gathered during the day, on evenings; we have all worked in the respective groups even on nights and there has been a preparatory work that none of our colleagues of majority and minority can deny. [[Comments of Senator Pharaoh]] I say this in order to take up what has already been said once again: that it does not work to discredit the whole category, the whole Commission; it does not make sense. Has there been an abnormal situation? It's true. Did we want to avoid it? Of course. We would have preferred to be able to carry out the work as almost always has happened, because there have always been so many obstacles - not like this one. There's been a lot of trust. I mean, none of us were born yesterday and the youngest here is 40 years old, so let's not be scandalized. But this work has been done. Above all - and I would like to say this because this is also part of the great work that, if we want, is much more tiring than the Commission's real one - there has been the intercourse with all the political forces present in the Commission, in the presence of the Undersecretary Castelli, but above all of the Undersecretary Garavaglia who has shown, as always, an incredible availability and not only a great competence. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] It is true that there is always a lack of someone, of the minority and not of the majority, who does not congratulate him on his frankness, clarity and competence with which he intervenes. I say this for all the people who, hearing some colleague say we didn't do anything, believe it. And no, gentlemen, we have been here for weeks - I repeat - day and night. And it's part of our job. We're not being heroes. It is part of our work when we deal with certain types of measures. There was a general, calm discussion; there was a stage of illustration of the amendments, which was organized on subjects and which ended earlier, during which the Government was listening and took note of everything that has been said. So these phases were there. We could have easily started to vote - as it was also taken into account - all the proposals that we knew were marginal and that would have been thinned out. We were all told: we know that the timing is very tight (because we knew it before, certainly we started late), so let's try to contain the amendments. Well, almost 3,500 amendments by all. Then we said that we should work better on the most important issues, on which we have also managed to find a way of interlocution and construction. We did not want to do this because minorities, as is their right, have asked to wait, because it did not make sense to vote one thing rather than another, and to start an analysis of eligibility and inadmissibility. So many fishing were required, so many revisions of the inadmissibility and this was the work of the last day and a half. There was the hypothesis that this was the end, unfortunately, for the timing, but I refuse to make anyone who listens to us miss - and I want it to remain on the record - a voice that says what happened. I repeat that at this moment I am not speaking on behalf of either side or the other, but in defence of the Commission. Unfortunately, we have come to this point; we would have preferred to have an answer before, to be able to have a full discussion, to be able to improve the text, but that is not possible. At this moment I think it is more important, in absolute terms, to avoid the provisional exercise and thus to do so. I hope that this does not happen anymore, honestly, but I do not allow the valuable work that has been done to be done. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] I hope to find myself inside the maneuver even with the important and intelligent demands that have been proposed, not only by the majority, but also by the minority. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u118	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again. He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again. As you know, there has been a meeting of the Conference of Leaders which has set a time frame and, on the basis of these times, speeches have been recorded. [[Brusio.]] Let me finish my speech, and then perhaps you will remind me of your requests. I have to interrupt our work here in order not to take the opportunity to speak to those who knew that it would intervene tomorrow, since the time was calculated and tomorrow the sitting will start at 9 a.m. and the general debate will end at 12 noon. In line with the fact that many people today have deleted themselves from the list of members, I will interrupt the work first and I do not know if tomorrow, who was registered to speak today at midnight, because he knew that the sitting would last until 24 hours, will have the opportunity to speak. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u119	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-75.ana.u120	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Friday, December 21, at 9 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 23.40 a.m.
