ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:36 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 9 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on document LVII, No 1-a. The rapporteur, Senator Dell'Olio, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u5	Mr President, Ministers, Senators and Senators, the DEF Update Note is one of the key instruments of the country's financial and budgetary programming cycle: the Update Note contains the reports on investment expenditure and related multiannual laws, the Policy Report on fiscal expenditure interventions, the Report on the results achieved in the field of measures to combat tax and tax evasion, as well as the Report on the non-observed economy and tax and contribution evasion. It is also annexed to the Report to the Parliament (referred to in Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012) which illustrates the update of the return plan towards the structural policy objective. The international macroeconomic scenario illustrated in the Note shows a growth of the economy in 2018 less widespread and solid than was assumed in the DEF last April: in fact, in the first half of 2018, the recovery of the international economy was less homogeneous and synchronized than last year, with slowdowns in some advanced economies and uneven growth prospects among emerging economies. The picture of the exogenous variables underlying the Update Note is therefore, on the whole, less favourable than that presented in the DEF. The risks associated with a further deterioration of the international framework remain high, especially in relation to the growing protectionist tendencies stemming mainly from the policies of the US administration. Other global risk factors remain high, such as oil price volatility and Brexit-related uncertainty. With regard specifically to Italy, in the first half of 2018 real GDP increased at a lower than expected cyclical rate, with a growth rate of 0.3% in the first quarter and decelerating to 0.2% in the second quarter. The slowdown in growth is mainly attributable to the loss of the positive contribution of the foreign sector, which had instead supported the recovery in 2017. As a result, real gross domestic product has not yet recovered the pre-crisis level. The Update Note therefore presents the updated forecasts of public finance to current legislation for the period 2018-2021, which indicate an increase in the annual estimate of net debt compared to the DEF last April for all the financial years considered. The trend scenario predicts GDP growth of 0.9% in 2019 and 1.1% in both 2020 and 2021. In particular, for the current year, the forecast of net debt in relation to GDP, albeit falling over the previous year, has deteriorated by 0.2 percentage points compared to the April DEF, reaching 1.8%. The revision of the estimates also leads to a deterioration of the expected balance values for the years 2019-2021: from 0.8% to 1.2% for 2019, from a balanced forecast to a deficit of 0.7% for 2020, from a surplus of 0.2% to a deficit of 0.5% for 2021. Both the primary surplus and interest expenditure contribute to the revision of the net debt balance compared to the previous trend framework. Overall, in the new forecasts, the primary surplus relative to GDP retains a growth profile, but less pronounced than the April DEF, reaching 2.4% in 2019, 3% in 2020 and 3.3% in 2021. The 2018 Update Note then updates the public finance policy framework for the period 2018-2021. The planned net balance targets (NFS) of the State budget in terms of competence are set at a maximum of €68.5 billion in 2019, €56.5 billion in 2020, and €45.5 billion in 2021. In its report to Parliament, the Government presents the update of the return plan towards the medium-term objective, which for Italy coincides with the balance of the structural budget. Specifically, it announces that the path towards the medium-term objective will only resume when economic growth is consolidated and, in particular, when the unemployment rate and real GDP return to pre-crisis levels. The net debt target is therefore set at 2.4% of GDP in 2019, 2.1% in 2020 and 1.8% in 2021, in line with a constant structural balance target of less 1.7% of GDP in each of the years 2019-2021. This path is justified by an incomplete recovery of per capita income levels compared to pre-crisis values, by persistent territorial imbalances, by the downward revision of actual growth in the first half of 2018, by the deterioration of international macroeconomic prospects, by the depreciation of the exchange rate of international competitors, by forecasts to the rise of energy and oil prices in particular. The growth rates outlined in the trend framework for existing legislation are considered by the Government to be unacceptablely low, as well as those resulting from the pursuit to letter of the debt objectives set out in the European rules. The Government believes that a restrictive fiscal policy would deprive the public budget of resources intended to boost demand and improve medium-term growth prospects, as well as social sustainability. This orientation is supported by the belief that the Italian economy is still far from full employment of resources and that the persistent weakness of cyclical conditions is not adequately grasped by the estimates produced by the official methodology for estimating potential product and output gap. The Note also clarifies that the increased financial resources made available by the revision of the path of approach to the medium-term objective will be destined, first, to support growth through the relaunch and strengthening of public and private investments, with the aim also to reduce territorial gaps. Greater public investment will be carried out, consisting in particular in a program of extraordinary maintenance of the Italian road network and connection: moreover the Government intends to favor the resumption of such investments through the development of a task force in order to improve the ability of the public administrations to prepare, evaluate and manage plans and projects. Another instrument for the recovery of investments will be the involvement of participating companies or holders of public concessions. As far as private investment is concerned, however, only credible and prolonged income support, according to the Government, can improve business expectations and lead to a more determined recovery of accumulation. With the aim, therefore, of improving these expectations, as well as improving social inclusion and stimulating generational replacement in the workplace (also with a view to enhancing the skills needed for innovation), the Government intends to take two ambitious measures. The first is the income of citizenship, which is primarily intended to increase labour mobility, encouraging the accumulation of human capital through the training of the workforce and the adaptation of the skills of workers to those required by rapid technological changes, which change the needs of the labour market. This will be done through the restructuring and strengthening of Employment Centres. Secondly, citizenship income will contribute to the improvement of the quality of life of the many people living in absolute and relative poverty. The second measure consists in overcoming the so-called Fornero law and the introduction of early retirement. This would allow older workers to retire first and, at the same time, favour the generational shift and the inclusion of young people in the world of work. This replacement is fundamental in the transition to the so-called Company 4.0, i.e. the process that will lead to an increasingly automated and interconnected industrial production. In order for our country to be prepared for this step, it is vital that young people can bring to the world of work the knowledge acquired during the years of their formation. The Note also reports that the VAT and excise increases planned for 2020 and 2021 will be partially neutralised, postponing the full cancellation to the next financial years. Finally, with regard to public debt, in the Note the Government states that it shares the objective of reducing the debt-to-GDP ratio, while considering that the best way to pursue it is represented by the increase in the denominator resulting from an acceleration of the economic growth favored by the maintenance of the territory and the infrastructures and the resumption of the public investments, also in human capital and innovation. An action on the numerator of the relationship through a budgetary restriction, on the other hand, could put at risk, in the government's view, economic recovery and social cohesion in a context of low nominal growth, slow acceleration of wages, slowdown of international trade, high unemployment - especially youth - and reduced investment. In the policy scenario, therefore, as a result of the measures that the Government intends to take, the Note outlines a GDP growth rate of 1.5% in 2019, 1.6% in 2020 and 1.4% in 2021. This increased growth will contribute to the improvement of debt-to-GDP indicators. In fact, the Note envisages a reduction in the debt-to-GDP ratio to 130.9% for the current year, as a result of nominal GDP growth (2.5%) above the growth in the debt stock (2.3%). The reduction of the debt-to-GDP ratio appears even more marked in the government's schedule for the three-year period 2019-2021, despite the level of the debt stock showing an increasing trend from year to year. Specifically, the Government intends to reduce public debt to 130% of GDP in 2019, 128.1% in 2020 and 126.7% in 2021. As regards the rule of debt provided for by European economic governance and transposed into national law by Law No 243 of 2012, the Note indicates that the reference value would not be achieved in the prospective version in both 2018 and 2019, with a gap between 3.1 and 4.2 percent of GDP for 2018 and between 2.4 and 3.9 percent for 2019, depending on whether the trend scenario or the policy scenario is considered. However, the Government points out that the relevant factors that characterize the current economic situation will necessarily be taken into account by the European Commission in assessing compliance with the rule. Following the lack of validation, by the Parliamentary Bureau of the budget, of the Update Note to the Document of Economics and Finance (NADEF), and pursuant to article 18, paragraph 3, of law n. 243 of 2012, the Minister of Economy and Finance returned to the hearing on September 10 to demonstrate and argue his position, and that of the Government, regarding the maneuver, reaffirming that the reactions of the financial markets appear unjustified in a context characterized by solid fundamentals of the Italian economy and public finance. The government's budgetary policy proposal appears balanced and has cautious assumptions about the effects that measures will have on growth. The Minister also noted that, unlike the Parliamentary Budget Office (UPB), the multiplier of measures other than the decommissioning of the safeguard clause is well below the unit, and therefore compatible with the main scientific findings in this field and fully in line with that obtained from the main models in use in international institutions. With regard to the timing of the measures, in the awareness of the need to activate as soon as possible the investments and social inclusion measures envisaged for the maintenance of the economic and social fabric, the Government has interpreted the UPB's objections as a stimulus to action rather than a reason to revise its forecasts and ambitions downwards. The Minister therefore concluded with a reminder of the need for a framework of full institutional coordination, highlighting that the proposed interventions move within the instruments made available by European economic governance in order to allow member countries to better adapt their policies to the changed macroeconomic contexts. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the Update Note sets as its main objectives growth, good employment, the recovery of public and private investment, the revival of research, the promotion of key sectors of the economy (primarily advanced manufacturing, infrastructure and construction) and, above all, the fight against all forms of poverty that are increasingly affecting not only the unemployed, but also workers and pensioners. All this, of course, must be done without neglecting public finances. We believe that growth and budgetary discipline can coexist and the Update Note presents a path of deficit reduction which does not sacrifice growth but which, on the contrary, benefits from it. What will develop in the coming months will be the first budgetary manoeuvre of this Government. The improvements that will result in quality of life, performance indicators and sustainability indicators of public debt will highlight the goodness of our choices and will push us, in the coming years, to do even more for the weakest sections of the population, for young people and for the enterprise. Our opinions may differ on the choices that the government makes and on the goodness of the lines of intervention, but I believe that the debate should focus on the opportunity to make an expansive, certainly ambitious, economic policy choice, but that does not weaken the medium-term objective, re-modulate it and try to increase - by succeeding, in the policy framework - the possibility to engage the recovery, which in our opinion is the most positive element of the DEF Update Note. I am also sure that when these positive effects are manifested, the remaining uncertainties of the markets will also be wiped out and Italy will be able to present itself more forcefully and authoritatively in the European assembly, not as a problematic country, but as a founding member proposing a different model of growth and a different but responsible way of achieving the objectives for which the European Union was born. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u6	I remember that the annex to the Update Note contains the report pursuant to article 6, paragraph 5, of Law No 243 of 2012, which illustrates the update of the return plan towards the medium-term objective. Pursuant to Article 6, paragraphs 3 and 5, the resolution by which each Chamber authorizes the updating of the return plan shall be adopted by an absolute majority of the respective members. Therefore, the examination of the document will end with the approval of two separate acts of address: the first, relating to the report referred to in Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012, to be voted by an absolute majority; the second, relating to the Update Note, to be voted by a simple majority. Motions for resolutions to both documents will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u7	I have listened carefully to the report by the distinguished President, ladies and gentlemen, and I was hoping that new elements could emerge, given the series of negative judgments that have been made in recent days, but also the suggestions that came from other political forces. Unfortunately, this was not the case: the report is general, and it has not even entered into the substance of the individual sectors. I would like to reflect with the friends of the League, with whom we share many administrations. Colleagues, we have always waged battles on merit, on development: elements that are, unfortunately, absent in this text. We hope, then, to meet together to support the principles that have marked us so far. I had already spoken during the debate on the DEF to talk about a sector which, even in the report, seems to me to be neglected: agriculture, which, among other things, affects most of our workers in the territories. I have carefully read the Update Note and, for the part that concerns the agricultural sector, unfortunately, I have to say that, apart from phrases and proclamations, there is nothing concrete. There is talk - I read - of simplifying the procedures to be extended to all productive sectors; reducing bureaucratic burdens; establishing a pact for simplification in the State-Regions Conference with the indication of expected results and timing; reorganization of the Ministry; protection of the Made in Italy agri-food to combat counterfeiting and make production more sustainable. I mentioned it, because it really seems to be sentences that come out of the old memory tubular, given the inconsistency. And so we can go on: protection of geographical indications in the world and on the web and contrast to Italian sounding; territorial marketing actions and operational performance of food districts, with the creation of a special national register. I could go on for a long time, however, ladies and gentlemen, what worries me is that we are not talking about ways or times. We have also tried in the Commission to make suggestions: not only as a minority, but also as a majority, there have been suggestions on issues such as the introduction of tax reductions, the reduction of energy costs for agricultural production from the outset. Yet, all our appeals have fallen into emptiness. This situation worries us very much and does not give us hope. In this Update Note there are many proclamations and good intentions. As a famous saying says, good intentions pave the way to hell. I hope that this is not the case, neither for Italians nor for Italy, because they deserve much more and much more than what is written in this Note. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u8	He's enlisted to speak Senator Turco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u9	Mr President, members of the Government, very valuable ladies and gentlemen, the Update Note to the Economic and Finance Document that we are about to discuss and approve reflects the guidelines and strategies of that Government, defined as the change, which was legitimately elected and wanted by Italian citizens, after many years of technical governments or appointed ad personam. At this time of democratic and fruitful debate in this House, however, I believe it is useful and appropriate to deepen one of the fundamental issues from which the Government of change will not be able to ignore, namely the research and professionalism involved. The policies adopted in the last twenty years in the field of post-school training have returned us an inhospitable country towards research and its professionalism. We have a university system that, compared to that of other European countries, seems agonizing, deeply unfair and not at all attractive. It is agonizing because it is constantly definanced, undersized and getting older. In the international comparison, indeed, Italy ranks in 15th place compared to the 20 OECD countries, with spending on research and development firm at 1,32 per cent of GDP, compared to 2.36 per cent of other countries. This gap has widened over the last two decades, due to the sharp reduction in public contribution. Compared to 2010, the government contributions dedicated to the ordinary funding fund, in the period 2010-2016, decreased overall by 2%. I remember that the ordinary funding fund that finances our universities has been progressively reduced, suffering a cut of more than 800 million euros between 2009 and 2010, and then a further one, between 2014 and 2015, of about 100 million euros. In 2017, the resources allocated to this fund remained broadly constant. The same situation is with regard to staff employed in research and development, which stands at 10% of the entire workforce, against an average European value of 13%. The proportion of researchers is also significantly lower than the total number of R &amp; D staff, which is 48.3%, compared with a European average of 63.4%. Researchers in Italy are not only few, but also more and more elderly: only 5.5 percent are under the age of thirty-five, compared with 11 percent under 35 in France, 43 in Germany and 34 in Holland. In our country we enter the role of researchers on the threshold of forty years and the average age of researchers exceeds forty-six years. In addition, the current public research system generates inequalities, since it does not favour equal opportunities, both at territorial level and at the level of the professional dignity of those who work there. From a territorial point of view, Istat data on expenditure and personnel employed in research and development restore a wide and alarming gap between the regions of the Centre-North and those of the South. While the former present values of expenditure and staff almost aligned with those of Europe, the Southern Regions are far below the average of the main industrialized countries. The system that we inherit, therefore, saves a few poles of excellence at the Centre-North, putting into crisis the majority of universities and research institutions in the South, with the risk of depriving these territories and related economic ecosystems of important opportunities in terms of qualification of human capital, innovation and, more generally, socio-economic development. Added to this are the perverse effects that the current system of recruitment of teaching staff and researcher has generated over the last ten years in terms of precariousness, privileges, blocking career progressions and turnover. All this took place in a climate of deep conflict between the different university figures, now in the public domain and the subject of litigation and collective actions to protect constitutionally denied rights. Emblematic is, in this sense, the position of university researchers: on 1 January 2018 researchers in staff at Italian universities are 19,277; of these 13,900 are researchers without a time limit and 2,322 are privileged precarious researchers. The outlined picture highlights a country that is not at all attractive not only for Italian researchers, but also for foreign researchers, who evidently consider other European contexts more advantageous and stimulating. The research system therefore, given the situation in which it is located and given the strategic importance it has for the growth and competitiveness of the country, needs a strategic recovery plan that addresses in a unified way the different problems that currently characterize it and hinder its development prospects. These are the conditions necessary not to lose and attract that human capital necessary to support and enhance the technological innovation indispensable for achieving the desired goals of economic growth. There can be no real economic, social and cultural change without an adequate research system. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u10	Senator Durnwalder is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u11	Mr President, I have read the update note to the DEF very carefully and with great interest, and I have also seen so many Members speaking today who will analyse in detail the economic and financial aspects of the document. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to the special autonomy which is not included in the document. This is a matter of concern to us. The document talks about constitutional reforms with the proposed referendum, about the reduction of parliamentarians, about the abolition of the CNEL or about differentiated autonomy, referred to in Article 116 (3) of the Constitution, but not even half a word is spent on special autonomy. I understand that for this document it is not the main aspect and, therefore, it is not decisive in this respect, but it is not acceptable for us that special autonomy should not be treated and left aside. As a representative of the special autonomy of linguistic minorities, I hope that the measures that follow this Update Note will give proper attention to our specificity. The Update Note talks about constitutional reform, but there is not a single mention of the protection and enhancement of the autonomy. The same was true of the government contract and the first speech that President Conte made in this House. They have so far been lacking, and it is right that there should be that protection and safeguard enshrined in constitutional principles. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ferrero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u12	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Update Note to the DEF is the first real act of economic planning and political direction of this Government. In the last few days, independent bodies have been held in the Budget Committee of which I am a member and are responsible for carrying out analyses and audits of the government's macroeconomic and public finance forecasts and for assessing compliance with national and European budgetary rules. The game was played on complex statistical calculations and econometric models that, in most cases, invited caution or expressed concerns. In fact, we have been coming from difficult years, from repressive maneuvers, from that austerity in which we crashed in 2011 and from which we have not managed to rise again despite the positive international trend of the last two years, which in Italy has manifested itself only with a very shy recovery. But let's go back to the sacrifice required of the Italians. We all remember the tears of Minister Fornero, unfortunately my fellow countryman, who sent so many fellow citizens who had the expectation of finally enjoying the well-deserved rest after years of work, and I quote the most striking example. Those restrictive maneuvers, however, have done nothing but cause a contraction of the Italian economy: the most important companies have fled from Italy and those who have remained have met hard times. What was the result of all this sacrifice? It was a real GDP that, after years of negative sign, began timidly to grow exclusively driven by the positive international economic situation. Government debt has risen to 132 percent of GDP. It is then clear that, although the calculations are complex, something has not gone the right way, because here we are talking about forecasts, possible scenarios. Counts about the future are not made with certain numbers, but with numbers that have a certain level of confidence and behind the numbers there are hypotheses. It is therefore clear that the rigidity of econometric models has led to erroneous predictions, but probably they are obsolete hypotheses. The majority of Italians noticed it on their skin and chose to change the register. This is the mission of the current Government. The indications contained in the DEF reflect what the Italians expect from this Government and this parliamentary majority. The maneuver announced by the DEF will finally be expansive and will finally act on the denominator of that fateful debt-to-GDP ratio for which Europe judges us so much. It's obvious: you have to be realistic that this is a beginning. Hundreds of thousands of workers blocked by Fornero will finally be able to choose to retire; the flat tax will initially affect VAT matches and small businesses; the incentive will also be granted to companies subject to IRES investing in the future. Then there are the unlocking of public investment, the simplification of procedures, all expansionary measures. However, I am not extending myself after Mr Dell'Olio's extensive report. Yesterday in the general debate in the Commission - which I very much appreciate - admission was widespread, if I have not misunderstood the opposition too: the strategy must certainly be changed and, therefore, action must be taken on the denominator of the debt-to-GDP ratio. Well, we all know that this change of course will be under the magnifying glass of Europe; the European governments are watching us, as are the peoples of Europe. The risk of market turbulence does not frighten us. I'm of the idea that you don't command a spread-battering people. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u13	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u14	Mr President, the Update Note to the DEF 2018 confirms all the most popular commitments made in the election campaign by the 5 Star Movement and League, but it is clear that for health in the first yellow-green budget law the three-year 2019-2021 marks the pitch darkness. Only reasonable certainty is that the additional billion allocated by the previous Executive will remain unharmed, with public funding for 2019 of 114.396 billion. After a decade of cuts and de-financing to health, a Government of change was expected to put health at the heart of the public and political agenda. Instead, despite the increase in public debt, health protection, research, development and innovation have no right to citizenship in the year-end maneuver. This paper is daring to increase GDP by 3.1 percent in 2019, by 3.5 percent in 2020 - and we all hope so - but predicts the GDP/health expenditure ratio at 6.4. I would like to point out that, according to the World Health Organization, when this ratio falls below 6.5%, the provision of services is seriously at risk. In any case, all this is clearly in contrast to the words spoken by Prime Minister Conte when he came to ask the Chambers for trust, saying that health care was the top priority of the government program: it doesn't seem to me. Minister Grillo said on 2 August that they would open the taps: it seems to me that the taps were opened for something else and certainly not for health care. I would also like to avoid being told - as happened yesterday in the Commission - that the income of citizenship will increase public health, because citizens will be able to eat more protein. I wondered, then, if the vegans - the poor ones - will all get sick. We'll see. Speaking of the problems, the points of the programme are absolutely acceptable: we all agree with the points identified. Too bad it seems to me like a dream book, as unfortunately we have seen in recent years: so many good intentions without a euro of funding and therefore inapplicable. I am referring, for example, to the rules on family caregivers, after us and the thousand other provisions of the previous government, but patience. There are great contradictions in the statements of the Economic and Financial Document on Health. For example, we want to improve the guarantee of the delivery of the essential levels of assistance (LEA) in a uniform way throughout the national territory: we totally agree, but the government has already confirmed the green light to differentiated regionalism, which - as we all know - will increase inequalities. It is proposed to increase the focus on health promotion and prevention without providing for related actions, nor resources; it is not considered the renewal of technologies and the training of staff. Regarding the renewal of staff contracts, it has been calculated that only medical and paramedical staff will cost about one billion, i.e. renewal would already take away all resources. It refers to improving governance, but I have not seen a word about cutting waste and we know that right there you could start at a time when there is little money. The minister should try to understand why a citizen, if he reserves an ultrasound for the national health system, pays the superticket - something hateful that they said they wanted to abolish, but that in reality there is and of which abolition is not talked about, because it would cost between 500 million and billion euros - while, if he addresses an unaccredited private center, he does the ultrasound in two days and pays less than the superticket. Maybe they have better equipment? Perhaps there is better respect and use of human resources? Well, I'm not the Minister. Let's not talk about payback: there's no counting and companies need to know what to set aside but there's no talking about it. With regard to promotion, innovation and research, we will see how we can implement the electronic health file. As for the monitoring of LEAs, I would like it to be considered - for example - that in many regions in Italy prenatal screening does not yet exist; I would like to take the example of audiological centers to identify the deafness of children, who will be present in five or six regions. According to the Court of Auditors, 32 billion would be needed for investment in the health building stock. Therefore, there is little clarity and limited numbers; no reference to policies on family, birth, disability; no word about caregivers; no reference is made to the fund for innovative medicines, nor to cover. On the closed number the Minister changed his mind again: of course it can be removed, but an investment must be realized, because students must be able to have classrooms that are not there. So, before we talk, it's better to do the math, and even before we file phony accounts. There is a total lack of an approach to saving the National Health System; there are few innovative actions; there is no programme; there is no real programming for the next five years and there is no investment. I am very concerned, but it seems to be clear that health care at the moment is not a priority either for Di Maio or for Salvini. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators, representatives of the Government, at last in this House, after the announcements, after the hearings and clashes on hypothetical macroeconomic scenarios, after the Commission, where I tried to explain, with a great deal of detail, what I will now say in a few minutes. Finally, the House, for reasons of fact. And the facts are that Italy now loses weight, credibility, wealth. The facts, which are not beautiful, but are objective, speak to us of a spread that grows and of sales to rain on the Stock Exchange, which are eating, already before, the so-called maneuver of the people. Since 26 September, when the deficit was announced at 2.4 percent - when on 17 September the Minister Tria had guaranteed 1.6% - the BTP yield curve has returned to 2013 levels; the cost of policies against the default risk of Italy has returned to the time of May, at the time of the crisis (when it was not understood what the future of the country would be); the cost of words - copyright is not mine, but it is the president of the ECB Draghi - has been equal to the increase of 2 billion euros of interest expenditure, as is recognized in NADEF itself. I could talk about a lot of things. I don't want to talk about citizenship income; I'm just saying that they don't come back, because 780 euros for 6.5 million people is 50.7 billion and not 10 billion. Of course, this makes us think that a number of limits will be inserted that will cause the matter itself to be cancelled. I do not want to mention Mr Di Maio, who is talking about a health card against immoral expenses, and undersecretary Castelli, who says that we will use the ATM or an app; but if anyone goes to Unieuro, we send him the Finance Guard. But if you don't have your phone, how can you use the app? Let's forget about these things. I am not talking about the citizen's pension of EUR 780, which may seem a good thing, for disabled civilians, social pensioners, integrated to a minimum; it concerns categories of people who have never paid contributions and that means that it will all be borne by the new generations. I am not talking about flat tax - as we have been told - because it is an oxymoron par excellence. If it is flat, in fact, it is only one; here it is only a question of extending the relief to VAT consignments, from 30,000 to 65,000 euros, and this will mean that, in order to finance it for one and a half million self-employed people, there is a risk of charging more to 3,2 million professionals and small entrepreneurs. But I want to talk about the so-called tax peace. It is okay that it is part of the so-called 12 connected ones; 12 connected ones had never been seen and we also know that the instrument of the connected one - there is a nice article today on "Il Giornale" that reminds us - allows to postpone the entry into force and the effects of these measures. I don't mean that Vice President Di Maio speaks of a balance reasoning and excerpt for the fathers of the family who are vexed by the Revenue Agency, while Vice President Salvini speaks of a tombal pardon, first up to 5 million, then up to a million, and now up to half a million, which goes to remove sanctions, interest of lateness and taxes due and unpaid. I mean, fiscal peace is a grave pardon. Today Paolo Tiramani said it clearly and in a very direct way: with the tax forgiveness tomb would come 35 billion. Sadly, he's right about the tomb tax allowance, but not about the $35 billion. What, though, is the problem? The problem is that the announced effect is affecting tax revenue from combating evasion significantly, for a figure of nearly 4 billion. The party of the "I don't pay" has automatically increased, so much forgiveness comes; the tax system is freezing and the efforts of recent years to combat tax evasion are likely to be thwarted. I remind myself that in 2014, certified by the Government, it was 112 billion, in 2015 107 billion and in 2017 91 billion. So, with this effect we are announcing that we are not only canceling past work, but also producing direct damage to tax revenue. Those who joined the first dismantling before 15 May and paid the first instalment on 31 July what interest do they now have to continue paying the others? They have the interest that have obtained the blocking of foreclosures and jaws and the possibility of obtaining the DURC; But that means 600 million less revenue. Those who in May 2015 had a folder, but decided not to participate in the scraping, given the air of the pardon, gave up the 35% discount. The regular taxpayers, who had received letters and had therefore started a conversation with the Revenue Agency, found themselves in a position not to pay; and this is another billion less. The same applies to those who had established and notified collection records from 1 October 2017. This makes almost 3.6 billion euros. I would remind you that the same technical report to the measure even provides for a zeroing, for next year, of the ordinary collection of records, because of the effect of tax peace. What does that mean? When we introduced the voluntary instrument, we removed sanctions and interests, but we made the citizens pay for everything they had to do. In addition, we re-emerged money that had been hidden and that was taxation taxes. In this case, however, we also go to cancel the revenue for the future. A one-off transaction will create immediate damage of around EUR 4 billion and will have effects for the future. These are the facts that have already begun to harm the country, a country that you are breaking down, making basically two mistakes: yesterday, in making unrealizable electoral promises, knowing that they were such, and today pretending to believe us to mask an electoral campaign that lasts until the European elections, to turn them into a judgment of God, a real ordalia, where those who risk not surviving are not you, but the country. And this - look - Italy just doesn't deserve it. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u17	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, looking at all the documents presented and taking into account the debate held in the European Union's Political Commission, I have become convinced that we are simply talking about a maneuver in debt - all in debt - for current expenditure. This is the juice. If I had to express myself in a synthetic way, but understandable to the citizens, it is as if a family already very heavily indebted came back from those who have already lent it money - brothers, friends, sisters - to ask for more, but not to make investments, but to change the son's iPad or - in fact - for current expenses. You can imagine how the already lender brother-in-law would react: I don't think he would jump with joy. In the European family, the others obviously look at us, as we have looked at others. In my opinion, we are talking about the prefiguration of a maneuver that increases the debt for current expenditure. There is not even an investment scent - if I look at the data of the Bank of Italy, we are talking about 0.2 percent - with sovereign contempt even for mathematics and arithmetic. In addition, all of this gave a sense of insecurity and from this started the spread. Colleagues - and I am addressing in particular the previous speaker - there is no conspiracy regarding the spread, let alone the pluto-Judaic-Masonic, which is being brought into play. Interest on Italian public debt increases not because someone decides so in who knows which place, but because millions of investors and savers, Italian and foreign, believe that our debt has become risky. It's very simple. You would, too. The spread is a very concrete thing, it is not in the bank arcanes who know where: it is a very concrete thing, that affects all citizens and harms the poorest people. We can also say that we have solved the problem of poverty, but that is not the case, because we are simply feeding it. In fact, the spread increases the cost of public debt and, therefore, increases taxes for citizens: more equal spreads plus taxes; decreases the value of held government bonds and therefore the value of investments: more equal spreads less savings; increases the interest rate on loans and loans and the availability of credit for businesses and households: more equal spreads less credit; increases the cost of investments for companies managing public services, water, gas, electricity, with increased bills: more equal spreads more increases. In short, no citizen gains anything; almost everyone loses us; some, the most fragile, lose us very much. This is what we have in front of us and the unhealthy contempt of figures with millantate growths to 3%, to which frankly I do not know who pretends to believe because it is really hard, I believe it gives the situation and the complete picture. This - in my opinion - is a maneuver that will lead you - and we with you - against a wall, and not because there are internal enemies or conspiracy of the Oltralp, but because we are, indeed you are hurting us alone. Remember that the people, the 17 million who voted for you, are not the Italian people as a whole. And remember that sovereignty belongs to the people, but the second paragraph of Article 1 of the Constitution says that the people exercise it within the limits of the laws. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Carbone]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Damiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u20	Mr President, members of the Government, fellow senators, we have been easy prophets to predict a few weeks ago the unanimous cuts in the financial maneuver that the Government intends to launch today in this House. The Bank of Italy, the Court of Auditors, the ISTAT, the Parliamentary Budget Office rejected with conviction the proposed measures, considering them to be based on excessively optimistic forecasts that do not find any concrete basis, in the light of the current economic situation of our country, but also of the international economic situation. In my speech I would like to highlight an important aspect, a concept of responsibility that today is completely absent from the programs and I would say from the attitudes of those who seem abducted by an untenable euphoria expressed with behaviors that are institutionally censorable, such as the celebrations from the balcony of Palazzo Chigi. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And we want to remember this because this maneuver will be remembered for the balcony of Palazzo Chigi. Only irresponsible and unacceptable discourses and attitudes, which exasperate the worst declination of populism so dear to this Government, since they suggest that every desire of the people, even crazy and absurd hypothesis but legitimated by sufficient numerical support in the ballot box, finds in this its legitimacy. They thus forget that our (fortunately) is still a representative democracy in which all citizens delegate with their vote the leadership of the country to those they think will be better able to decide in the general interest, and not in part; it is not a dictatorship of the majority that, when reached power, is concerned only to settle its electoral debts to the detriment of the entire community. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Unfortunately, we have already said several times in this House that much of the maneuver is affected by this very approach, in order to claim that we are even willing to risk the risk of public finances, in order to continue to mask the bluff in which unfortunately many voters have been led to believe. In order to make it clear how useless the government's choices are, but how damaging they are, I would just like to quote a small numerical example. I didn't want to talk about numbers today, but it has to be a clear example. In March, before the elections, the famous differential between BTP and Bund was 130 basis points, while in the last few days we have reached over 300. Every 100 points of spread increase cost us 1.8 billion interest this year, 4.5 billion for the second year and 6.6 billion for the third year. This means that interest expenditure will increase enormously for our country. The famous difference, which you celebrate today, of increasing public debt will be paid by Italian citizens with the interests that will have to pay from this differential; therefore, everything will be eaten by the same debt. Therefore, a maneuver of the people, yes, but in the sense that it will be paid entirely by the people, especially by those who work and produce, by all those who will go to the bank in the coming months to turn on the loans, to ask for a loan that will then have to repay with higher interest, and by all those taxpayers who will no longer be able to deduct from income medical, university and passive interest. If I were to synthesize with one image, this is a maneuver that with one hand gives one electoral tip and with the other, secretly, subtracts the portfolio from the Italians [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] But when we come to the specifics of our proposals - in this House we are making constructive opposition and we are not doing it, regardless of the role of opposition - we have asked and we want today, with our resolution, to adopt concrete proposals. We call for the adoption of criteria for the reduction of selective public expenditure. We ask that the savings of Italians be protected and that forms of taxation be envisaged. We call for the tax system to be reformed by reducing the tax burden on households and businesses, and for measures to be taken to achieve the objective of growth. We call, above all, for more jobs to be created by introducing the detaxation and decontribution for six years of the new recruitment of young people. But above all, we call for a major strategic plan for the South to be put in place so that the South can finally align itself with the European and national standards, based on initiative and merit. The plan must be implemented through measures extending infrastructure and industrial development. On the other hand, unfortunately, we have to hear from Minister Tria that citizenship income is the measure for the South. They are shameful words, which the South absolutely does not deserve, which condemn him to the role of perennial assisted and which, unfortunately, do not recognize the enormous potential that the South could put in place if supported by appropriate and appropriate interventions1 [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Southern citizens are calling for work and structural interventions. Young people and families claim the right to plan their future in their own land with serenity, thanks to a state that supports them creating the best conditions for these prospects to become reality. To accept only that part of the electorate who asks to find a solution to the discomfort in the illusory promises of citizenship income is humiliating to the South, which works, produces and deserves a decent development. We ask the Government to exit the dead end of the perennial electoral campaign; to remove the blinkers of its own self-referentiality; to look with intellectual honesty at the complexity of the problems and situations to be faced and resolved; to pay attention to the indications of the operators in the sector and the authorities who, unanimous, express serious concern about the negative effects of the choices that are being made. Let us abandon the logic of confrontation in favour of confrontation and synthesis, the result of a constructive dialectic for the good of the whole country. Forza Italia asks the Government to have respect for the dramatic situation of the country, with a heavy youth unemployment that today is aggravated even more by the famous decree dignity. He calls for respect for Italians, who live difficult days and who need concrete solutions and not squalid theater or sad parties a balcony accompanied by surreal statements. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lannotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u22	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the people's manoeuvre in the DEF Update Note shows an expenditure of 36.7 billion in 2019, of which 21.5 million were distributed with sacrosanct measures, never previously conceived, equal to 9 billion on the income and pension of citizenship; one billion in order to strengthen employment centres; 7 to overcome the wretched Fornero law with 100; 1.7 for flat tax; one billion for recruitment in the Forces of the Order and 1.5 billion euros from the dormant funds to compensate the scams by the banks after the expropriation of the savings, called bail in, which has placed on thousands of families managing fraudulent savings and offered a safe conduct to the bankers. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] We remember them Zonin and the others, who put people in the middle of a street and also had a million-dollar coupon. And we remember immunity to the vigilante authorities, Consob and Bankitalia. This is a clear reversal of the trend compared to previous manoeuvres in favour of the usual known. In particular since 2013, governments and Parliament have legislated to undermine economic and social rights, with dozens of measures in favour of banks, in the wake of a neoliberal totalitarian doctrine, introduced in the United States by Milton Friedman, which replaced popular sovereignty with market sovereignty, the prevalence of the economy over law and Constitutions, relegating men to goods, and remember the jobs act [[Applause from the M5S Group]] ; an ideology that has corrupted society, favored inequalities, privatised common goods and led the economy into one of the most serious recessions in history. Millions of Italians, impoverished by these economic policies of faithful governments performing the European Troika and Cleptocracy programs on fiscal compact, balanced budget, with old people who cannot cure and live on their own skin conditions of suffering and serious social distress, will be able to have income and citizenship pensions, one of the most expensive measures to Movimento 5 Stars [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , born on the day of St. Francis, which represents - colleagues - not a gift to the idlers, but a necessity present in all European countries, because it is functional to that much praised market economy that, after the destruction of jobs by computer science, robotics and artificial intelligence, distributes incomes to feed consumption and the orderly economic cycle. The covers are there, just read the DEF. We inherited the famous safeguard clauses that triggered the automatic increase of VAT to 12.5 billion euros in 2019, introduced for the first time in 2011 by the Berlusconi Government, along with that boulder of public debt - 38,000 euros on each of the 60 million inhabitants [[Applause from the M5S Group]] - that has been increased in the last legislature of 261 billion, 4.3 billion euros per month [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , 132 million per day, 2 million per hour, 368 euro per second. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I respect the others, Mr President, and I ask you to respect me too. In the United States of the populist Trump, whose untraditional expansive economic measures have restarted growth and a period of prosperity never seen before in the short time of his government, the fifth amendment is invoked to prevent any responses from being used against citizens objects of judicial investigation. We, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like to invoke Article 1 of that Constitution which we have strenuously defended in the referendum of 4 December 2016, with the Republic based on labour and sovereignty that belongs to the peoples, not to the markets. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , to the globalism of poverty, to the multinationals, to dictatorial neoliberalism, to the bankers of business, troika, Bankitalia, rating agencies and brigadeists of criminal finance, who try to make universal suffrage useless. This expansionary maneuver with a deficit of 2.4 percent in 2019 does not put its hands in the pockets of the citizens, but gives them decades of malt and hope to the young talents forced to expatriate to return to Italy, opposed by the system of power of the manutengoli and by a suicidal Europe, which is sinking drinking cognac and champagne and reminds me of the Titanic, which sank while the orchestrals played the violin. Mr President, we will reaffirm the primacy of politics and elected governments over dictatorial technocracies and neoliberalism, which humiliate the dignity of the work of women and men, in order to achieve profits on the skin of free peoples who refuse to be enslaved, as in Greece, by austerity policies and by the Troika's programmes. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] We will resist the attacks, in order to continue to defend the rights of the poor people expropriated and plundered by subaltern governments to the Troika and to Europe drunk, and certainly not the interests of the bankers. The Republic is based on Article 1 and not on the spread. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u23	Senator D'Arienzo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u24	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, there are many issues that I have heard just now, because I believe that the ideology that is spreading with full hands in the country will lead us to the disaster and impoverishment of those people who would like to be encouraged. Instead, I focus mainly on the infrastructure part of the DEF. Meanwhile a certainty before Italy and it is good that it knows it: in the DEF are expected investments in the next fifteen years for 150 billion euros, of which 100 immediately available, already present in the coffers of the State. Well there is no extra euro on the part of the Government in the investment program because what is included in the DEF are nothing more than the program and interventions already foreseen by the previous Government. This makes us say that at the moment, if not for the blocking of some works, on which I will return shortly, you have not foreseen anything for the development of the country, indeed, for 2019 you anticipate a reduction of the public investments pairs to 0.2 percent. It is good that this in our country is known. However, in the DEF there are other disasters, such as putting your hands in a certain way on the procurement code. It's one thing to combine speed with legality, another thing is what you're promising: a deregulation of the procurement code that could lead to the return of bad business to public administration. Dr. Cantone was very clear in his hearing in the Commission on public works. He said that it is not true that infrastructure, on the contrary, procurement is blocked because of the procurement code, making concrete examples that demonstrate the objective difficulties of the public administrations of our country to do that type of activity. I would like to focus on one of the features contained in the DEF: the review of some important infrastructures that are decisive for the development of the North of the country, in particular, the Gronda motorway of Genoa, the Pedemontana Lombarda, the Third pass and the high-speed connection between Brescia and Padua and Turin-Lion. This review, which has already been carried out in particular for Brescia-Padova, has already resulted in a saving of around EUR 500 million in 2015. However, the delays that you will cause due to the review that you are making will bring to your knees the economy of much of the North of our country. I am thinking in particular not only of Brescia-Verona and, therefore, of the connection to Germany and Northern Europe through the Brenner, but of the laughable result that you will obtain with regard to the Third Pass and the Gronda motorway of Genoa. Those who called the collapse of the bridge a fairy tale are succeeding in blocking the city of Genoa and its development for the next few years. All of Genoa, as known, except a small minority, wants the Gronda highway. This review will cause many damages and I say it in particular, for all the works I have mentioned, to the governors Toti, Fontana and Zaia who in these days and months have "expertized" to say that it was not true. It is the first time that in an official act of the Government the blockade and review of these works are put on paper. I address these three governors because they strike a blow: it is in their regions that much of our country's gross domestic product is created. Blocking these infrastructures means damaging Italy. I could talk for a long time about rail transport, especially regional transport, but I will finish, Mr President, given the timing. Toninelli, who is the Minister, in conclusion I would like to say that instead of worrying about the tunnels that do not exist (reachable the thin figure on the Brenner tunnel) should worry about the sure tunnel that is determining by its planning to our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u25	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ferro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I listened just now to Senator Lannotti of Movimento 5 Stars and I was wondering which real country you frequent because all the optimistic data that he sees in the real country I do not see them. These maneuvers that have been, with such caution, announced by the Government do not lay down in favor of optimism. They say not so much neighboring subjects but neutral, technical subjects. There was the no of the Bank of Italy, the no of the Court of Auditors, the no of the Parliamentary Budget Office and you stubbornly move forward. Current expenditure does not create growth in gross domestic product: it is a basic rule for high school accountants. You are making a great deal - and I will just focus on this - on public investment, which increases by about 3.5 billion in 2019, 5 billion in 2020 and 6.5 billion in 2021. These figures, in your opinion, increase GDP by 0.2% per year. I wonder, and Mr Tria himself at the hearing of the Joint Commissions said this: are these edittal statements? In fact, then, the infrastructure and structures of the local authorities - as he said - are incapable of putting them into practice, either because of an absurd bureaucracy, or because of a system of very slow administrative justice. They are investments that remain on paper and as the historical data confirms. Now, talking about public investment and also urging all state companies to make investments without clear and clear programming, in my opinion it denotes a very dangerous lightness of approach, as Senator D'Arienzo recalled earlier. If your public investments are those so stated by Minister Toninelli it is better that we stop immediately because they are very dangerous. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator D'Arienzo]] They do not advocate territorial development. He recalled the Brenner tunnel, the high speed Brescia-Verona, the high speed Lyon-Turin, all projects that must restart quickly to allow our country to recover that infrastructural gap that places us among the last countries at European level. These are optimistic scenarios that you have designed and are dangerous scenarios. I leave these remarks to the record, Mr President. I just wanted to add a recommendation: we hope a lot in the mediating action of Minister Tria and Minister Savona, the only Ministers who give us some confidence, to bring to order a situation that seems very messy, confused and only populist. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u27	Senator Zuliani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. He is a mayor who speaks to you, a mayor of the League, a mayor of a small municipality - Concamarise in the province of Verona - a mayor of the territory of Lower Veronese, a simple administrator who, like many others, had to use a thousand difficulties, every energy at his disposal to honor his community, earning the title of handyman. I'm not the only one doing this. Every day many mayors are obliged to do so, sharing with their fellow citizens moments of difficulty and joy. I am here to play the role of parliamentarians, not to have a title, not to dictate my own political line or that of the party to which I belong, but to bring in this institution, in the Senate of the Republic, the voice and political opinions of the people of the territories. These are people in these years deprived of the hope of a better future, of trust in the political class; communities debased of imposed ones arrived from above, especially with continuous arrivals of the so-called asylum seekers, often on territories gripped by the crisis, where the economic enterprise of the reception became the symbol of the nation that perished: an economic business perpetrated against the Italians in difficulty, moreover with the mockery to hear repeated that the decrease of the migratory flow would have the effect of increasing the debt, that the future labour deriving from the landings was indispensable, for a strong necessity of young workers who pay the contributions. But now something has changed. For those who live there - like us in the League - there is no day when, meeting so many people, we do not receive words of encouragement, aware of the continuous cannons of a certain political-economic class. People who, as they themselves claim, have come back to hope: Don't give up, don't forget, you have all our trust and esteem. These are their words: Tell Salvini not to go back one centimeter. We're all with him. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] People touched alive, abused in the bank savings of a lifetime by a ruthless, cruel political-economic class. We of the League are here to put the Italians at the center with this economic-financial maneuver of common sense that the Government has calibrated with prudential and not optimistic parameters, while not hiding any better results. We at the League are here to take full responsibility for this. Time will tell yours. As patient farmers we are sowing, working with commitment, passion, courage, together with this Government, thanks to which, the Italians who are patiently waiting, can, in the near future, reap the fruits. The revolution of common sense is under way, with the League, with Salvini. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Patriarch. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u30	Mr President, Mr Lannotti is right: I have never seen such a thing; I have never seen such a perfect storm. It takes a great deal of effort to collect five negative judgments, six, perhaps more: the ECB, the Monetary Fund, the Court of Auditors, Bankitalia, the European Commission; and finally, the Parliamentary Bureau of the Budget: for Di Maio - this is the big news - all potential candidates for the next elections. It will be a really great game; a poker and six cards this time losers, alas; a poker that can bring the country to ruin, that will blow the bank at the expense of the most fragile people. The DEF - all the colleagues here know - announces the budget law, the one with the numbers, which are not the numbers, as Di Maio and Salvini constantly declare, because we talk about the resources of the people, the word you abused, the word you constantly strangled; but the people are made of people, faces: they are workers, families, entrepreneurs, young people. Look! You want to put your hands in the pockets of the people, on their savings, and you're already doing it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] But how do you write a dream book that violates the Constitutional Charter and Article 81, Senator Lannutti? Strangled and continuously provoked the guarantee bodies and you have a vague idea of the democratic structure of this country and its burdens and counterweights. How can a document be so generic, moreover with objectives that cannot be reached? I've never heard of a Minister of the Republic declaring poverty eradication, Senator Lannutti. Minister Di Maio, in a delirium of omnipotence, did not recall that even Our Lord, who would also have the authority to say so in his years of permanence on this earth, dared to say that he would wipe out poverty. Yet, a Minister of the Republic managed to say this in such a delirium of omnipotence: to erase poverty. You see, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, good policy needs some fundamentals: a framework of values, such as our Constitutional Charter, which you continue to trample on; a vision of the future and - I must tell you this - the principle of reality, which means dealing with the resources you have, few or many, even to be indebted, provided that the debt is sustainable and made for long-term investments, but to which no mention is made in the DEF. As for the income of citizenship, the flag of Movimento 5 Stars, your project relies on employment centers, which - alas - are inadequate to bear such a load; and so, everything risks turning into an incredible avalanche of welfare donations. Very dear words have disappeared to us and to those who are daily interested in poverty: I speak of "taking charge," "reciprocity", "educational poverty", "child poverty", "citizen's pact", "territory", "networks" and local authorities. The mayors have disappeared not only from the stands in recent days, but also from your plans. Even the poor have disappeared, who are not to be treated as beneficiaries, but must be called to be the protagonists of their story and their ability to get out of poverty. Senator Lannotti, you are actually instituting a new form of aid: wrong and wrong at the expense of the poor, alas, other than erase poverty; you are putting up not an income of citizenship, but of subjection, at the disposal of the prince on duty, that is yourself. The word dignity, like that of citizenship, to you very dear, deserves more respect: we with the income of inclusion (REI) had introduced an innovative tool, in step with the best international experiences, but you did not have the patience to understand or to make the point. And again, on the Social Fund, on the non-self-sufficiency fund and on support for independent living, you're gonna give us figures, aren't you? On these issues, in the previous legislature you fought us, constantly declaring that those funds were insufficient: well, we expect that in the budget law they will be largely refinanced. What about families, constantly evoke these days? Will you give us certain data, lists and numbers about motherhood, facilitated taxation, family quotient, after us, family caregiver? Will you give us some data and some numbers, as the ministers of Maio and Salvini often declare? Because politics is played on the numbers and it is serious, not on the high-sounding statements like those we have heard today from Senator Lannutti, which are of little or even no use. We measure ourselves with the principle of reality and with numbers. In conclusion, we have been on these issues for five years and we are still there. The PD handed over and deposited here to the Senate and also to the House draft laws that entered into the merits of these issues. We will not give you discounts not only because we want to stand in opposition and we like to do so (and we will go back to governing), but because we care about our country, which we love and do not want scrolls down. We will fight your style of cutting short, to which the Ministers are accustomed, with a simple, cynical and bullying language, that wants to poison the hearts of the Italians, preventing them from thinking about good politics. Between your saying and doing and between your saying and thinking there is no sea, alas: there is nothing at all! [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u31	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are being asked to express ourselves and we are debating and reasoning about a eminently political document, which is the authorisation to pass on expenditure forecasts (which was 0.8%). It is, therefore, a general policy document, eminently political and necessarily general. This document tells us of the Government's intentions, which came out of the ballot box with regard to the budget, which will come in the next few days and which will cover the Italian accounts for the next three years. It contains a number of intentions and, therefore, we are currently exercising ourselves in a legitimate process of intent. We obviously need to talk about this. I would like to keep to the subject, not to anticipate the reasoning we will make on the basis of the numbers that will be presented to us in a few days and not to exploit the intentions, but simply to analyze, evaluate them, sharing them or not. I'm a member of the 12th The Commission and the health issue (which I have been committing for several years to the truth, even if I am not a doctor, because I believe that policy must be taken care of citizens, starting with their health) is being attacked by the document before our examination or, better, it is anticipated that one of the two macro-problems that is currently affecting Italian health is being attacked. I am referring to macro-problems, not problems that undermine their functioning, but problems that have the possibility of collapsing the system within them. The first of the problems, which alas is not touched is the sudden ageing of the population. The demographic trend is absolutely worrying and has been analysed by my party. The Italian birthday was in the coalition program of the center-right. The document before us, however, contains nothing - and this is a serious shortcoming - but anticipates that it wants to deal with the other staff problem. It proposes to redefine the needs and access of doctors to the National Health Service through the approval of a regulatory intervention by 2018 - which ends in three months - and by completing the recruitment and stabilisation processes by increasing the grants for the training of young doctors. Colleagues, this is a very serious problem and the fact that a government takes care of it, referring to the image of the famous glass half full or half empty, I consider it in positive terms. On this subject, moreover, the famous 100 quota, to which we are not at all opposed, is involved. We wait to see it declined positively, but if 100 goes in port it has been estimated that approximately 25 percent of the current health staff in service, in a short period of time, will go in quiescence. With regard to these serious concerns, this document has positive intentions which give me hope. Colleagues, I believe that at the time of the opening of the debate on the closed number, for example, and on the admission tests to the medical faculty, a serious operation is being carried out; let us positively decline it in the next few days to understand how to widen the closed number. In fact, it is not that the closed number can be abolished so, from today to tomorrow, tout court, as unfortunately I hear surface shaking somewhere: we cannot do Italian, so first we exaggerate on one side and then on the other. The closed number must be reprogrammed; important resources must be given back to universities; structures must be restored to train more doctors; the parameters of selection of entry tests must be changed. The problem is not the entry test; the problem is the closed number and the numbers. The entrance test is a means of measuring the closed number, so it's a problem in the problem. Reforming the closed number system also means reviewing the whole process of entry tests. On this we are waiting to read the draft budget law which the majority will present to us by 20 October. However, we cannot fail to say today that we consider it positive that we opened the debate on what seemed to be an untouchable subject, yet another totem around which we had been dancing for years, without having to discuss it. Therefore, as far as the contents of the Note are concerned, with regard to public health aspects, we believe that interesting topics have been opened up. A second very interesting topic that is opened with this document concerns the technical table of work on medicines and medical devices having as a priority the task of finding suitable solutions and methods of recalculating the payback. Colleagues, it is not as many of you as you are concerned with health, but I assure you that these two arguments, if they were to be included in the draft budget law that will be presented to us, would be an important step forward in the legislative work that accompanies these documents. This cannot but lead us to take a different attitude towards the Economic and Financial Document which, at this time, clearly - but will say it much better than I myself, Mr Marsilio, who will speak in explanations of vote - cannot but be negative and censured, partly because the whole other part of the Note does not concern health - which I do not deal with in my speech - has shadow margins which considerably and in a worrying way exceed all the glimpses of light which, on the other hand, are outlined by the colleagues of the majority. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u33	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alfonso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u34	Mr President, I want to express a real awareness, in the sense that I would have liked to give this instrument, known as the DEF Update Note, all the attention it deserves. I believe this instrument, but I do not believe how it has been presented, worked and rendered unnecessarily resistant to all the criticisms that have been made. I am convinced that the Commission is doing better work, just as I am convinced that we must do better work in this House. However, I was disappointed by the conduct taken in the Commission, but now I also see the lack of interest in this House, as I have also seen the lack of interest in the censorship of impartial, international and national third-party bodies. We know that the DEF Update Note is not the liturgy of a typography of the State. The Update Note to the DEF gives rise to analyses and prefigurations, sets objectives and organises the next legislation. There has been a great deal of emphasis on measures to combat poverty, digital bet and also on the instrument (which, in my opinion, almost resembles a fiscal jubilee) of fiscal pacification. Let us now try to give numbers, names and surnames to what can give rise, for example, to fiscal pacification. From the numerical point of view, the current system in 2018 has resulted in tax revenues of 505 billion euros and before social contributions we have reached 816 billion euros, while the results of the fight against evasion are equal to 10 billion euros. What will be the result of fiscal pacification? It will give rise to swelling in the first year and inconsistency, impoverishment of revenue in the following years, in addition to the load of diseducation, vertical fall of that morality that characterizes the pact between citizens and order regarding the right-duty couple. [[Applause from the PD Group]] There is a big bet on relaunching investment. In this House there is a part of previous administrative and decision-making experiences and there is a part that has come from chance, from chance. I would like to speak to those elected who have previously been administrators. There is a page of this document that I have read both in the drafting of the MEF (which allows you to download the update document) and also in the part that was written by the typography of the Senate: in the first it is on page 71, in the other it is on page 83, the address book item is "relaunch of investments". How can we argue that, as far as the relaunch of investment is concerned, alongside bureaucratic responsibilities, a political leadership authority will be set up to plan, plan and manage investments? It's the vertical fall of the right! There is no legal order, there is no political interference in the procedures. If I had read as a journalist, scholar and student outside and had not followed what happened here as to the damage to the outskirts ban, I would not have believed that I could read, understand and give rise to that meaning. In Italy there is a distinction between order and politics, statehood and politics: procedures are of the State, the majority is of politics: it is not imaginable that politics is interfering. [[Applause from the PD Group]] There is no way that the procedures can be reset and a new start will take place again! But what investments can they share with this culture of assault? Moreover, the assault on procedures has done so on EUR 1.6 billion for cities and 20 million for citizens. The multiplier for public works is five; we would have had a relapse made of employment, positive feeling, economic pervasiveness; instead you wanted a zero. On this and for this I say to you stop, reread, study, in-depth, confront, be honest culturally. This document is not a recitation, a liturgy, a work of documentary embellishment; it is a piece of the procedure on the budget and the budget of the State. That's why I say we work with more "curvature" than our intelligences. In fact, in the Commission, it was a worthless contract. Let's not have the useless contract here! Let's do this! [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u35	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u36	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the long-awaited update note to the Economic and Financial Document has arrived or perhaps not, in the sense that in the political document which has been produced of programming intended as a will to reform the financial economic system in melius there is nothing: propaganda, slogans, excess welfare, a lot of money spent badly: 37 billion, of which 22 are in deficit. We start from the income of citizenship, which has been realized, as it seems evident, in the form of pure measure of welfare in rain, indeed in drizzle, that useless drizzle that does not grow anything. It thus becomes a very dangerous instrument for a country that has a deep and lasting working and productive crisis; an instrument that will send into crisis, among other things, the real welfare system. This system will certainly not help recovery, favouring the spread of a passive mentality, because a people who receive money without producing and without feeling the need to be active produces only debt. Who among us would not want to abolish poverty in the country? But not in this way, not devoting so much money that will be taken away to so many important sectors for real growth and productivity. To give little to individuals, it will take away so much services for the country. We do not like this project of manoeuvre, because it creates false illusions; and this is not good. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] When the great-minister Di Maio says that he will abolish poverty, he deceives people, who will soon turn from illusion to disappointment. And this is bad, because, in doing so the last ones will remain last and, despite the use of so much money, the citizenship income will turn into citizenship debt. Businesses will find themselves more and more in difficulty and will close or leave elsewhere, while jobs will be less and less, as is happening today due to the decision-making impasse of the Minister of the Environment, which praises the support of the circular economy, but does not issue any decree to unblock the end of waste permits for the recycling of waste, which lie stored at the stationary plants, with many subjects who are crying for help, from Legambiente to Confindustria, passing through the associations. Meanwhile, money and jobs are lost. The Government's environmental document does not contain a single word on the dramatic situation of air quality in the Po Valley and in the North Regions in general; it may be included in the generic heading "Community infringements," but it is a serious deficiency, considering the health and social costs involved. It's hard to talk about this flat tax. Friends of the League, you have signed with us and with Brothers of Italy a program that provided for a real flat tax and not this kind of operation that on the one hand gives and on the other takes away ten times. It is not enough simply to call things with a name so that the intentions are realized; a real and necessary tax reform is not and lacks a real structural reform: there is only a slight touch up, which affects few. What page, for example, is read about the cut and the reform of excise duties, which has been so flagrant? I can't find him; maybe you can help me. However, the cost of fuel increases and weighs heavily on the family and business budgets. I think the 5 Stars have cannibalized this measure, and I hope the rest of the government realizes that. We have always stated that we would vote for measure by measure, but, after the decree of dignity, which has only begun to put into crisis the world of work, now it is up to this maneuver to finish the work. We can only try to make our contribution, realizing that all the shared points within the center-right program have been weakened and sacrificed on the altar of the program of the yellow part. Fiscal peace and bureaucratic peace pass through the freedom of the individual, through the respect of the citizen and not through a debordering parliamentary initiative such as that of the 5 Stars, who for everything think of a law, going in a precise sense and contrary to any liberal logic and trying to reach an oppressive and invasive ethical state, which regulates every aspect of the life of the citizens. Criticism is always easy. The proposals and solutions for us are not in the unconscious use of current expenditure, but in the investment to reduce labour costs, to reduce the tax wedge and the cost of energy, to help businesses, which are the jobs basin. This DEF however a change has already produced it: it has already produced debts and the erosion of the few savings of the Italians. There's still time. Listen to our suggestions and do not curl up: there is a nation to save. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u37	She is registered to speak Senator Bellanova. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we who support Italy and support Italians want to tell you with great determination that your maneuver is dangerous. It is dangerous not only because it is in debt, but because it lacks a strategic facility. Measures are lacking to stimulate economic growth and support those companies that innovate, bet on the future, create job opportunities, internationalise and conquer new markets. There are no measures to reduce the territorial gap. Mr President, I would like to be heard by the representative of the Government, who is not in his place. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u39	You're right, Senator Bellanova.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u40	Undersecretary Garavaglia, the government representative is expected to listen to the debate. Mr Garavaglia, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. I'm looking for a member of the government. (The Undersecretary Garavaglia resumes place among the benches of the Government). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Bellanova, continue your intervention. BELLANOVA (PD). There are no measures to reduce the territorial gap. In fact, you canceled the Mezzogiorno. Once the word "Half-Day" is mentioned in your provision. In order to justify this inattention, Maio made an effective joke: the South is not an Indian reserve. Of course, precisely because the South is not an Indian reserve, we need serious and continuous interventions, if you have no new ideas. At least you could have used that heritage of ideas and instruments that was left to you by those who ruled before you and gave results in the Mezzogiorno. Gentlemen of the Government and the majority, you have missed an opportunity to strengthen instruments such as tax credit for research and development, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which do not succeed on their own. You could strengthen the tax credit for the purchase of new machinery, development contracts and the Rest to the South initiative, which saw the presentation of over 7,000 questions from girls and boys who want to make their skills available to the country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You had to live up to a solemn commitment made by your Minister for the South on 100% decontribution to new recruits in the Mezzogiorno. There is no trace of this measure. I give you a tip: do not invite the Minister only to parties from the balcony, remember to invite him also to the meetings of the Council of Ministers. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You could do an intervention, as we suggested, to cut the cost of work indefinitely, while you only increased the cost of labour for permanent workers. Serious action was needed and must be taken to innovate manufacturing, quality services and agriculture, because the emergency that this country has is called work and work is not created with threats to public companies. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Work is created if you invest in growth and productivity and if you upgrade the manufacturing. We still hear you say that in the South high speed is not necessary. That means you're going in another direction. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We must instill confidence in investors and attract investment, both Italian and foreign, of what you insult and continue to insult in this debate. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The truth is, your idea is welfare. Take a measure to declare the end of poverty, while the poor are there and waiting for answers. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Empty inclusion income (REI), training 4.0, and school-work alternation to fund your propaganda. As far as citizenship income is concerned, we will then take action on the substance. You do not know how to activate this instrument, but a lady, undersecretary Castelli, says she wants to send the Finance Guard if a poor person goes to a Unieuro store. What do you have against these stores? They don't have games rooms and they can't sell so-called scratchers. Poor people can go there to buy a fridge. If in the case of a refrigerator you send the Finance Guard, what will you do if the purchase involves a fridge and a washing machine? Will you send the Army? Carabinieri on horseback? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Maio, who has a fierce distrust of potential beneficiaries, spoke of six years in prison. Listen, citizens and townsmen, who have voted for them: they are pardoning for the rich and for the evaders, prison for the poor. [[Applause from the PD Group]] ; not withdrawal of funding, but imprisonment. You could waste your jokes, but I want to ask you a question: are you not even ashamed of this drift on which you have placed yourself? Consider those who voted for you as untrustworthy, deceptive people to be wary of. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Speak of dignity and trample upon the dignity of the last. You then deservedly won a title: not that of innovators, not of the Government of change, but of thieves of the future. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u41	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u42	Mr President, representatives of the Government, fellow senators, my fellow senators, it is always an emotion and a privilege for me to speak in this House, for what Parliament represents in our democratic institutions, but today the emotion is double because in a few hours we will take the first step of a long journey towards the small, great dream that had a group of women and men who would then constitute the Movimento 5 Stars: the dream of bringing citizens closer to politics, the one with the "P" capital, the one that puts people and their needs at the centre of actions and institutions. A noble and simple activity at the same time, which has the sole purpose of making women and men live better, and to do this it must consider them as sovereign individuals as a whole and not as subjects to be vexed. Today we are at the first real stage of this journey and we have the opportunity to transform into reality some of the ideas and dreams of Movimento 5 Stars: the dream to improve the quality of life of many Italians, to keep faith in the commitments we have made in the electoral campaign. Mr Nadef's measures have been well illustrated by the rapporteur and his colleagues who preceded me, and finally by Mr Lannotti, so I will not repeat them. We are convinced that the whole of these measures meet the criteria of social justice and equity, and will lead the country to stronger and more lasting growth. Indeed, as the Vice-Director of the Bank of Italy said at the hearing, more sustained growth and greater social cohesion are not contrary to budgetary discipline: a concept, moreover expressed by some Nobel laureates, that we simply elected citizens in Parliament have been supporting together for a long time. Indeed, in our view, social inclusion and the possibility of creating jobs or giving the income of citizenship to those in poverty, as well as the possibility of more money circulating in the real economy, make it easier and faster to achieve the objectives set out in the European Treaties, which include, for example, a deficit-GDP ratio that should not exceed 3%, and a debt-GDP ratio that should aim at 60%. But some people in this House and outside say that the deficit-GDP ratio of 2.4%, that the NADEF programme for 2019, and all these measures do not represent the light at the end of the tunnel, as we support, but risk bringing the country to ruin by exposing it to international speculation; that it will be difficult to refinance the public debt because we will be less credible for the markets; that in essence we are irresponsible and we are giving money to the poor, and according to them we cannot afford it at this time and to this extent; that we are interrupting - hear, hear - the virtuous cycle put in place by previous governments. I wonder: are these points of view, which are obviously respectable but which we do not share, supported by factual findings and numbers, or are they exercises of fallacious economic theories? The austerity policies that have been imposed on our country since 2011 and the consequent significant increase in poverty, the tragic deterioration of the living conditions of many Italians have brought - at least this - benefit in the public finances? No, absolutely not. And this is demonstrated by the numbers of the last ten years, in particular the debt-to-GDP ratio, which - I still remember - for the Treaties has to decrease significantly and tend to the value of 60%. Well, in 2008, the first year of the crisis was 102.4%. Then, in 2009, it had already risen to 112.5 percent. But they told us that it was the first year of real crisis and that it would fall in the following years. And, in fact, in 2010, instead of going down, it still rose to 115.4 percent. In 2011, despite the arrival of the professor and senator for Monti life, it still rises to 116.5 percent. They told us, however, to be quiet, that it was not the fault of the Bocconians and Professor Monti but of the previous Government and that, therefore, all the sacrifices and austerity imposed on us by the European Union would have saved us, not only shortly, but, indeed, would have given us wealth from there shortly. In fact, the following year, the year of the government full of bocconians and professors (like the government of the barbarians leghisti and triggers of today) brings that report to 123,4. In 2013, the year of the elections and the new government, a government practically of national unity, this figure grows, still increasing to 129 percent; in 2014, the year of the Led and Renzi Governments, rose to 131,8, which is the maximum historical in the period considered. But they told us, it changes everything. You will see that in the next few years it will be better. In fact, over the next three years, it has decreased by 0.2 percent per year. At this rate, it will take us three hundred and sixty years to reach a 60% deficit-GDP ratio. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Of course, it is a situation that we could not bear. We made a commitment to our constituents. We have put in place an expansive maneuver and we are sure that the markets will appreciate it in the very short term. I conclude by saying that I am proud and happy to have had the privilege of participating in the training and approval of this Update Note to the DEF which, for the measures outlined in the policy framework, is the hope of a better life for millions of our fellow countrymen, which is the main objective of this political force. When, in a few hours, we in the Movimento 5 Stars Group press the green button, with us will push it, ideally, the millions of citizens who have supported us and believe in us. And I would add that, together with us, the founders of the Movimento 5 Stars, Beppe Grillo and Gianroberto Casaleggio, who looks up there, will ideally vote. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u43	Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u44	Mr President, I try to make three points in these few minutes. The first is on communication. I noticed, in fact, that the wrong things enjoy the privilege of being often told in simple words, while the right things often do not enjoy this privilege and need frequently complex reasoning. I'm thinking, for example, "numbers." I try to say it in a simple way, because it is true that they do not come from any physical and astronomical principle. I try to explain it this way: even the speed limit sign before a curve is not mandatory or drastic. It simply says one thing: exceeding that limit exposes you to greater risks of getting off the road. Then, it depends on the conditions of the car you are driving. Those who have a car with a trunk full of debts run less risk than those who have debts in a loaded trailer attached to the towing hook. That's all. Ignoring numbers, i.e. speed limits, means running a lot of risks of getting out of the way. Then there is also to consider who is behind the wheel. Well, you're behind the wheel, the League and the Five Star Movement, and you're doing the wrong maneuver, leading the country into the ditch. What did we do when we were in the government? VOICE FROM THE L-SP-Psd'az GROUP. Nothing. COLLINA (PD). We had walked on that ridge, which is still the one on which we are still today, which has on the one hand the ravine of the increase in public debt and on the other the ravine of the lack of economic growth. And it was a successful balance exercise, because we have returned, after five years of government, a country firmly set on the path of debt reduction and equally located in a clear path of economic growth through investments on infrastructure and on the territory. You see, Senator Lannotti, you said we brought the country to recession, but that's not true, and your vote on the final of a few days ago certifies it. If today you can gamble with the country's accounts giving it a semblance of sustainability, it is thanks to the work of these governments of ours. [[Comments from the FI-BP Group.]] Finally, this is no less important than yesterday we heard, in accordance with what I said earlier, trivializing with simple words. Article 81 of the Constitution provides that the State shall ensure the balance between the revenue and expenditure of its budget taking into account the adverse stages and the favourable phases of the economic cycle and that the use of debt is permitted only in order to consider the effects of the economic cycle. On this specific point, the Update Note is worrying because it theorizes a double violation of Article 81 of the Constitution. Article 81 states that one can be indebted to go against the economic cycle: this presupposes that the cycle is negative, as was the case in the last parliamentary term. This is not an arbitrary element and instead is arbitrarily postulated within the Update Note. There is no trace of the second requirement for debt, namely the exceptional events, earthquakes or other, which we have faced in the previous five years. We say, therefore, that this DEF violates the limits set by the Constitution in Article 81. Well, in the face of this you go ahead, you renounce to face all the elements of complexity that today the international framework places and exponent the country to serious risks. We will also oppose this with proposals in the forthcoming debate on the budget law. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u45	She's enlisted to speak Senator Giammanco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u46	Mr President, the update note to the DEF is all over the place and there are many passages that leave us perplexed. One of these is certainly what concerns the characteristics that should have the proposals of work to do to those who perceive the income of citizenship, an instrument that we consider purely charitable and that Forza Italia fails in total. Well, black and white is written in the Update Note to the economic and financial document that the job proposals will have to be fair and I would so much like to understand what is meant by fair, because it is a very vague term that leaves room for interpretation: it means everything, but it doesn't mean anything and then who will determine when a proposal is fair and when it isn't? Also in the Update Note, it says that these job proposals will not have to be far from the place of residence of the potential worker, so who will not accept a job proposal because it is not comfortable enough, why not under home, will continue to receive the income of permanent citizenship? Here, on this point I believe that we should make absolutely clear, because if this is the message you want to send, it is a strongly anti-educational message to be given to the new generations. Instead of telling kids that work gives dignity, so you have to work, you have to roll up your sleeves even at the cost of making sacrifices, you have to work even at the cost of changing cities, with the citizenship income formulated in this way you are taking the responsibility of telling these same kids not to accept to work if they don't like it, so the State keeps them. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Not to mention the fact that these proposals for work should come from employment centres, which are currently not networked together, do not have sufficient IT facilities and only account for 3% of those who are addressing them. The income of citizenship, therefore, according to your calculations, will be distributed immediately, but in the meantime we will wait for the employment centers to really work, be efficient and can give concrete answers in terms of job proposals. Years will pass and the short circuit will be inevitable. I want to point out that for us in Forza Italia the fight against poverty is sacrosanct, but not if it is done with these instruments. If jobs are not created with investments, which have not come to NADEF, employment centres will do nothing. The point is this: to create new jobs, while you with a 100" share start from the wrong idea that a young person's work is closely linked to an old man's pension. So start from the assumption that the number of jobs is fixed and contingent; a contradiction in terms, since you define the Government of change and you argue that your economic recipes will help the country's growth. In fact, an economy that is incapable of creating new jobs does not grow and the government will be responsible for this. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u47	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u48	Mr President, a great deal has been said about numbers these days; this has been done in Parliament's classrooms and in the Commissions. There have been numerous clarifications from the government. I believe that on this level the reliability of the numbers proposed in the DEF has been clarified. It is not clear how reliable MEF estimates can not be considered today, with this Government, when it has always been believed that they were with previous governments. They are today, as they were in the past. However, beyond the numbers, we must consider the situation in which the country lives. The economic situation, the well-being of its citizens and, from there, start to make choices. What is the situation that we photograph today, after six years of central-left governments, of the Democratic Party, of the various governments Monti, Letta, Renzi and Gentiloni? It is the photograph of a country in great difficulty. There is talk of growth; there is no growth, there is not yet. Let's remember that in the past years the growth of Italy has been a taillight at European level. You have had great opportunities at this stage to grow the economy in an apparently more favourable situation than in the past. But you didn't engage the recovery, you didn't take advantage of a situation that could give opportunities. Can it also be said that after these six years the level of taxation for businesses and households has decreased? I do not think so, and from this point of view too, it is necessary to change, we cannot continue with regard to the policies you have implemented in the past years. With regard to unemployment, our country is experiencing a dramatic situation, especially at the level of young people. One fact that you do not constantly mention and ignore is that of the emigration of our citizens; 100,000 Italians per year emigrate to other countries in search of luck. That is unacceptable. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] They emigrate especially young graduates, who should be the hope of our future. The pension system has changed from that of Italy in the 1980s, of baby pensions, to that of the PD of the 2000s, which is the highest at European level. This is an unacceptable situation which forces citizens, who work their whole lives, to retire at an unacceptable age. The projections in fact, without changing the Fornero law, speak of workers who would be seventy years old in factories, companies and jobs. So this must change and this must also happen to give young people the opportunity to enter the world of work and businesses to have new forces equipped with knowledge related to the needs of this historical phase of our economy. Then there is another theme that the left - which you should theoretically represent - has not addressed, and it is that of social inequalities that under your governments have increased in an indecorous and unacceptable way. The gap between rich and poor has increased, the middle class no longer exists, and this is thanks to your non-existent policies from this point of view. You have strangled local authorities by giving no more resources with absolutely unacceptable rules in public works investments. This government has already started reforms that allow to use the surplus budget and will do so in the coming years, with this DEF and with the budget law, finally promoting investments. Then there was the crisis of the banking system, a crisis that you have dealt with irresponsiblely. With a decree-law, within one night, you have wiped out the savings of tens of thousands of savers. You did not succeed in saving the Venetian banks, in fact burning the fruit of the work of many Italian families that have spared and that you have not protected, indeed, you have condemned them to a situation of poverty and misery. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Then there is immigration policy which was simply insane and irresponsible. You have transformed Italy into the refugee centre of Europe, you have spent five billion a year to fatten exclusively the so-called host cooperatives. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In front of these numbers, in front of these data, then, what can be done? What can this Government do, however, that arises from the alliance of two distinct political forces. Mr Laus (PD). Same! You're the same! TOSATO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Two forces that have different programmes but have a duty to govern together because they have had the consent of the citizens unlike the political forces of the past that have been strongly rejected by the elections. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Mr Laus (PD). You're 17 percent! TOSATO (L-SP-PSd'Az). We do not choose the line of continuity with previous governments. We have a duty to try another way, because you simply failed. [[Comments from the PD Group]] This is the fact that it is not an evaluation of the League, it is an assessment of the Italian citizens that you should respect and not consider ignorant because they make choices different from those you expect from them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] It is a difficult process, it is a process that requires commitment, but we will carry it forward with determination. We can accept everything, we can accept criticism from everyone, especially from the citizens we meet constantly, but the sermons on your part will never be accepted. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Not from those who for the last six years have taken away from Italian citizens all the certainties they had. They have lost all certainty in the future. [[Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] This is the real distrust that exists in our country and the responsibility is clear. You have taken from him the certainty that you feel safe in your own homes. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] You're co-responsible, with your empty prisons. You have taken away their confidence to see their savings safely, with the crisis of the banking system and with the choices to cancel the savings of Italian citizens. You have taken away from them the certainty of a pension that would give dignity to their old age, you have taken away from them the certainty of having a decent job and of having a decent income. This is the uncertainty that exists in our country. This is the climate of insecurity of our citizens: an insecurity that comes from your policies, from Monti's policies, tax policies, from Fornero reform, from cuts to local authorities, but also from subsequent governments. Colleagues, in relation to the deficit-GDP ratio you have implemented financial laws with deficits of 3%, 2.6, 2.5, with a Renzi theorizing 2.9, and only the financial of this government at 2.4 should terrify the markets, should be the cause of all the crises of our country. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] We don't take this kind of lesson. Europe is an entity that has a Commission that expresses its judgments, but let us remember that it is not a technical body: it is a political body led by representatives of political parties that are part of the People's Party and the Socialist Party. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u49	I invite you to conclude, Senator Tosato.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u50	TOSATO (L-SP-PSd'Az). So, it's not a neutral vision. Another key issue that has been touched on is trust and credibility: for us, too, these are important values. The confidence of the markets is important; perhaps it is the confidence of the European Commission; certainly it is the confidence of the Italian people, and you have lost it. [[Senator Pharaoh's comments.]] We have conquered it and it is our duty to make courageous choices, assume our responsibilities and govern in the interests of the people. This is our only goal and we will rule only under these conditions.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u51	Senator Tosato, I invite you to conclude; it is already beyond the time you have been given.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u52	TOSATO (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'm finishing. We will rule only on these conditions, not on others; not as others who have ruled against the people. [[Comments from the PD Group]] We will rule alone and always in the exclusive interest of the citizens. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u53	He's enlisted to speak Senator Missa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u54	Mr President, there is no doubt that this Update Note represents the first important political act of this Government and the majority supporting it. I find, therefore, surreal, absurd, that those who have responsibilities of government continue to look to an opposition to the past, without any condition to indicate a path for our future and for the future of this country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We continue to confuse the important responsibilities that are within this House; that is, we continue to look at the elections and neglect the generations. I find this unacceptable, irresponsible, harmful to Italians first of all. This Update Note radically changes the path of economic, financial, structural policies in the state budget. It makes a reversal that we consider dangerous, because it abandons a road, one that had been in the condition - even in the face of a difficult macroeconomic framework - of combining support for growth with an estate, a consolidation of the public accounts. Colleagues, the numbers remain; the chatter disappears. From 2008 to 2013 we lost 9.4 points of GDP; from 2014 to 2017 we recovered 3.7: these are structural elements that cannot be erased from propaganda. This is a dangerous, treacherous reversal. For the first time, Italy is moving into a macroeconomic framework which this measure does not take into account, which is completely unrelated to the macroeconomic framework above us. In other words, Italy is put on a roller coaster, putting stability, credibility and trust at risk. Moreover, within this House, we also see an instrumental, unsustainable opposition between the people and the market, between society and the economy, between the public and the private; an opening of an unnatural conflict, without reference values, because to improve the living conditions of citizens, to combat poverty, the main road remains support for work, growth and development. On the contrary, this is a maneuver that represents a perimeter totally oriented to forms of subsidies, of assistance, denying the future and opposing the people to the market, when we know well that in order to improve the living conditions of citizens we need to live within a community; we need to guarantee work, and work is guaranteed through investment. And thus opposing the people to the market is madness and a serious mistake, because there is no vision of the future. A country that wants to look to the future, in fact, first makes a structural investment in training, school and health [[Applause from the PD Group]] , not in propagandistic assistance or in measures where growth is overestimated. Another fundamental issue, which concerns us very much, is that the multipliers that you put alongside the income of citizenship - and, even more, investment - are unreal: the 12 connected you have foreseen will occupy almost the first half of 2019, so you have also built unsustainable forecasts and you cannot complain if the markets do not trust us, because, through nationalist and sovereignist policies, you are isolating the country, generating distrust and reducing the propensity to investment.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u55	I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u56	MANCA (PD). I'm done, Mr. President. And look, unfortunately, the price of this instability and this absurd madness of those who want to bend Italy towards something individual and unsustainable in welfare forms will be poured on families and businesses, because the propensity to invest within the family will be reduced and access to credit will become more difficult, indispensable to generate work and growth. All this, then, leads me to think that when we say that a vision of the future is lacking, it is because unfortunately it will be the young people who will pay this price, if we do not change orientation and road. This debt, unfortunately, will be on the shoulders of young people, to whom we guarantee nothing for their future within this maneuver and perimeter. I think it's the most dangerous and insidious act you have to correct and we hope that... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u57	She's registered to speak Senator Malpezzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u58	Mr President, representatives of the government, I come from the world of school, where I taught literature and futurism I loved. And my students also liked it, because you will understand that artists who present themselves as being able to undo the knowledge constituted and talk about innovation and the future clearly touch the hearts, warm the souls and give a dream. Many of those who voted for you may have thought that, since you presented yourself as such, you had their own future at heart. In reality, the futurists - and therefore the vision of the future - have only the words in freedom: their words in freedom, however, created and carried art, while yours create disasters. Luckily, the words in freedom that you give us every day with your monologues via social can contrast the reason, perhaps a little 'cold, numbers. And this update note to the DEF that you exalted and incensed in the Commissions and that you even celebrated on a balcony as a maneuver of the people, we realized that you did it because the people would pay it and, above all, those you continue not to defend, that is the young people. Let's go see why you don't defend young people, through the certainty of numbers. You who want to combine everything with the indicative future, but who then, with your "do" and "do" we will say "do" and "promise" nothing, you have already said three certain things, thanks to the numbers you presented in the Update Note to the DEF: first, there are zero investments in knowledge, which means zero investments in culture, university, research and school; secondly, there are zero real investments in work. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from Group L-SP-PSd'Az):]] For now, the only thing you have done has been to discourage it, and you know very well what the first results of 'decree unemployment' are. Thirdly, let the very young people you are saying pay the debts: perhaps we will give you a citizenship income and, in the meantime, think about your present. Who knows for the future? On that, in fact, just cut. 5 Star Movimento colleagues, did you or didn't you say you'd invest 15 billion in school? Where's that table? Are you late on the road map or is there something wrong? [[Applause from the PD Group]] The school for now only uses it as an ATM and cuts it. Your words don't say that at liberty, but the numbers you have attached to the DEF tables. To make cash you cut on the hours of school-work alternation. You cut the funds! You could have cut the hours - we would have been against it anyway - but why did you cut the funds on the school-work alternation? Then you tell us that for one person you're gonna retire another you're gonna hire her? Companies want skills, which are acquired through school-work alternation, which is the first tool for the acquisition of cross-cutting skills. [[Applause from the PD Group]] All you do is uninvest on Industry 4.0 and Enterprise 4.0, because, for you, the memory is only that of the past. Bet on what gives you consent because change scares you. You said you'd set up the scissors team. You started at school, so we believe you. Don't just cut it off on students; cut it off on teachers because in your DEF you remove 300 million from teachers' salaries. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] You didn't put a euro on the renewal of contracts. The ugly and bad people of the Democratic Party put 14 billion on the school. We no longer accept lessons from anyone and, let alone, from you, who are - I read it to you because the quote is clearly not mine - the most brilliant example of how the most radical revolutionaries become conservative the day after the revolution. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u59	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u60	Mr President, I must tell you that I would like to make a speech on numbers, trying to analyse in depth some of the main aspects of this FED Update Note. President. - I cannot, unfortunately. In spite of this, I will be forced to make an intervention between the seriousness and the facet, especially after having seen the images - which I would never have thought to attend - of an economic minister who is silenced by the President of the Commission in the solemn hearing: I would never have imagined seeing in this country an economic minister who is removed from the press of a Minister of the Interior to avoid a confrontation with journalists. In the face of all this, it is difficult to maintain restraint and seriousness. All this represents a vulnus which, unfortunately, stems from the fact that two parties of a profoundly different and diametrically opposed nature have united. We have a party, the League, which is linked to the principles - which we share too - of the free market, so the State is at the service of the citizen and for which we bet on man and not on the State, which intervenes only in a subsidiary way. On the other hand, we have another political force that believes that the centre should not be the person, but the State, which intervenes in all economic dynamics. It gets really hard. I say this out of misunderstanding: on citizenship income, how can we say no regardless? There are pockets of the South and many parts of the country that are experiencing great difficulties and, then, it is obvious that we too wanted to help. There's no doubt about that. The problem is how you are implementing this support and timing. First, for example, the cut in the tax wedge had to be introduced, so taxes had to be reduced and the state had to be streamlined. A few days ago the "Corriere della Sera" showed us in a dramatic way that to open a hairdressing shop in Italy in 2018 it still takes 48 nothingaosta. Do you think that with these dynamics you can re-launch the economy and GDP? Bet everything on GDP growth and a law of stability that is hallucinating, because there's a crazy rush to consensus that you're doing at the expense of citizens: load the deficit to keep your promises and you made a crazy omelet, putting together some flat tax, some Fornero and some citizenship income. This will not bring any benefit, but it will bring damage and it is wrong for those who say that this damage will be borne by future generations; that is not true. The damages we pay today with the increase of the mortgage for those who have a flexible interest rate, as we pay today also the damages of the vicious spread, but since there is the internationalization of the debt it is normal that there is an indicator that allows foreign investors to understand if it is the case or not to invest. I think this spread race will take us to the abyss. How then, President, can we be serious before a minister like Toninelli, not so much for the Brenner tunnel, but for the lies he told the citizens of Genoa, since after two months he pulled the rabbit out of the cylinder, naming the mayor of the city? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I would like Minister Toninelli not to stay in the chambers of power today and go to Genoa to meet the citizens there and make his footbridge. In fact, no, I'll give you some advice, send us Rocco Casalino, that you and only you could make the genius of communication in this country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I see here in the Chamber some representatives of the Government - and I greet the Undersecretary Garavaglia - who are highly esteemed people. However, when Vice-Minister Castelli comes to the Budget Committee in the morning, I have a feeling of tenderness for her, seeing her devastated at 9 a.m., drowned by her bags, full of thoughts and concerns. This is the scenario. So how can I tolerate the fact that a vice minister of the economy has to tell me the things I can or can't buy? It is something that cannot be seriously analyzed on our part. Dear friends, colleagues, you have insulted journalists; you have attacked public officials only because they are loyal to the Constitution; you have mocked professors of economics; you have even isolated the General Accounting of the State. To us mortals, to us Italian citizens, therefore, we rely on luck, because so much seriousness on these accounts is not there. That's why we thought we'd give you the game "The wheel of fortune". Do You Remember? It's a bit of a game because it tells the story of your conception of public finances: this is your approach, the game "The wheel of fortune". I imagine Minister Savona standing there turning the wheel, with Borghi immediately intervening because it is necessary to guarantee par condicio since, you know, one cannot prevail over the other; all this then with the two great directors Di Maio and Salvini and all strictly live Facebook. Be careful, though, friends, because that game contemplates the bankruptcy box. The hope that we turn to you, but above all to our fellow citizens, is that that box will remain an option of the game and will not become, because of your arrogance, the destiny of an entire nation. This is the game we want to give you, it is a wonderful game. Try to do it because you're taking the numbers from here, relying on a wheel of fortune. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] . Senator Saccone shows a sign on which the image of the game is reproduced). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Saccone, please put the sign back. He behaved well until a moment ago. SACCONE (FI-BP). Thank you, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Laforgia. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u61	Mr President, the economic maneuver and the Update Note that precedes it are certainly the most burdensome commitment of each government and a kind of identity card. Let me say at once, Mr President, that the first steps of this Government in the most important session, which is the budgetary session, do not seem so brilliant to us; indeed, what emerges is a figure of approximation, superficiality and (let me tell you) even of sloppyness. In fact, we may not like this model in which we live (we do not like it and indeed we would like to overcome it), but not be aware that the statement of the last of the Undersecretaries creates unnecessary uncertainty and fibrillation to the country is a responsibility that makes this Government prove itself not up to the test. I even say that without the content we want to deal with. In my opinion, the ten years behind us have changed the face of this country and Europe, because Italy comes out of the most severe economic crisis since the post-war period, completely changed, as inequalities, poverty and marginalities have increased, processes of real industrial desertification and deindustrialisation have begun; public investment has fallen dramatically. From 2008 to 2018 public investment has fallen by 46 percent and only in 2018 the level of public investment is equal to 1.9 percent of gross domestic product, that is to say much below the needs of this country. Faced with this framework, we would need a policy that produces a shock, an economic and social policy that produces a clear breakthrough. I say this because we think (and we have also written it in our motion for a resolution) that not only for us it is not a taboo to exceed the parameters imposed by Europe, or rather those on which our country also agreed at the time to work, so the famous level of 2.4 percent of the ratio of deficit to gross domestic product; not only is it not a taboo to get to that type of overflow, but we think that that must be the step to really change the architecture of the rules and get rid of that straitjacket that austerity policy has represented in this long season for the countries that instead should have made development policies. However, let us not forget that the Government, which perhaps identifies an important issue, is very far from this objective. The theme is whether you want to change the fiscal compact in Europe and, if you have this will, with whom you intend to do so. I say this through you, Mr President, first of all to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement: if you have entered into this affair to change that attitude with the countries of Visegrád, I wish you all the best because that is the wrong direction and, above all, it is the worst. For us the theme is no longer the overtaking of parameters, but what to do within that frame. Our impression, very clear, is that you are preparing to make a maneuver that is primarily electoral, obsessed with the idea of capitalizing those measures in the coming months in relation to the appointment of the European elections. It is also a maneuver in which a divisional logic emerges clearly. I mean that when we are faced with a maneuver in which each measure is perfectly attributable to those who have requested it (in this case the two forces that make up the majority), it means that there is a partitioning logic and that there is no main element, that is, the strategic look on the country, on where we intend to bring Italy after the long ten years of economic crisis that have changed it. That is what we think and say because there are positive aspects within the measures that we do not want to open up a debate and a debate. I think, for example, of the 100 quota, even if it is imagined in an insufficient and messy way, and of the income of citizenship (of which we will then see the contents), which more resembles a measure of compassionate welfare, even with the supervision of an ethical state that must say what to consume and what not. I mean, these are measures that we want to confront. The issue is (I say this to my colleagues in the majority): how do these measures stand together with others who clearly have a regressive character? You are preparing a measure that is outside the Constitution, because flat tax (which is the Robin Hood measure on the contrary, which takes away the poor to give to the rich) is outside the Constitution because it does not respect fiscal progressivity. How are the social measures that you have identified together with fiscal peace? Call it what you should call it, that is, a real pardon. That's the bottom line. For us - and I am closing, Mr President - some measures are worthwhile, which should be priority measures. Put a larger piece of extra-tragettito on public investment, first of all in strategic sectors, in the maintenance of the territory of a country that literally makes water from all sides (it is not just a metaphor). Do a different operation, other than tax peace and flat tax; do an operation as larger countries than ours are doing, that is, of strong fiscal progressivity, until you get to measures where there is also the possibility to imagine a form of taxation on large assets, to make redistributive policies. You have spoken of nationalization, in the aftermath of the tragedy of Genoa, but you have included 10 billion privatisations in this document. Will you explain this contradiction to us? If you are renationalising in some areas, we want to look for a comparison. Then there is a very delicate sector, perhaps the most delicate, that of the National Health System, public health. You wrote in black and white that this country is going towards a decline in that system, because in a few years it passes from 6.5 to 6.4 in the ratio of spending for that sector to gross domestic product. A country below that threshold is a country that, according to the World Health Organization, cannot be said to be civilized. That is why - and I am really closing - we think that this kind of priority should be put back at the centre. Leave aside the obsession with the next election campaign and take care of this country, which we believe you are not doing to the full, because you are imagining measures that do not go in the right direction and above all that do not do the good of those who today have paid more than others the heat of the economic crisis. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u62	She's registered to speak Senator Rivolta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after the intense series of hearings in recent days, the Additional Note to the 2018 DEF has arrived in the Chamber, which contains the economic policy lines that will form the basis of the next budget law. During the hearings many were the findings and concerns expressed by the audit bodies and by many minority colleagues (legitimately, since it is their role), who considered too optimistic the predictions of the positive effects of an expansion of expenditure capable of generating more consumption, according to estimates - they say - too different from the expected trend lines. Some interventions - I say this out of intellectual honesty - have been important, high-profile and stimulating to keep under strict control the implementation of the policies initiated, allowing, if necessary, precise and timely corrective adjustments. It is true that every government is faced with deviations from the forecasts, as has been said during the hearings and as Minister Tria said: if they are necessary, they will be done. I add: as other governments have done, the conditions have changed. However, in the light of the results of recent years, it cannot be denied that GDP growth in Italy has been modest (it has been recalled in many interventions that we remain the taillight in Europe), just as the debt reduction has not been very significant. So we remain convinced that we need to make an expansive manoeuvre, as other countries in Europe are doing, exceeding the target of deficit. I remember the figures: 2.4 percent in 2019, 2.1 percent in 2020 and 1.8 percent in 2021. For starters, for 2019 the deficit of 2.4 percent will ensure the decommissioning of the increase in VAT, which certainly could have a depressing effect on consumption, as feared by all those who trade or produce. In the Update Note this Government has emphasized how there will be a departure, especially for investments, with resources that - it is obvious - will still have to be increased. Many opposition colleagues said: you promised in the election campaign. We're not in the election campaign, we're discussing an additional note to the DEF. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Some colleagues who have been here for many years should know that. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Compared to what we promised, we are making a program to carry out those promises, as far as possible, in the years we will rule. So be quiet (I know it's something that's a little bad, said in this House). [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Stay calm, move on. Of course, there will be a lot of money in relation to investment, but the big challenge will be to find solutions to make public administration much more efficient. This is a crucial aspect. The turnover will be fundamental, which will favour young people who in recent years have not entered the world of work, not even in the public administration, just to make a little clarification. These young people will be able to build a wealth of human resources that will change things, thanks to their modern and corporate culture and the desire to change the world. Unfortunately, the generations affected by the so-called Fornero reform (who look forward to a change in order to finish their career) cannot have and give the same impetus to change. We are talking about a change that is necessary in terms of different professionalism and design. That is the real challenge. We are talking, for example, about employment centres. Of course these must be reversed and something completely different must be studied. In this country the intelligences are there and are represented by those young people who will finally be able to stay in Italy to make their country bigger and not the United Kingdom, Germany, Spain or the United States. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] We must be able to be attractive to this generation of intelligences. Not only that, important changes are also needed with regard to the procurement code. We need to simplify and speed up the machine. I'm also a local administrator like my colleague Zuliani. Think about how much the municipalities are plastered, how many works have been blocked and how much work has been stopped and could have started thanks to the small, medium and large works of the thousands of Italian municipalities. Being a local administrator today is crazy, because you are in a cast place, where you could give the car keys to the executives inviting them to do what they can with what little there is. But that's not it. This is a defeat of the state. We must return to the value of the work of the municipalities. It struck me so much when former Minister Padoan said that there were still enormous waste left in the municipalities. The municipalities are reduced to the bone and daily they have to respond to those poor - and we understand that there are over 5 million - who knock first of all on the mayors and city councilmen to social services. There are complicated, frighteningly complicated situations: diseases, people without work, the new emergency of the frightening increase of autistic children. These are crazy situations and the municipalities don't know how to deal with all these emergencies. So dignity, funds, speed, but if the system doesn't start even at local level, you don't go anywhere. Of course there are also the great works, but there is above all the forecast of a center of operational competence at national level, that can offer to all the administrations a consultancy, of the services of assistance with a very high professionalism. In the Provinces, municipalities and in many cases even at the level of state offices there are no more professionalism so high, and this is a impoverishment. In this sense the challenges are really great, but the line drawn is there: there is well present the goal that you want to achieve. As far as the tax system is concerned, there will be special attention for this year to young people, so that a lightening can allow young people to share and hire; we know how much our productive fabric is based on small ones as well. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] All over Italy we must respond to these people, and we are sure that their lives are work, because work is dignity; there is a culture of work. So this money won't be wasted, but it will create wealth and growth. We must respond to youth unemployment. One last joke about school. I am also city councilman for education and during this period I go around classes, I listen professors and I have not found professors who have magnified me the effects of the provision on Good School. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Everyone told me: carry out the amendment of the Fornero law, because it is no longer possible; let us out and let new levers in. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] This is one of the objectives and we will pursue it together with everyone else, with conviction, with care, not as irresponsible because we have roles that do not allow us to be irresponsible; with prudence, but also with courage and we will make it convincedly led by our ministers and our government team. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u64	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in previous speeches the DEF has already been dug, defended and heavily criticized. I shall confine myself to building a framework of risks in which Italy could sink over the next few weeks, because of three factors that this morning, by the majority and those who support the Government, have not been challenged at all. I see the weakness of this Document above all in three factors. The confirmation of little investment: yesterday we discussed it in the Committee on Infrastructure and Transport. The total figure of 3.5 billion is absolutely not able not to say to favor a form of any growth of this extraordinary country, but is not even able to bring to conclusion commitments made in the infrastructural field by the governments that have preceded the current Executive. The second factor to stress is that there is a clear prevalence of redistributive interventions: and there we stop. The third is that, digging into the tables of the document of economy and finance, it is absolutely impossible to trace any emphasis that concerns school and culture. And without any evidence of investing funds in school and culture it is difficult to build a future for any of us who are preparing to live it. Under these conditions, the risk of rating agencies building a deleterious scenario at the end of the month thanks to this manoeuvre, causing Italy to sink to a lower level than the current triple B, is a risk that we cannot afford and allow. This is all because there are many European credit and investment institutions, starting with the Swedish and German ones, which have in their statutes the obligation not to invest in countries considered, if they fall in level, junk countries. The opinion that is being formed for Italian government bonds is that, if you do not resort to a sort of gold maneuver at the homeland of the late 1920s, Italy no longer has a real coat hanger where to hang a significant part of its debt. There is a consideration to be made, because I never imagine that those who are in charge of such an extraordinary Italy are a wretched and naive. Ergo, behind this maneuver we read a sort of first general test to build a scenario that is removed from our roots, away from our identity and that is preparing to build a European framework that is quite different from the one we have known. The clash today, Mr President, is no longer between open society and solidarity. The clash in Europe and the world today is between open societies and solidarity societies, on the one hand, and societies based on ethnic nationalism on the other. I imagine (and unfortunately add) that it will be a lasting separation and that it will dig deep trenches and I live this story with concern. Today we are living the general proof of this story. This is the first real measure of the Government, much more than the measures on migrants, which traces this ditch. It is not a border line, but a border difficult to cross for those who believe that open society and solidarity can still exist today. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bertacco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u66	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today discussing the DEF Update Note presented by the Government, which sets out the lines for the next Stability Act. A note, in our opinion, superficial and from which (there are many cases) do not understand the modalities of the interventions announced. You see, we're not afraid of a deficit maneuver. Every good family father in his life has decided to get into debt to achieve important goals: the purchase of a home, dental care for his children, the start of a new business. Debts always aimed at improving the quality of life. Improvements that, on the other hand, we find difficult to find in the Note. This Note does not give us great hope, but only one certainty. After the launch of the maneuver the Italians will acquire a greater debt per capita. In order to get into the concrete, we would have liked a more decisive introduction of flat tax; we would have liked more relief for the companies that hire young people, who appear to be forgotten in the document we are debating today. We would have liked that, before committing 10 billion to citizenship income, we had thought of the world of production, of who really creates the places and does not tell them. A citizenship income that you know very well will not start immediately, because it is based on the reorganization of employment centers, which today are a black hole, do not work: the data collected tell us that only 3.2 percent of registered employment centers have found a response. I would also like to point out that since 2003, with the Biagi law, private individuals and other institutions, such as universities, have been able to carry out the same tasks as employment centres, and then the demand arises spontaneously: wasn't it not also necessary to verify the data of these organisations to understand the situation of the work supply, before thinking about a strong investment in employment centres? I therefore strongly repeat that, before employing thousands of people for employment centres, it was necessary to help businesses create jobs, in order to generate an increase in labour supply. Less taxes, reductions for companies, incentives for new recruitment: this had to be the guiding principle of maneuvering. In order to remain always in the subject of citizenship income, there are interventions already tried and still current as the REI, which in fact is proving to be a mere welfare intervention due to lack of supply from the world of work. What are you doing? Add another one. I know you will not take our remarks into consideration, because this is a measure that has its value in terms of election, of course it does. But let's move on. Youth employment - a delicate and emerging issue in our country - finds citizenship in the Note exclusively in the use of turnover unlocking in public administrations. That's it? That doesn't seem very good to us. We come to the subject of pensions, an issue that we care about. The 100 was in our program, but we'd like to better understand what you mean when you talk about citizenship pension. If the intention is to raise to 780 euros the pension of those who today receive the social pension that amounts to little more than 400 euros, that's fine, but at the same time the minimum pensions must be increased to 1,000 euros. For us the differentiation is substantial, because those who receive the social pension have never paid a contribution, unlike the recipients of the minimums, who have always paid them. On disability and the elderly, we welcome the increase in the non-self-sufficiency fund, which has suffered many cuts over the years and which is in fact making the care management of the elderly very difficult. The same is true of the increase in the fund for the right to work for people with disabilities, which we hope will be substantial for the start of independent life projects and mentoring within companies employing people with disabilities. After the positive notes just described, however, we would have expected to find at least a hint to early workers, who will be penalized by 100. Not a word about after us, about caregivers within the Note. A note that says it wants to encourage the interventions on homelessness and then ignores these arguments loses credibility. In conclusion, the Document presented is clear that it is the result of the Government contract and therefore very mediated in order not to displease either of the two contractors, but will unfortunately disappoint many Italians. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u67	He's enlisted to speak Senator Paragon. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u68	Mr President, sometimes the books call us from the bookstore and that is how I found myself in these hours once again with "Lehman Trilogy" written by Stefano Massini. I recommend it, it's an interesting book, because it happens to come ten years from the failure of a paradigm, that paradigm whose echo is still reflected in these hours when we talk about spread, in which we return to remain the same lemmas that we had forgotten a little ten years ago. Yeah, because the world collapsed ten years ago, Lehman's failure is exactly in September ten years ago. That should be the lesson to understand that those who had predicted, seen, but also a little 'created that bubbon already knew everything, but pretended not to know. And who were the protagonists of that bubbon? They were the same people today who tell us that tragedy is planned. Everything was planned, but ten years ago they didn't tell it, because they still wanted to deceive the markets, those markets that today are back to being wretchedly protagonists. And they go back to being in the same groove as they were ten years ago, when people had estimated Lehman Brothers as a great product along with other business banks. He then failed Lehman Brothers, but the previous day Bank of America saved Merrill Lynch and a few hours later they were forced to save AIG, the insurance giant. Yet, all the rating agencies and all the army of professors and economists continued to say "It's okay, Madame the Marquise." Why bother? Well, the same people today tell us that perhaps tomorrow will be the tragedy, perhaps tomorrow. Let's comment today. Let's comment on the rubble that this system has seen collapse on and in some way suffer. The crisis we are experiencing is a financial crisis, not an economic crisis. And yesterday's deception is the same as today. It is the leverage and - it happens - today we should listen to those who failed yesterday, to those who said yesterday that finance in those business banks was too big to fail, it was too perfect a system to fail and instead fell on him. And it is that collapse that caused the crisis that we are facing today. That is why until now, ten years later, we have always witnessed the same dynamics as the financial maneuvers of the past had bet on austerity. Colleagues, as we read of concerns related to rating agencies or spreads, someone in this House will remember spreads that reached a lot more figures, but put away by the ECB, who bought, bought and bought, sheltering those who were pointing chips on a wrong game, that of austerity. We didn't grow up with austerity. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] And Europe must start to think about why we did not grow up. We must not do tasks, but only be alert to the growth of the real economy and the DEF that we are going to vote on bets on growth, taking the risk that someone else had taken on. I therefore call on colleagues in this House, but also on Europe to reflect on the financial dynamics that are still being proposed as a reference model. I also address my fellow journalists who comment without being able to predict, because sometimes they too have ventured into obviously wrong analyses, getting the schedule right on Mondays. I call on my fellow Members to reflect on the fact that all the debate they are creating has nothing to do with the real situation, it is always a projection of the future, but so far the predictions about the future have proved to be wrong. The country has already experienced the spread at 400, we have overcome it, but the cost of the ticket was high, because there was the ECB to protect, but today we no longer have this protection. Then it will be worth wondering if some protection will not have to come from Bankitalia, provided that it is still allied with the Italy system. Last consideration: the maneuver must look to the real economy. I come from a comparison with some workers, there are many and every day we deal with corporate crises. When the workers arrive on the roof, to complain and protest because someone is fired because he is not loyal to his employer - colleagues - it means that really the real economy and the worker no longer have dignity in our country and then I bet on the DEF in question. [[Applause from the M5S Group and L-SP-PSd'Az. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u69	He is enlisted to speak Senator Pharaoh. You have the right to do so. (Brusio).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u70	Mr President, there is an oil when I speak! [[Applause from the PD Group]] I believe that Senator Paragon will make a career in the Movimento 5 Stars, because the possibility of making a career in the Movimento 5 Stars is directly proportional to the number of corbellerias that shoot themselves. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Rizzotti.]] And this is so true that Cetto Di Maio Whatever is the political leader of the Movimento 5 Stars.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u71	Senator Pharaoh, I invite you to use appropriate language and address the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u72	FARAONE (PD). He's a contemporary comedian. I didn't think, however, they could go any further, neither Paragon, nor Maio La Qualunque. I thought it was impossible until the other day - for example - when I heard Toninelli's statements about the Brenner tunnel and the joke that was then created around that gaffe. Today I read on Twitter a joke - and I don't know if it's a real statement - that the bridge over the Strait was closed for weather alert. [[Applause from the PD Group]] PIRRO (M5S). President! FARAONE (PD). We have, however, exceeded the limit on this too. A short time ago, Minister Lezzi delighted us with the air conditioners and GDP and I thought this too was insurmountable. On the other hand, yesterday in the Health Commission I had the opportunity to listen to Mr Bertolazzi, who then went to the rescue of Senator Endrizzi, who answered the questions we asked, and that is how it is possible for you to include in the Update Note to the DEF all the voices on health, health and disability, providing the need for resources for recruitment, resources for updating the LEAs, for new competitions, for the law on disability, caregivers, autism and so on - the guide estimate is about 4 billion euros, if all the measures are implemented immediately - and after that the resources allocated to health and disability are no more than a few hundred million euros. We asked Bertolazzi how he plans to pay for all that is foreseen with the resources allocated, which, the scientist (who will always become minister for that theory that you shoot more, the more you go on) explained to us that with the income of citizenship, in fact, we contribute to financing health, because citizens will pay with that income also medical expenses. It seemed foolish to me, but at least it is expected to pay for medical expenses. No! Then Endrizzi intervened, who will become the new political leader of the Movimento 5 Stars, always for the aforementioned theory first explained, who explained to us that instead the income resources of citizenship will serve to make the citizens buy more meat, and therefore more protein and therefore will all be better. This is a fact that has really happened, which has been recorded in the Health Commission and I would ask you to read the relevant documents. Unfortunately, we didn't have the live TV and so we couldn't shoot the video, but this really happened. This is the way in which a maneuver is built that concerns the future of citizens. There are no actual resources. There are resources that are used only by taking money from the future of the new generations, and therefore debt, with the idea of transforming the Mezzogiorno into a retirement home, so that the League can continue to call us land. [[Applause from the PD Group]] They don't call us that just because they want our vows, but they think we're nothing to tip and then call ourselves terrons and nothingdoing. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] That's the maneuver you thought of. We believe that you are leading the country to failure and the new generations in the abyss. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u73	Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress - given that we have had the opportunity to listen to all the speeches, many of which perhaps do not take account of them - that the Update Note to the Economic and Financial Document is basically a programmatic framework. Before criticizing the measures, perhaps we should wait for them to be declined in the maneuver. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] 12:54 p.m. (ROMEO follow). First you will see the budget law and how it is written, and in the end you will be able to say whether you like it or not, what flat tax is, how it is drawn up, and what else. On the other hand, there is always a form of prejudice that we have also seen from other actors at European level, and not only. Compared to the past, we can say that, finally, we have a government that puts in the document of economy and finance a deficit / GDP ratio that, as far as it can be discussed, will be respected. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] In the past, in fact, there is always a ratio of 1.6 rather than 1.8; then ISTAT arrives at the end of the year and says that we are at 2.4. Better, then, be clear from the beginning and respect what you write in the documents, otherwise they seem rather artificial to let the maneuver pass and make it clear that everything is all right, except then, when you go to see the accounts, realize that things are a little different than the planned ones. We have made clear two key elements that accompany the update note: fiscal responsibility and growth stimulus, which are, of course, dictated by the following fact. If it is true that it is wrong to say that you have handed us a country to the disaster - it is not true, it would not be correct and it would not be absolutely fair - it is equally true that you cannot even say that you have handed us a country that was going well and recovering. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] If gross domestic product is the last of the European countries, it means that we are not at fault, but we are not even the first of the class; indeed, we are the last ones. This is precisely why we need discontinuity with the policies of the past, otherwise we always remain last, without even, among other things - as has been well recognised - really being able to reduce the public debt, which has grown by 280 billion over the last seven years. I say, so we all know. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] In short, we focus on growth, and then in fact there are bureaucratic and accountant organizations that reject the maneuver. Why? The forecasts are too optimistic. I do not know if they are too optimistic; in fact, in the Update Note it is written that we have used exactly one contrary criterion, namely the prudential one. Everyone says that investment, investment and investment must be made and that it is right, because that is the only way to increase growth. One wonders how to make investments because in the end the money is there, but in Italy it is difficult to spend it. Of course, if we do as in the past and focus our investments on new works to be carried out, you are right: in five years' time we will still be here and at the head - alas, I say - and on the other hand the Gross Domestic Product does not move by a comma. However, there is a novelty in this Update Note, that is that, unlike the past, investments will be focused mainly on the accommodation of the existing, which from a cultural point of view is something different. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Let us settle what is already there and that we have seen that, unfortunately, collapses day after day: even yesterday another bridge collapsed, and luckily there was no victim, but - unfortunately - this is the situation. Moreover, if the administrative surpluses of the municipalities are blocked, these are the results. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] This is what the municipalities cannot fix: roads, schools, bridges, and then the country deteriorates. By investing in this type and restructuring the existing one, I do not think that we need any special permits, all bureaucracy; it takes little. And, therefore, this means immediately putting energy into the field, so to speak positive: companies are already starting to work, gross domestic product is rising. The same thing is worth unlocking - for example - the administrative surpluses: there are also municipalities of 3,000, 4,000, 5,000 inhabitants who will have more than one million euros to spend. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] And what will they do? They will reconstruct the schools, fix the streets, the public gardens; there are many interventions to do. They will do those interventions that are necessary in many municipalities; of course, those who have leftovers; let us begin with those who - living God! - they have governed and administered well, since they have put some hay in the farmhouse, as in our parts they use to do when they have to administer and think about their family. It is not only investment, however, but also another subject that has perhaps been underestimated, even though it has been well addressed in the Commission: the issue of reducing IRES, for the profits that will be re-financed, and will be quite a few less points. This is the government's intent. What does it mean to have treasured past laws? For fairness, we remember - for example - the Tremonti law, which however set the economy in motion quite a bit, because the purchase of equipment and hiring indefinitely are mechanisms to move growth. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] This is another element that will change and ensure that the estimates of our Update Note are truly prudential, because we believe that the country will grow more than it has been written, and no less, as the technicians and bureaucrats want us to believe. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] But that is not all: as for the overcoming of the Fornero law - a measure that everyone claims does not favour growth, but rather weighs down the accounts - if it is true that a study shows that, for every person who retires early, it is possible to hire one or two young people, because in the end, however, the company would send out from the labour market a worker that costs a lot and could include one that costs much less, the fact of creating jobs is not a measure or a stimulus to growth? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Doesn't that mean having people who work, can spend and pay taxes? And didn't they come in for our country anymore? This suggests that it is not true that - as someone wrote - it will cost seven or eight - and the ballet of the figures was really mortifying, because everyone shot it big every day - but that it could really cost much less, because we will also have to contemplate all the revenue resulting from the fact that many young and qualified workers could enter our work system. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] We in the League would not want all these prejudiced rejections to be dictated by such a thought: Caspita, these here of the yellow-green government, tied up or populist-sovereignist - call it a bit 'as you want - who knows that they really can change the Fornero law and then maybe prove that the system stands the same? What's that supposed to mean? It means denying everything you've told us in the last seven years. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] This is the fear you have that you have made that law and voted it, and we know who voted that law. So let's try to stop them and make them go back. May it never be that these really make us understand that so many things that we have told were just stories that probably there is this fear, but we will show that instead the road is the right one, which leads to growth and constitutes a reversal of trend. We are also convinced - and we say this to the end - that, when the time comes and the maneuver comes, we will also be able to accept criticism of the type: We do not like the income of citizenship; there are no spaces for agriculture and health care. It is right: when there is a maneuver, we can say: "Less money than here; you haven't staked out there, because the political confrontation is this and the criticism is accepted on the content, as it is right that it is. Forgive me, though, but don't bring up the story - it was repeated before - of markets, spreads and more. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Otherwise - I say this for the benefit of all - if the market has to make the manoeuvre, then tomorrow morning we all go home, because it means that here we do not serve anything and we have been elected for nothing: this is the truth and we must understand it well. [[Applause from the L-Sp-PSd'Az, M5S and FdI Groups.]] Are we sure that, by giving everything to Moscovici, Juncker, the European Commission, the ECB, the International Monetary Fund, the Bank of Italy, will we really do the interests of Italian citizens? I do not believe in it at all and, indeed, I think it is right to respect the rules and to be in the legislation. There would be no more, because sovereignty belongs to the people in the forms and within the limits set by the Constitution, which says that the budget maneuver is ours. Hooray for us and certainly not our European partners! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Even for the history of public debt, it is said: we in Italy how can we speak since we have the worst public debt? We can't with the rules there are. Why are we obliged to respect certain rules and parameters? Are we sure that the public debt parameter is the only one that can dictate the state of health of a country? I'm not an economist. FARAONE (PD). And I can tell! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Our Alberto Bagnai is here. I do not want to steal the work from anyone, but I have read that some international observers and economists say that, if we go to examine the aggregate debt of the states - it means that it includes not only that of the State, but also that of the enterprises, of the families and the solidity of the banking system - Italy would be in the average and, instead, France, so damned, would be among the last places. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups and Senator Ruspandini]] Do we want to review these criteria once and for all? Then, it means that we will be able to spend and someone else, perhaps, will have to better respect the parameters. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups and Senator Ruspandini]] . Many congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Di Nicola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the citizens who follow us are concerned but also hopeful about what happens in this House where, without emphasis but with pride, I have no difficulty in saying that, for the first time, after too many years, an economic maneuver is put in place which, in the first place, sees their difficulties first. In other conditions we would have liked to do with great force what all the economic policy manuals teach and everything that is among the main aspirations of politicians like us, who, in this House today, we are dealing with such delicate issues: having adequate resources not only to help emergencies, but also to push the economy towards growth in a climate of general confidence, perhaps by splashing up those economic indices that banks and large investors look carefully when they have to invest in trust and resources in one country rather than another. I am proud this morning to welcome an economic maneuver that, for the first time, after many years, puts ideas and resources in the field to deal with the main problems of the country. In the election campaign we said we had great ambitions as a government to restore the country's economy and restore confidence to families. The Italians with great confidence voted for us, as no one could have hoped and hoped for, and we are here today to do what we promised the citizens, with the confidence and security, however, of those who have an eye attentive to public finances, compatibility and - why not - also respect for international treaties. However - as it happens to those who sincerely want to engage with the most important problems of a country in great difficulty, and Italy has experienced many and too many phases of this type - when authentically reformist forces arrive at the Government, it happens to these forces and those governments to be in the worst conditions. Let us be honest: the Italians expect so much from the political class - and especially from us for our commitments - but they now have the conscience, as we must all have even when we criticize this maneuver, that we are with the almost empty coffers. We have been given a country in which there are millions and millions of citizens below the poverty line and all this in one of the Western countries considered more developed. We are talking about millions of citizens below the poverty line; families that no longer manage to get their children to study; young people who no longer manage to study or who, after studying, have to emigrate because there are no resources. Whose fault is this? It is a historical responsibility and should remember who today too easily, after having governed the country, allows himself to criticize forgetting what he did, not a century ago, but only in recent years to reduce us in this situation. That is why I say that the economic maneuver in question must be proudly claimed by the majority of the Government and must reach the citizens even with the right tale. From this point of view, the tones used in this House to criticize it are important, just as the media is important. I have a deep respect for commentators, journalists, all newspapers and all television. In my life I have been a journalist and I know how valuable the good of independence is, especially because we are in a country where today those who put on a tie with a white shirt - and there are many, even in this House - when they work as politician constantly put their feet at the head of freedom of the press. Hence I call on the whole media system to exercise maximum freedom of criticism, but remembering that it would be important to always look at data and figures without preconceived positions. We don't want journalists friends. We only want good journalism in Italy and an objective story of what happens in this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is essential then that there is a fair and objective story of what we are doing because, in the face of the disastrous situation we are facing at this moment, which is the legacy that an entire generation of politicians and above all the last Governments have handed us over, we put in place a maneuver that has the ambition to put hand and face the two emergencies of the country. First of all, there is the social emergency, and I do not want to repeat myself about poverty and the disastrous situation of millions of citizens who literally no longer have the means to live. We do this by putting in place the income of citizenship that is not an act of adventure, but it is only the minimum measure that a supportive Parliament owes at this moment to the citizens who listen to us and who do not know how to arrive at the end of the evening [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We put in place a so-called citizenship pension measure that leads to a minimum income, that of the poverty line, the so-called minimum pensions. This intervention will certainly not undermine the state's accounts - as you all know - but it is an elementary act of solidarity that a political class in great debt to this country owes to all its citizens. Senator Monti - I am pleased that you follow my speech carefully - will be with me in saying that citizenship pensions at EUR 780 will certainly not break the state's accounts. However, there is another fundamental point that we find in the document of economy and finance. I am referring to the desire, the desire to push and re-launch the economy at this stage, only for what we can, for the miserable resources that the last governments have left us, in an attempt to restart a virtuous circle that I hope will allow us to use the resources necessary to push the driving sectors of the economy. There are 15 billion and I have to claim as a great treasure the fact that this government sets in place in the three-year period 15 billion to revive public investment. And you all know - and I certainly must not repeat this - that, at times when economies are depressed, public investment is the one that makes the agonizing economies start again. You have only left us the opportunity to invest 15 billion, but we claim them as a treasure because, beyond the figures, they are a precise signal of a reversal of economic policies that, for the first time in Italy, try to give a perspective of growth to the country's economy. We are skipping - and from this point of view I can say with certainty that the bureaucratic structures of the Ministries do not help us - the accounts of the State, in order to go to find also the tens of millions posted in parasitic sectors for expenses that do not serve this country to enter them in the virtuous cycle of investments. I am beginning to conclude, Mr President, by recalling also the effort we are making to unlock a genuine treasure made up of those 150 billion nested in the meanders of public administration, the result of the stability pact, of all the shepherdings imposed on local administrations in recent years, to pull out also from there the resources necessary for the other emergencies that you have damnedly left us. With that money, I hope and I'm sure that public administrations and local authorities will help us put our hands on all the other emergencies you've left us. I am referring to seismic emergencies, with 90% of the schools in this country shamefully lacking the necessary security requirements, which - translated all in simple terms - means that the previous governments at this time put families in a desperate condition to send their children to schools with the risk that the roofs, in case of earthquake (but not only), will rain in their heads. These are the two objectives of the maneuver. These are clear objectives, which also contain the message that this majority and this Government, with great tranquility, launch to the citizens and to the so-called European markets and institutions, because they are a sign of great confidence for our country: we face the emergencies of poverty and invest resources to push the economy and consumption. And, when I talk about driving consumption - ladies and gentlemen - I am also referring to consumption that will be stimulated by the money spent by families today in conditions of extreme poverty, which will receive citizenship income and citizenship pensions. That's why I say, and see how quietly I do it...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u76	Conclude, Senator Di Nicola.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u77	MIRABELLI (PD). It's a little too much! DI NICOLA (M5S). I shall conclude, Mr President. I do not believe, for the things said, that there is more to be alarmed than that, nor can the concern of the Parliamentary Budget Office be put forward. We're quiet and the state accounts are safe. From here begins an ambitious message for the future of the country, but also of extreme tranquility for those who listen to us and must allocate their resources, which are personal savings or deposits of savers. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u78	Senator Pichetto Fratin is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, may I first of all observe a contradiction. There was a great debate in this House some time ago about the decree of dignity. In that decree-law they put to the index the game and the bets; well, now everything bets on the bet that the Italian gross domestic product can grow beyond the most optimistic forecasts. None of the national and international institutions have growth estimates such as those included in this Update Note of the Economic and Financial Document. Moreover, more optimistic growth forecasts are reviewed in the presence of an international framework in sharp deterioration, which had led to a downward revision by this Government of the forecasts to current legislation; the trend has been corrected in negative and not in positive. The progression of programmed gross domestic product, if this were to happen, could lead to around 2,000 billion Italian gross domestic product in 2022. In fact, it is increased to 1,816 billion in 2019, 1.5% and 6.6 billion more than the trend value (a first year considered by the prudent majority); then it becomes 1,887 in 2020, with 1.6% more and 20 billion more. The programming cycle even closes with a more 1.4% (equivalent to 30.7 billion euros) in 2021, thus bringing gross domestic product to 1,946 billions, so close to 2,000 billions. On the basis of these estimates, it also improves the debt-to-GDP ratio. The debt continues to grow with the same dynamics of the past, but - perhaps - even greater, given the spread of these days and, therefore, the difficult relationship of trust that the country must conquer instead. The return of the deficit to the European target has obviously slowed down, based on at least half of the manoeuvre on higher debt. The government is all about growth, because only an increase in the denominator can bring the debt-to-GDP ratio back to acceptable parameters. It is certain that, as has been said in several speeches by both majority and opposition, in recent years Italy has recorded growth values of about two thirds of the average of European growth. Therefore, we are in a very distant condition from the values of growth of the countries that are the first in Europe and to which our companies have nothing to envy and with which they are in full competition. Recovering this gap in growth would be a desirable fact for everyone, including us, who are responsible opposition. This is our wish to Italy, before the government. What we are wondering is whether the measures announced are adequate to trigger a genuine shock in growth, which none of the multipliers that can be used can at the moment suggest. In fact, there is no significant reduction in the tax burden on inputs. A major tax reform would have been - this yes - a structural intervention to trigger greater development. Growth should come first of all from spending measures, let me say welfare measures, but not in a denigratory sense, such as those planned for citizenship income and pensions, through the increase in the minimum and the introduction of quota 100. Certainly it will not be these two measures that trigger major increases in GDP, although they are considered important by us and we will discuss and analyse the substance when they are presented. Economic literature and practice teach us that - alas - in history they have always had quite low multipliers, even if these two measures have characteristics of social equity that we certainly agree with and recognize. However, we must distinguish between starting work and assisting all those who live on the margins, which we must recognise. Growth could be triggered by provisions in derogation from the myriad of constraints that hinder the use of European funds (I would like to mention the more than 50 billion of the 2014-2020 programming, concerning investments, which are firm in this country), or by way of derogation from the plethora of rules and quirks that bind investments on infrastructure despite the appropriations are already foreseen. We are talking about EUR 100 billion, so a figure well above the EUR 15 billion over the three-year period mentioned in some of the speeches. I welcome the addition of 15 billion over the three years, but I believe that the government must unlock and invest the 100 billion already allocated. A number of majority speeches seemed to me to be more opposition. I have a few questions to ask about that. Are we sure that a government in which the majority shareholder has so far expressed itself in harmony with No TAV, No TAP, No Grunda, No Third Pass (if you can add more), can now take off investment and infrastructure, big bet for growth? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Are we sure that those who have so far agitated the handcuffs can admit procedures that speed up the steps to carry out public works? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] These are questions that I ask you, hoping for a positive answer, for the good of our country, because conversions are always welcome. Of course, if the other shareholder of the League in this Government were Forza Italia, we would have no doubt that the investments, especially in infrastructure, would have started and would have been supported all. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And I would like to remind you that when the Berlusconi Government faced the terrible emergency of the Eagle earthquake, it adopted urgent measures, decrees of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers that saw a rapid reconstruction carried out, regardless of whether it likes or does not like the result. Now, the so-called Genoa decree does not seem to create the same conditions. By way of derogation, it follows a list of rules, but in essence everything remains firm, because in recent years the procurement code has also been weighed down. As it is now announced, this maneuver triggers a growth linked to investments that - alas - we do not see, that are not there. We believe that a move aimed at growth would be credible if it were proposed by a government in which there was a much less state-owned party and a little less pseudo-environmentalist. It is a Movement that says so many things that people like, but whose ideological contradictions are so many that they cannot solve any of the problems even in the cities that govern. Let's look at the case of Roma Capitale: after two years it is emblematic, only the transfer service works. Look at Turin on the path of happy decline, factory of unemployed. We, of course, very much hope that we are wrong and that there will be growth that is desired. In our resolution there are many hopeful, hopeful and hopeful points which we hope will be welcomed. Never forget one thing: that we support, always and anyway for Italy. We are also called Forza Italia. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u80	Senator Catalfo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government with the Update Note to the DEF takes the first step towards an important renewal of our country; it does so starting from the protection of the weakest and most affected citizens by the crisis and the stop to the austerity policies put in place by previous governments. At the same time, concrete growth measures are undertaken, promotion of start-ups, support for youth entrepreneurship, promotion of the internationalisation of Italian companies, strengthening of the venture capital of the Enterprise 4.0 plan, promotion of technological innovation and protection of small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, two important measures are being taken to support workers and families: the income of citizenship and the share of 100. These are two measures of legal civilisation that help the weakest citizens. The income of citizenship helps those who find themselves, because of the crisis, in condition of social marginality and, at the same time, allows to support and revive the economy through consumption. Share 100 is a measure that allows generational replacement by freeing up jobs, thus guaranteeing the entry into the labour market of young, skilled workers with a high propensity to innovate. We have overcome the rigidity that the Fornero law had introduced, surpassing a rigid and penalising pension system for workers. After years of strenuous struggles, finally the implementation of citizenship income is a reality thanks to the tenacity, coherence and commitment of our Movement. The income of citizenship does not consist - to clarify it to colleagues - in a monetary supply of EUR 780 to the individual, but is a proactive measure of reintegration into the world of work involving the whole family. It is not a question of giving unconditional aid, but of giving proper aid in exchange for a real and active commitment to social reintegration and job search. Training, community work, active job search: these are the three pillars on which the benefit is built and bound. This is precisely why the reform of employment centres is closely linked to it, which will be greatly strengthened and reorganised, both in terms of human resources and in terms of technological infrastructure. Employment centres must become the main channel for matching labour supply and demand. In order for this to happen, all existing databases must be interlocked and interconnected. Employment centres are the first step towards the digitisation of all public administrations, which must operate synergistically, facilitating citizens and simplifying bureaucratic practices and procedures. Precisely for this innovative technologies, such as blockchain, will play a decisive role in the renewal and digitalization of our country. The programme set out in the Update Note to the DEF also pays particular attention to those who, while receiving a pension, are still below the relative poverty threshold. They are mainly women and precarious workers who have had a discontinuous career. The measure introduced by the Government consists of an integration of the pension received, until it reaches 780 euros for the individual. It is a concrete aid that will allow to restore the dignity of thousands of Italian citizens. Finally, Mr President, I should like to make some comments. I listened very carefully to the speeches in this House and it seemed to me very strange to listen to speeches that were going to recall the Italian Constitution, but speaking only and exclusively of an article, namely Article 81. I would remind all of us and this House that there are fundamental principles that are included in the Italian Constitution: from Article 2, Article 3 and Article 36, which are the subject of our reforms and what the Government, this Government, has included in the DEF. These are our intentions. I would then like to reflect with my colleagues and think that perhaps it is appropriate to put for the first time at the heart of government policy and of all Members present, as representatives of Italian citizens, the articles that protect and make the life of Italian citizens dignified. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] There was talk of the Mezzogiorno, always with a view to constructive dialogue. I come from the Mezzogiorno and I would like to remind this House and those who previously ruled us that the Mezzogiorno was quite forgotten. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And I would like to remind you, when it comes to contributory reductions and aid to the Mezzogiorno, that the jobs act in our opinion has little impact on real employment in Italy, if not on unemployment figures; if we are among the countries with the lowest wages in Europe and if the poverty line and the number of poor families still increases, it is clear that the employment figure must be looked at in its entirety. I would also like to remind everyone in this House, and who knows, that the jobs act was financed by abolishing a contributory relief which was intended for entrepreneurs in the Mezzogiorno, which was a structural measure, not subject to Article 81 of the Constitution and to a balanced budget: I am talking about Law No 407 of 1990. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] We have a vision that is not partial, but complete. We have already put an end to precariousness with the decree of dignity and we have begun to help companies. We will now invest, because when we talk about the reform of employment centres, that is an investment that is made on citizens, on public administration, it is an investment that Countries such as Germany, France, Spain and Portugal have already implemented. These are the investments for the country. We are told that they do not know what the League and the Movimento 5 Stars share. I wrote the answer: we share the great closeness with the territory, the bond with the citizens and their needs, the respect of the commitments made and the will to change the country. This unites us. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] With consistency and with all our commitment, therefore, we will continue the reforms planned. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u82	The debate is closed. I communicate to the Assembly that the Presidency has received, on the report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012, the motion for a resolution No 100, tabled by Senators Patuanelli and Romeo. The Presidency also received motions for resolutions No 1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, No 2, tabled by Senator Marcucci and other Senators, No 3, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other Senators, No 4, tabled by Senator Bernini and other Senators, No 5, tabled by Senators Romeo and Patuanelli. The lyrics are in distribution. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u83	Mr President, members of the Government, Senators and Senators, I shall confine myself to a brief reply, not being able to enter into the substance of all the speeches made by my colleagues and colleagues, whom I have listened very carefully, noting negative points but also positive points. Of course, I'll replicate the negative ones. The concepts that have been expressed relate almost all to the concern that this NADEF may not achieve the desired effect, but at the same time I have been able to read among the interventions a sense of necessity that one must change step and that many of the aspects touched on by this NADEF, that is the support to those who came out of the work circuit or did not enter (with the income of citizenship), the support to the generational change with the overcoming of the law Fornero, the intentions and the amounts decided by the Government regarding the investments are all objectives shared from almost entire parliamentary arc, in forms and times certainly different but shared. Other concerns raised by the debate both in this House and in the Budget Committee concern the timing of the benefits of this move. It has been said that twelve links are too many and will not be able to implement them in just a few months, but I want to stress that all these are actions that put us back in line with the rest of Europe and therefore must continue and we can only act on this track, since the maneuvers carried out in recent years have only made us grow by poor percentage points close to unity. Concerns have been expressed that investments may not unfold with the right times due to the high bureaucracy, but in NADEF actions are planned precisely to simplify and reduce bureaucracy and to create directing booths to speed up the processes (just yesterday was held the first meeting at Palazzo Chigi). With regard to the South, the fact that it is not practically mentioned in the maneuver, I am from Bari and at this point I cannot escape from replying (I am sorry that Senator Bellanova is absent). We are pleased that the attention to the Mezzogiorno and the invitation to territorial cohesion come from a representative elected in Emilia-Romagna and I remember that we have a Minister for the South who comes from the land of Lecce (which is also the land of Senator Bellanova), and there is no need to indicate specific measures in maneuver, because the Minister is actively working with all the presidents of the Region precisely to ensure that the cohesion funds spent in these years in an inefficient way (let us remember the projects shore), but above all those not spent can be used effectively and efficiently, in order to give an effective relaunch to the South. It has been said that it will not be possible to sell the real estate of the State for the amount entered to the extent that it has never been possible in the past. But while it is true that the history of the past indicates the way, we must think about the future differently and it is not said that, since it has not been possible in the past, this must also be true for the future. It is quite clear that this Government does not intend to dispose of the assets: it intends to sell the properties that no longer serve the State; it therefore does not intend to do favors to anyone. If we continue to look back, Italy will not recover and we, but all of us, not only this majority, will be condemned to be mere witnesses of the decline without being able to do anything, instead we are here precisely to give life to change. It has been said that the maneuver weakens the credibility of the country because the forecast framework has not been shared by Istat, Court of Auditors, Bank of Italy and has not been validated by the UPB. On the contrary, however, we must think that precisely because this maneuver is completely different from the previous maneuvers (which have brought us - I would like to remind you - exactly where we are, with the result of March 4), the markets, especially the foreign ones, will approve it because they will realize that Italy has decided to change step, to make that change that is also the trademark of the Government. The President-in-Office of the Council and the Ministers began to meet institutions and operators in foreign markets precisely to illustrate the manoeuvre, because only numbers sometimes fail to make the scope of the changes well. Someone said this government doesn't have a drawing. Instead, I believe that in NADEF is well outlined the design that can change the fate of Italy. This maneuver is expansive and not austerity like the previous ones. It is therefore understandable that colleagues, many of whom have been present in this House by more legislation, who are accustomed to other types of maneuvering, may feel uncomfortable about accepting such a great deal of change and feel pressure on the possibility that these changes, which they share, may not come about. The same discomfort is felt by the various bodies that have not expressed themselves positively on the maneuver because they are accustomed to analyzing recessive maneuvers and because the models used tend to give too much precedence to the prudence, with the risk also to break down the positive parts present in the maneuvers. I would like to point out that all the assessments made in recent years by the bodies expressing their opinion on maneuvers have never focused on the objective. With regard to the overcoming of the so-called Fornero law, I would like to remind the senators present that the estimates for the jobs generated by Enterprise 4.0 for Italy foresee a loss of 200,000 jobs, offset by 200,000 new jobs, with new skills; therefore zero balance, but different skills and needs. And that is the only reason why we should be positive about this measure. When it comes to blocking investment, I would like to remind you that, on the other hand, in NADEF we are talking about wanting to unblock those investments that have not been made in the past and when reference is being made to the fact that the Minister of Infrastructure is in fact blocking investment, I would like to remind you, firstly, that shortly the Minister will receive a dossier on the analysis he had requested on the works, so as to define what to proceed on and at what times; secondly, given what was discovered after the tragedy of the collapse of the Morandi bridge, namely the high profits secured to the concessionaire, I believe that the Minister is doing well, for the interest of all Italians, to verify that similar things do not happen in other areas for works followed by his Ministry. If it is true, as Mr Battistoni said, that good intentions have paved the way to hell, I would say that unfortunately we have been on this road for some time now. It is time to build a new road and if the first stone was laid on March 4th, this NADEF is the way of building a new route to Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] When Senator D'Arienzo, Senator of the current opposition that ruled the country in the last five years, accuses us not to have put an extra euro in addition to what already allocated on investments, but to use those of the previous Government, before making this statement he wondered why the previous Government was not able to spend them? He unintentionally certified that the Government of the Democratic Party was unable to make the investments for which it had allocated resources. I believe that Senator Romeo has responded effectively to this point. Senator Bonino, who I regret is not present, said that there is no investment scent - only 0.2 percent - and that everything or almost is financed with debt and therefore the solution would be to make all investments; but in the meantime that start investments, the people who should work and live, must arrange? We are one of the very few countries in Europe that does not have an instrument like citizenship income. Are all the other countries wrong or have those who have ruled us so far been wrong? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Senator Misses, the issue of multiplier is discussed between UPB and Minister Tria, we will see in time who is right. In the meantime, however, I would like to point out that the multiplier for citizenship income is high because it is true that it is transfers to families but they are technically families with high propensity to consume, and I translate for those who listen to us from home: they are families that have practically nothing have no propensity to save and will spend the money received for the goods needed to live, so that money will return immediately - and everyone - to the circuit, feeding a virtuous circle of demand-income-employment. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In conclusion, I understand the concerns of my fellow Members: understandable but not acceptable. We all, all of us, have been chosen by the Italians to change the fate of the country and it is time to do so with a maneuver that will allow us to recover the competitiveness and the position that Italy deserves in Europe and in the world. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u84	I call the representative of the Government, Mr Garavaglia, to whom I would ask him to give his opinion on the motion for a resolution submitted to the report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012, and to indicate which motion for a resolution he intends to accept.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u85	Mr President, the Government intends to accept motion for a resolution No 100 for the purpose of the report to Parliament by Senators Patuanelli and Romeo, as well as the motion for a resolution on Update Note No 5 tabled by Senators Romeo and Patuanelli. COLLINA (PD). What about the replica? Mr Garavaglia, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. I can replicate if you like. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to do what you think is right. COLLINA (PD). Say something! We've been here all morning to hear from the government. Mr Garavaglia, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. We too have been here all morning, so I gladly repeat, taking into account the times.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u86	Excuse me, Undersecretary, since the Government has stated that it accepts motion for a resolution No 5, signed by Senators Romeo and Patuanelli, the 30-minute deadline for tabling any amendments referred to it starts from this moment. You're welcome, Undersecretary Garavaglia.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u87	Mr President, I have only one specific answer to Senator Durnwalder on the subject of self-government. The theme of the autonomy is not discussed because the novelty is that we do not want to deal with this theme, in the sense that we do not want to affect the autonomy of the Regions with special statute, so much so that we want to extend autonomy by proceeding in the differentiated autonomy on a path that has already been started in some realities. Without this precise clarification, I give some answers to a number of questions that have been raised by several senators and senators. The key point is growth, GDP. Why are we twenty - seven out of 27 punctually? In the last few years we are always last, 27th out of 27. In ten years we have lost 4.2 percent while the European average is +5.8, so 10 points lost in ten years compared to the European average. Why? The question has a complex answer and is part of some of the main measures that have been proposed in the Update Note which will then become the subject of a precise text in the Budget Act. The first issue we are dealing with is citizenship income, which is so controversial but necessary. The very fact that it had already been thought to start introducing something that went in the direction of supporting the income of families in greatest difficulty makes it clear that the problem is: the number of poor in Italy has exploded since 2012 onwards, this is a fact, and therefore it is opportune to address the issue. But there is the other half of the moon that concerns active labour policies. Today we have a system of employment centres which is basically a centre for the employment of those working in the employment centre. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Let's do something. But in doing something we also go to see what already exists. I know the Lombard reality because I come from there, for the last five years I was there. In Lombardy, more than 100,000 young people start work each year. This figure can also be improved, but there are more than 100,000 young people on their way to work. It will be said that that is the Lombardy Region. Perfect, but we have Regions where we are at zero: from 100,000 to zero it is evident that something can and must be done. Therefore, to intervene in order to put on track a system of active policies of serious work that leads our young people to find an activity is sacrosanct and necessary. This is a fundamental point, an aspect that creates development and growth. It is an incontrovertible theme. Incidentally, to the Senator Patriarch who asked for figures on social funds, I would point out that the total amount of social funds envisaged is worth about €1.3-1.4 billion. Too bad that the cuts to the Regions are 2.5 billion, so to date what goes into the social funds is zero because the 1.3-1.4 billion is completely zeroed and absorbed by the cuts that are worth 2.5 billion. Since we are not responsible, we are activating and I think that in the next few days we will find a solution to zero these cuts, so give the chance to move forward. Let us remember, however, that to date they have been reset by imposing a cut far greater than the total transfers of the Regions. Another issue is investment: much has been said about stimulating investment and the amount of investment. This is an additional 0.2 percent: well, but the real point is because the budget is not spent. Only on two parts of the budget law there are 118 billion euros from here to 2030: an imposing figure; counting other funds you get to 150 billion euros. Last year, zero was spent, not even one euro. So we ask ourselves: why is it not spent in Italy? Why has investment spending been blocked, which is why we are at 27th place? There are several accounting issues, of an organizational nature, there is also institutional chaos. As for the accounting aspect, with a circular made by the State Accounting last week we finally unlocked the leftovers of administration of the Italian Municipalities: with a circular. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] You will say: yes, but against a judgment of the Constitutional Court that amended a law. Of course, a law that we proudly did not vote for because we knew it was wrong. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] So the circular goes to solve a mistake made, unfortunately, and I say unfortunately because this over the years has blocked so many small investments. And who makes direct investments in the territory? Local and regional authorities, municipalities and the much-distracted Provinces. Well, with a circular, the leftovers are fine. That's it? No, there are so many other issues that we will have to deal with: the credit fund of doubtful eligibility, for example. Incidentally, fiscal peace also resolves a piece of this because it cleans up a large part of the budgets of the municipalities that are blocked by arrears that will never enter. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Then there is the organizational aspect: who does the procurement materially and why do not public works contracts? There is no procurement because we are also able to complicate and worsen the European directives, which are not always good news of them. With the procurement code we have managed to make a masterpiece by putting in place a system for which the designer takes the race and it takes six months, then we race for the company and it takes another six months; if there is no appeal and the agency does not have a lawyer or someone who can handle the litigation, otherwise it takes a year and a half or two to fix the roof of the school where it rains. Well, that's impossible to handle. So there are two issues to consider, the first of which concerns specific interventions on the code. Did the doctor order us to have a threshold of 40,000 euros when some jobs in Europe go quietly above 200,000? With a threshold above 200,000 euros many small jobs, such as the school that has a hole in the roof, can be quickly set up without triggering that procedure that takes a year and a half of time. Sometimes, however, that procedure must be activated, and even in this case a minimum of organization is enough So far who has done the procurement on the roads in this country? The Provinces. Well, the Provinces are there, let's use them: they can be well used as a contracting station for all the Municipalities that come into their territory (so solving the problem of all the Municipalities that insist on the same Province). A set of small organizational solutions and some timely regulatory changes, therefore, allow us to start unlocking these funds - alive god - that are being set up today, but not spent (as history shows us). This is the real challenge and we are working hard here. I have given some examples, but it does not end here: it is true that a cost-benefit analysis of the works must be done, but rightly so in a short time. Just to understand us, where I live there is a road that must connect the city of Vigevano with Malpensa: today we make the bridge over the Ticino, but, once realized, we will not be able to miss the road, otherwise the cost-benefit analysis makes it the Gabibbo (and it ended there); so let's try to be a little smart on these things. But there are not only public investment, but also private investment, on which we must do everything to aim and accelerate them. A very important measure, namely the reduction of IRES by nine points, from 24 to 15 percent, is foreseen in the Update Note and the maneuvering process. What does such a reduction in corporate tax mean? It means moving from the highest level of corporate income taxation in Europe to the lowest: a radical change. In return, what do we ask companies to do in the face of this large nine-point cut? To invest and hire, that is to do what is necessary for the development of the country. Sounds like a reasonable request to us. It is a structural measure, thanks to which - unlike the many others, excellent, that exist - for the entrepreneur there will be no doubt about the presence or not of the bonus in the budget law, because the tax regime changes: simply, he will keep his money and instead of 24 will pay 15%, provided he invests and hires. These are some examples of those aspects of the maneuver that foresee development and that, in our opinion, will lead us to no longer be the twenty-sevenths out of 27. It is not possible, in fact, that our entrepreneurs have all gone crazy and our citizens have become incapable of making GDP: 27th out of 27 is not the place of Italy. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u88	To sum up, the Government has accepted motion for resolution No 5, relating to the Update Note to the 2018 Economy and Finance Document. We have therefore decided that the deadline for tabling amendments will expire at 2.20 p.m. In order to organize our work, having decided at the Conference of the Leaders that the votes would not take place before 5.30 p.m., I would propose that the House resume the sitting at 4.30 p.m., take explanations of vote, proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 100 and the amendments tabled to motion for a resolution No 5 and, finally, to the final vote. If there are no comments, this remains the case. I therefore suspend the sitting until 4.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 14.02 p.m. and resumed at 16.31 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u91	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, we have read the update note carefully. There are so many commitments and good intentions that are difficult to share: security resources, new recruitment for law enforcement, investment in justice, lowering the tax burden, social and pension resources. Everything is beautiful, except that one thing is desires and another is reality, because unfortunately we all know that there are no resources for most of your proposals and the solution cannot be to increase the expenses of a country already overwhelmed by debts. Your theory of deficit spending and impulse to internal demand will not work unless a number of other issues are resolved first. It served and needed, then, a plan for bureaucratic simplification, we need faster justice, we need to improve the productivity of companies at equal costs, we need a plan to promote private investment, we need measures to reduce the cost of labour indefinitely. If this is really a legislature government, which therefore looks beyond the European elections, at this stage it was necessary to put at the centre measures aimed at modernising the system and overcoming structural gaps in relation to the entrepreneurial and productive fabric of the other advanced economies, which are then the fundamental reasons for the low growth of Italy. Here, instead, we make a distribution of resources through new debt, according to the theory that this will increase GDP. Your predictions are inadequate and it is useless to mock professors of economy and state accountants or to say that you don't care about the spread. This way of doing and communicating does not create trust, but helps to destabilize and people's insecurity is the biggest disincentive to spend, consume and invest. Insecurity will increase when they realize that the measures you are telling do not correspond to the reality of the facts, because you call it flat tax, but in truth it is an increase in the turnover ceilings for VAT consignments under the flat rate scheme. You call it citizenship income, but it is a grant for access to basic necessities for some specific and reduced categories of people in difficulty. This subsidy is nothing spectacular and already exists in most European states and in South Tyrol. In those countries the subsidy exists without the state deciding what citizens can buy and what not. Then the threat of six years in prison is really an absurd proposition. Do you really want to introduce a new crime on the immoral use of aid? My colleague, Mrs Bellanova, is right when she speaks of pardon for the rich and imprisonment for the poor. You call it fiscal peace, as if to say that there is a war going on between citizens and the treasury, but it would be better to call it a victory of the smartest on the skin of honests, of those who pay taxes and respect the rules, even at the cost of great sacrifices. I say this above all to the Five Stars, who of honesty have made the fundamental reason for their political commitment. Let's put ourselves in the shoes of a merchant who has always paid for everything and who knows that his competitor got away with a safe conduct. Do you tell me what the word honesty will mean to him from today? We are also wondering what it means to activate the so-called expenditure clause in the event of growth that does not meet the objectives set. What expenses would be cut? Capital or current expenditure? So the measures you introduce could be revoked? Who benefits from the 100 quota today could be called back to work? I mean, everything seems very vague. Moreover, compared to the recent past, we move in a more difficult framework: the raising of trade barriers, the end of the ECB's support measures, the unknowns linked to international political stability. In such a context, a deficit maneuver becomes even more risky and a 2.4% maneuver takes on the contours of gambling. It is a gamble and it is useless to ask the Italians for help, if in the meantime the millions of investors that make up the market are already saying that our debt is not trusted. I mean, I don't think the markets will love Italy, as Vice President Di Maio said. Just as it will not help to continue to blame Europe, the various national and international bodies, who are only telling the country not to frustrate the sacrifices made in all these years to get out of the crisis. Because, in the end, they will pay again for the younger generations and the less well-off classes. When it comes to action, the Government of Change is not as skilled as with words. The incredible management of the emergency in Genoa is under everyone's eyes. And so, other than the cancellation of poverty, but a written maneuver with the pen of the immediate electoral gain. That is why, Mr President, I am voting against our Group. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u94	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, as you know, we in Liberi and Equal certainly cannot be counted among the vestals and guardians of the parameters of European rigour. In all these years, with consistency, we have carried out paths, proposals that would question the fiscal compact and those same parameters. So, after the rhetoric and all the effective phrases that have been heard in these days in the discussion on the Update Note, I think we have to go to the substance of this maneuver. This could certainly be an update note to the DEF of change and even radical change, but - I tell you once again - do you really think so? The policies of austerity and recession have caused twenty years of stagnation, particularly in Italy (I would like to remind you that today the average income per capita of Italians is the same as eighteen years ago), with which 80% of our fellow citizens have seen their income decrease and their living conditions worsen, while 20% richer has seen their situation improve; they are those policies that have explained to us that privatisations, cuts in social expenditure and social security, the flexibility of work and that all this would bring and favor growth, instead have produced not only stagnation and recession, but also a frightening increase of inequalities, which for us is the amount with which to look at the reality of our country. Well, with this maneuver - I say this and I go to the substance, because the node is to understand if there is a reversal of trend - we do not see a substantial change of course. The maneuver is presented as expansive and redistributive and certainly some measures are acceptable: let's think of the so-called 100 quota (then we will see, on the merits, how it will be articulated because every day the ideas change), the minimum pensions at 780 euros and the income of citizenship. As far as we are concerned, we were among the first in this House, even in the last parliamentary term, to present a bill on guaranteed minimum income as a universalist measure. However, even in this area we are saying a little strange things and everything seems less than income from citizenship. These measures are certainly acceptable, but - alas - they are characterized by confusion, uncertainty and even subterfuge attempts, as a clear result over the last few days and weeks. These measures are certainly not capable of producing the effect of 1.5% growth, which is the target that you set for 2019. Also, what is the counterattack to these measures? How are they - adversely in our view - compensated? On the fiscal level we move completely in line with the establishment of those neoliberal and regressive policies that I mentioned at the beginning, starting with flat tax. The application now takes place for VAT numbers, but this is an announcement, the one on the two rates. There is nothing more regressive and it is the opposite of what it would take to attack, even on the fiscal side, the issue of inequalities. In fact, as my colleague, Mr Laforgia, rightly explained this morning, we would need a very strong injection of policies of progressiveness to overcome the element of injustice in the tax system. But instead you talk about fiscal peace and forgiveness: is this the novelty? I don't know how many condones have been made anymore. The tax concessions, in various forms, have been the other side of the policies that have led us to the current situation and to such a level of inequality. Therefore, it is precisely the opposite of a reorientation of the tax system towards greater progressiveness. Attacking the issue of inequalities and finding resources meant having the courage to put hand in the taxation of large assets, but not only there is no trace of this, but ideologically there is nothing in your approach. But do you really think that to make an expansionary and redistributive policy only the measures of the so-called 100 quota and the income of citizenship are sufficient? Every day - even yesterday, during the hearing of Minister Tria - it becomes increasingly evident that to find the covers will require painful cuts and perhaps also new taxes and we speak of 6,9 billion euros. In fact, what you find with the pardon is one-off, as is what you plan to find with the so-called tax peace (more than 8 billion euros). As far as we are concerned, the point - and I come back to the substance - is by no means the figure of 2.4 percent, which is a condition that we consider necessary and which has in itself a sensible horizon and which, to be honest, is also in line with what happened previously. The problem is the lack of structural policies not only in the area of public investment - which I will then return to - but also in policies that can actually be a counter-trend and a return to the weight and investment of the state in the economy. Colleagues, to be convincing, expenses outside the parameters must firmly focus on these structural policies and public investment, and this in the maneuver is mentioned: do you really think that 0.2 is that injection, the shock that would be needed to restart the economy? In addition, one more thing is needed to support, even in Europe, staying out of the parameters, because in order to support the confrontation with the European institutions and the deflatorist ideology of the European leadership groups, we need to have an idea of alliances. And what kind of alliances do you have? You are also preparing for the European elections: the alliances with the Visegrad countries? See that the Visegrad countries in economic policy have the same neoliberal idea, so this will not guarantee at all that the paradigm can be changed. Instead, in order to make the operation of really questioning the fiscal compact and the policies of rigour, we need a system of alliances: perhaps we had to think of alliances, when we face a confrontation, for example, with all the countries that have suffered most those policies of rigor. Let's go back to public investment: 0.2%. They are very little compared to needs. Today, in his reply, undersecretary Garavaglia - as well as the parent Romeo - said: so much we will be able to unlock the investments and resources that previous governments had not been able to invest. But do you really think that you will be able to reach that 1.5% growth by retouching the procurement code, perhaps by widening the sectors of private negotiation and direct trusts, in just a few months? I really don't know if you're deceiving yourself or deceiving yourself. As you can see, the issues before us are very serious and there are strong contradictions, information changing from day to day on the proposed rules, all referred back to the budget law and the related ones. You don't understand the size of the covers. After talking about nationalizations and state intervention (I am thinking of the issue of Alitalia, which you confirmed yesterday), then more than 10 billion appear which should come from privatisations. There are strong contradictions, such as to make us say with certainty that this Update Note to the DEF is certainly not that change of paradigm that you have waved. I tell the various Members that they have spoken on this. We would have hoped for radical change, precisely in order to question - because we are aware of what has happened because of the policies of rigour, austerity, throughout the eurozone area, apart from a few countries, such as Germany - what has happened, the consequences on the lives of citizens and the increase in poverty and inequality. But all this unfortunately - alas - is not there, and the good and shared things are immediately contradicted by other measures that are absolutely regressive. For all these reasons, the Senators of Liberi and Equal will vote against the Update Note, but we will abstain on the resolution as regards the deviation. We will abstain because we are in order to overcome the parameters and challenge you on this, Mr President, that we announce that today we will present a constitutional bill to revise the balance of the budget in the Constitution; and we will see if you really will be able to accept the challenge, not just in words and with slogans, and arrive at a different horizon, that calls into question the fiscal compact and the policies of rigour that have imprisoned us all these years. [[Applause from Senator Laforgia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u97	Marsilio (FdI). Mr President, government gentlemen, fellow senators, we are not frightened that the government has chosen to set the deficit-GDP ratio at 2.4%: all in all, we prefer a government that declares it from the beginning, in the budget, and maintains this commitment, compared to the governments that instead set the deficit-GDP ratio at half, at 1-1.5% in its budget, at the end of the day they found themselves with the same figures and now they also have the courage to preach to others. And we're not even scared by the spread over 300 of these hours: we know these dynamics. We have lived the seasons of a legitimate government, the last legitimate government elected by the citizens, because from the Monti Government onward there has been no more one Head of Government ascended to Palazzo Chigi with the vote of the citizens. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]] Not even the one in office is a legitimate government, as he did not present Professor Conte as a candidate for head of government. Well, that government was swept away by a spread at 600, after for a year it fought with values above 400: imagine what fear it can make us 300! Moreover, there are other political forces that, when Italy is under attack, are rooting for the enemy in order to go against the Government of their country if they stand in opposition. We don't. We do not belong to this genius, we are too Italian to want the evil of our nation. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]] Nor does it impress us so much that the Bank of Italy, the Court of Auditors, the Monetary Fund, the rating agencies, the Parliamentary Budget Office, the National Institute of Statistics have all (I say all, and I save many) rejected the forecasts of economic growth that the Government claims to be able to achieve in order to make these new debts sustainable. A government that, moreover, at the mouth of Minister Tria declares, even with much prosopopea, that it has even made prudent, even pessimistic estimates, so that they will grow more than they write, if things really go as they think and as they say. What really scares us in this context is the attitude of superficiality, lightness and even presumption with which this Government leads Italy to war, war with Europe, with markets, with banks, with the whole world. And the question we ask ourselves is: is it healthy courage, put on the field to affirm the rights and needs of the Italian people, but having broad shoulders to withstand the impact and the right ideas to challenge the system and the dominant thought, or is it, instead, irresponsibility? The irresponsibility of a government group that stands and feeds on the very high expectations that has led millions of voters; voters who have been seduced by slogans of order, propaganda slogans and electoral very effective and direct. A majority that - it is true - has been able to speak, as they say, to the belly of the country, but that now does not know well how to fill it and that declares war on the system without perhaps having the strength to win it? It is not a great patriotic gesture, nor is it a particularly popular policy to drag the entire nation into an adventure that can have as a result, not the conquest of greater wealth, well-being and happiness, but, on the contrary, risks opening up a new dramatic season, which can open the doors to financial speculation, until it arrives again to the spectre of the Troika and the substantial commissioning of Italy. We do not lack the courage to accept a challenging challenge and we would like to meet on our road companions who are able to share the beauty of an exciting challenge. That is why we want to warn the Government, because it is putting its necks on the fangs of speculation, speculation that, notoriously, has no mercy and is ready to sink into the living flesh to realize its own designs. In fact, it shows its neck to the fangs of financial speculation when it chooses to allocate to current expenditure much of the new debt expected and to distribute income and citizenship pensions thinking that this drizzle of subsistence allowances can really restart the real economy and consumption. We are exposed when it is said, as Minister Tria did, that the only policy for the South presented by the Government is the income of citizenship and not the work, development and infrastructure. We are not surprised, moreover, that a government composed of a force with a origin, a rooting and a culture markedly northern, if not even northern, does not have the necessary attention and sensitivity to the Mezzogiorno of Italy and we knew the cultural weakness of the economic proposal grillina, founded on the assistantism and the logic of state aid. The result could only be this, abandoning the South to a destiny of underdevelopment. We are perplexed when, on the one hand, we witness the open and irrational conflict between the Heads of Government and the President of the INPS, guilty of defending the pension structure of the Fornero reform, and, on the other hand, the same Government declares in the DEF (go and read on page 73 what you write, which writes this Government) that the Fornero reform has ensured greater equity between generations, having significantly improved sustainability thanks to higher access requirements for old age pensions. We ask ourselves what is the government's line: "Infamous supplier," how do you cry out in the squares, or "Praise in Fornero," as you read in your economic documents? Beyond the controversy, on pensions as well as on many other aspects, of course we are waiting for the budget law to have a real debate on the substance and bring our proposals, which we will discuss. First of all, we believe it is a real priority to double disability pensions, because the real priority is not to bring the minimum pensions of those who have not paid contributions to a threshold (780 euros), too close or even higher than those who have always paid them all, but to make worthy of being lived the life of those who cannot work for physical or mental disability and who today are forced to live in a miserable way with 200, 300, when 400 euros of pension is good and hope only for the help and comfort of their loved ones. This is the real emergency and I hope that not the government, not the opposition, but the whole Parliament will put an end to this issue and give a fair and sacrosanct answer to those who really need it. If you really want to fight a fair war and hope to reverse the trend of growth, that trend that sees Italy always in line when other nations grow and always first in decline in times of crisis, and to succeed in doing so, moreover, while all macroeconomic forecasts describe a world that slows down or risks a new crisis, between tariffs, trade wars, rising oil price, crises and Middle Eastern conflicts and other areas of conflict, speculative bubbles ready to explode cyclically, you have to change the economic policy that you are proposing. Move the 10 billion that you will throw into citizenship income or at least a part, that you will not be able to spend in 2019, waiting to reform employment centers, approve laws and circulars, examine millions of questions, organize training courses and activities - because you promised that they will not remain on the couch, these 6 million people, but will go to do socially useful jobs or training courses - that will not start on January 1. Move this money towards tax and investment policies, have the courage - at least you of the League, who with us have shared this economic and government program - to immediately reduce the tax on families and businesses, not only on companies. The measure you have proposed for small and medium-sized enterprises is, as we say here, a romanella that does not change the rankings. The tax pressure expected in your DEF (because once you do the Update Note becomes your programmatic document) remains dramatically and resoundingly anchored to 42 percent, other than flat tax at 15 percent! Measures such as tax cuts come into force immediately: from the January paycheck, they put money in the pockets of citizens, who will have so much greater propensity to spend and consume, of entrepreneurs who will hire more because they will produce more and it will cost them less to do so. This is the real growth you need. You of the yellow-green government are often fooled by the thinkers of classical economic thinking because you are considered the supporters of the happy decline, a criticism that many turn to you without even having read a line of Serge Latouche. The real problem is that if you do not straighten the course to Italy it will not be a season of happy decrease (maybe, at least would be happy and consciously sought) but a sad season of unhappy decrease. It is for this reason and for those outlined in the motion for a resolution signed by all the senators of our Group that Brothers of Italy will vote against the Update Note to the DEF. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u100	Mr Misiani (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, the Government's Update Note is not standing, it is written on the sand. The League and the Movimento 5 Stars tell us the fairy tale of Bengodi: more investments, more growth, all retired five years before, income and citizenship pension for 6 million people. The reality is completely different, it is the reality of a wrong and dangerous maneuver, which risks taking us off the road. You have presented us with unreliable forecasts that have been rejected by the Parliamentary Budget Office and criticized by the Bank of Italy, the ISTAT and the Court of Auditors. The reaction of the majority, your reaction, was in the name of delegitimation and personal attacks in the face of these criticisms. The professors of the Parliamentary Budget Office treated as traitors of the people, the Bank of Italy that would do better to present itself in the elections, the president of the INPS who must resign and, even, as you wrote in your resolution, the zeroing of the Fund for Plurality in Publishing, because the inconvenient newspapers are better than closing. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is what you think of freedom in our country. These are unacceptable attacks, Mr President, because they are directed against independent authorities and the free press, against those who have the sole responsibility of keeping their backs straight against those who are in charge. You have presented a ridiculous report to Parliament, which does not contain any return plans, as the Constitution and the Accounting Act would require. With Europe, you're on the brink. Vice Prime Minister Salvini, whom I see in the Chamber, and Vice Prime Minister Di Maio said: "Me ne frego", "Gi italiani" will give us a hand "Gi italiani", "Gi italiani" will pull right "Gi italiani", "Gi italiani", "Gi italiani", "Gi italiani", "Gi italiani", "Gi italiani", "Gi italiani", "Gi Mr President, with this maneuver we risk pulling right into a wall. [[Applause from the PD Group]] These proclamations, which bring us back 80 years of balcony on the balcony, did not bring good either to the country or to those who spoke those words. And who today thinks of defending Italy, going low against everything and against everyone, takes us nowhere, only hurts the Italians, starting with those who voted the parties of the current majority. Mr President, 70% of the three-year manoeuvre is covered by deficits. The deficit is not a taboo in itself, it depends on whether it is sustainable and how it is used. The manoeuvres of the Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri governments have been expansive and have helped Italy to get out of the recession, create jobs and get back on its feet. On the contrary, the deficit in your maneuver is unsustainable. What you write in the maneuver - 2.4, 2.1 and 1.8 percent - will be much more, because the predictions are optimistic and you will never do the privatisations you wrote in the Update Note. Do you know how much the "zero comma" are worth, about which Vice Prime Minister Salvini speaks? In 2021, at the end of the three-year period, the public debt will be 110 billion higher than what we will have at the end of 2018: 110 billion charged to future generations, 110 billion more debt that put at risk the savings of Italian families. It is a film already seen in the 1980s, which does not have a happy ending, ladies and gentlemen, because we are still paying for that film today and we should avoid repeating the mistakes of the past. You proclaim the government of change, you have also spoken in this Chamber of discontinuity, of Third Republic, but here there is no trace of it: we are returning in the worst season of the First Republic of the country. All this deficit, according to what you write, should serve to reactivate growth but, in reality, almost everything goes in the current part: the stop to the increase of VAT that, moreover, stops in 2019; 100 quota for pensions and it is not understood whether it is temporary, as said by Minister Tria or permanent; the income of citizenship that starts with good intentions and risks replicating the worst state welfareism. Then there are the investments, of course, also mentioned by the Undersecretary Garavaglia. Too bad investment crumbs remain, because investment resources are less than 15% of the three-year maneuver. For the rest: school cuts, zero for university, zero for research, zero for the Mezzogiorno and nothing for the future of this country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The historian Emanuele Felice is right, who wrote that this is how we sign our decline, because in this maneuver there is no future for the country but there is only the decline, the decline, everything except the happy decrease. Now, Minister Tria has insisted heavily on investment in the Commission. He is right, because they must be relaunched, but Minister Tria should agree with Minister Toninelli because while the right hand - Tria - says that the investment wants to relaunch them, the left hand - Toninelli - has not yet unlocked the 36 billion allocated by the Government Gentiloni Silveri, has blocked great works for 19 billion and has removed the money at the outskirts, that is to say the part of the country that should be supported and where priority should be invested. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Finally, I begin with the conclusion: fiscal peace. Dear friends of the 5 Star Movement, fiscal peace? It's the fair of hypocrisy. Have the courage to call that measure by its true name: it is a pardon! [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is a slap for honest taxpayers, for those who pay taxes up to the last euro and it is a favor for those who have never paid taxes and will continue to evade them. I'm done, Mr. President. This maneuver will take us off the road. We call on the Government and the majority: return to the real world. In 2019 we will have to place 400 billion euros of government bonds. You need a scapegoat, continuously, this is the story of the sovereignists, but the problem of this country is not Europe, it is the savers, who we must convince day after day to buy these government bonds. The spread was 130 before the elections, today it is above 300 and the tables of your Note tell us that already this year we will pay two billion more interest, 11 billion more in the three years 2019-2021 that become 18 billion more interest with your maneuver. This is the price of your confusion, of your contradictions, of your demagogy and that is taxpayers' money, burned on the altar of demagogy, removed from public services, removed from investment and removed from the reduction of tax pressure. Change your ways, change this maneuver, stop playing with the citizens' money. Think a little less about the next European elections and a little more about the future of this country and the future of our young people and do it now, before it is too late. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u103	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my statement will be a brief technical intervention, but it is linked to the concept expressed, with some excitement at the moment, by the opposition benches, that is, the right need to avoid the mistakes of the past. I will talk to you about a few numbers, rather than percentages: 40,9, 5,7, 31,9 and 6,7. What are these percentages? I am the summary of the political parable of the two extensors of the courteous letter received on 5 October last by our Government, a political parable on which I ask for your constructive reflection. The percentage of 40.9 is that which was reached by the French Socialist Party in the second round of the 2012 legislative; Pierre Moscovici became Minister of Economics and Finance and, since we are so interested in the percentages, from 2012 to 2014 he held that position, making an average of 4.3 percent deficit. Then he went to be the Commissioner for Economic Affairs of the European Union but two years later, in 2016, the French deficit is still 3.4%. Some journalists, at some press conference, asked Jean-Claude Juncker why things were going this way, and we must remember Juncker's response when accusing our government's ministers of not showing sufficient pro-European spirit. It must be remembered that Juncker replied that France does 3.4 and can do so because it is France. These words, legitimizing the idea that there are children and stepchildren, do much more harm to the European project than any just claim of our Government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] But we are given pills of macroeconomic fundamentals: we are told that however they have less public debt. Our Parent Company did very well to remember that public debt is not the only element of judgment in an economic system: there is, for example, also foreign debt. Let's talk about the public debt: from 2007 to 2018 the French one increased by 32 points; the Italian one by only 30. Let's talk about the foreign debt: the French net debt position has deteriorated by about 20 points and ours has improved by about 20 points, in the same period of time. So what do you mean? - I would not put too much hope in the fact that France can remain a virtuous example for a long time. I'm talking to you now about 31.9 - you'll understand where I want to go - that is the percentage that the Latvian Unity Party reached in the 2010 policies (Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis, elected a year earlier, in 2009). Well, in the last election, this party got 6,7. How do we explain this thunder? Not being Dombrovskis France, he could not afford not to do austerity; he did it and here comes immediately the Pierino of the macro-economy, which points out that in Latvia, however, unemployment fell from 19 to 11 percent. All right, so I'll explain to you how it happened: the decrease was because in a country that receives about two percent of its GDP of subsidies from the European Union, 10% of the working-age population has emigrated; it has therefore exported workers - and also macroeconomic tensions - to other countries. This I say pro veritate, not in a spirit of revenge, but to reflect on what is the model to which we are asked to conform. We should all remember that people give good advice when they can no longer set a bad example, and the two signatories of the letter to Minister Tria at home will no longer be able to set a bad example. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] This is just to say that if we are barbarians, as is called the 'Finncial Times', which we thank for its attention, it is not because in Italy there has been an epidemic of populism, it is only because democracy works and Italian citizens are tired of listening to the lectures of those who have impersonated a model of a failed Union. [[Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] This model, our colleague Mr Malpezzi, does not like it; we contest it, we want to change it, because in all evidence it has increased social conflict and also the international one in Europe, and it has done so because it is spoiled by a fundamental hypocrisy, from which we should finally get rid: the one that allows us to treat as technical choices those that are basically political decisions, as he very appropriately recalled before, in general discussion, Senator Tosato. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Those who, then, call us to respect the rules should, however, for intellectual honesty, remember how many times, in the short path of the European Union, these rules have been applied to enemies and interpreted or rewritten for friends, as when Germany violated - which my colleague Renzi recalled in other times - the rule of three percent and this rule was immediately corroborated with a series of loopholes, such as: the Germans, however, have done the reforms, so they can do as they please. You accuse us of writing a dream book, but then you bow down to a totally arbitrary fetish and challenged by a part of the scientific community that is the potential product, that is, what GDP would be, the dream of a GDP, in a world where everyone worked, which they can't do because it is prevented exactly by those rules based on the concept of potential GDP and output gap. This - if you will excuse me - is an unpleasant paradox. It is good, therefore, indeed, the Minister to remember, on page 59 of the DEF Update Note, how - I quote - the persistent weakness of the cyclical conditions of our country is not adequately grasped by the estimates produced by the official methodology for the estimation of the potential product. This, in my opinion, is the most important passage of the entire Document, because it opens the real debate on the rules. For the sake of intellectual honesty - or, at least, I try - I want to say that Minister Padoan had started on this road too - it must be acknowledged, as I did in the Commission and do now in this House - but he lacked one thing: the courage to disobey absurd rules. In our opinion, this DEF is the right maneuver to do now, both in economic and structural terms. Just under four months ago I reminded you that the expansionary economic cycle in the United States was the second longest in post-war history, and yesterday we saw some creaks; I also remembered the difficulties that some of our European partners were facing, and two days ago the agency Reuters was amazed that the German economy was ringing a collapse of production after another. It does not take much to understand that a failing model is not a zero-sum game, but a negative-sum game, and that is why those who are really animated by a spirit of genuine, positive and constructive European brotherhood must challenge it. Under these conditions, we can no longer rely on the throw of foreign demand, and we must be prepared to counter the effects of financial shocks that are likely to come across the ocean or from emerging markets. To this end, domestic demand needs to be re-launched, and this is precisely the philosophy of the DEF, which is first and foremost implemented through income and investment support measures and the reduction of the tax burden. This DEF, however, is above all a gesture of civil disobedience: rejecting recessive maneuvers under current conditions will help us to promote a debate on the meaning of our coexistence in Europe, exactly how to stop a certain ship this summer - in addition to saving a fair amount of human lives, no longer encouraged to put themselves at risk - has promoted a debate on the common management of our borders and migration flows. [[Applause from the L-Sp-PSd'Az and M5S groups. Senator Pharaoh's comments.]] MALPEZZI (PD). What a debate! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let my colleague finish, please. It's okay. BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). For this reason, the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will vote in favour of this programme. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u106	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, with this explanation of vote I draw the lines of a series of considerations which have been made by my colleagues from the Group of the European Forza Italia, who preceded me. The considerations put forward relate to several aspects of this Update Note to the DEF and of course are conducive to the subsequent budgetary maneuver, which is what we all expect to see, sooner or later (because for now its spread was only oral and tralatia, we expect that sooner or later the paper or computer support will appear and allow us to judge more thoroughly what it is). The figures, however, are already there, they are important and we are concerned: I am saying this right now, saying that in the various sectors affected by the various interventions of my parliamentary group these concerns - indeed, deep concerns - have already emerged. The Document under consideration is not only a bunch of numbers, more or less shared, but it is the first real political act of this Government, from which we expected a broader breath, a vision, an idea of the country and a representation of that Government of change through acts coated on the government's budget posts. I have listened very carefully to the report of Senator Dell'Olio, especially the tendential part, the programmatic part, which is precisely what disturbs us; the part in which your optimism tends to overwhelm in the adventurousness; that part in which what you call "challenges" are considered by us as a hazard, a risk; and I explain why. I am not here to make apodictic statements; each of us has brought his motivation and we will do so too. I greatly appreciated the considerations of Senator Marsilio who expressed with great common sense, much objectivity and above all with the pride of his history, which is also our history and the last government elected by the Italians in 2008. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The Berlusconi Government, Senator Dell'Olio, has, first of all, negotiated those conditions of flexibility - which you mentioned - and those factors which can temper the rigour of the European Union's assessments in relation to our budgetary exuberances. Those we have negotiated, and Mr Marsilio has rightly said: it is certainly not we who are going to join the "force spread " party. For Christ's sake, we have suffered the spread, shamefully. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We have been the subject of a deception of the spread that we could never and never turn as a political argument towards our opponents, who for us are - I repeat - opponents and not enemies, who must be heard and counter-deducted, not delegitimized. I would like to point out, however, that when we hear about an extra deficit of 2.4 percent, let us make a trivial consideration of common sense: how will this debt be used? We know that the deficit is nothing but future debt that will impact on the shoulders, on the skin and on the pockets of all of us, of all Italians, and it is the Italians that we must worry about at this moment, because we are here to represent them. The extra deficit, which will be future debt, is not ‐ like all instruments, good or bad in itself; it depends on how you use it. It is good if you use it to make prospective investments and to drastically lower the tax burden on households and businesses (underline: on companies). Then I will mention the points that really leave us very disappointed in this Document that was to be the great vision of the change of this Government to two heads: one we like, the other much less, but they are two heads that do not have particularly original ideas in this Document. I said that we do not consider the extra deficit or future debt in itself as a crime; it depends on how you use it. If as an entrepreneur I go to the bank, I ask for a loan and use it to make innovation in my company (product innovation, process and route), I enrich myself, my family and my employees; I benefit my suppliers and I circulate consumption. Then I do economics and I also do welfare and welfare I pay for it and I don't make others pay for it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] But if I, with my debt to the bank I borrowed from, make the wrong, the wrong speculations, and what's left in a moment of madness, I play roulette, then I don't do healthy debt, but pure gambling, which will impoverish myself and my family. Believe me, these are not peregrine considerations. I see Minister Salvini saying goodbye. We, Minister Salvini, are not nervous, but terribly concerned. We are terribly concerned, because we want to find that government ally with whom we have shared an economic soul that has been blessed by millions of voters and that we do not find here. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We are absolutely not nervous, we are hopeful, because, like all the Italians who voted for us, we believed in it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It's not too late. Mr Salvini, Minister for the Interior and Deputy President of the Council of Ministers. Never lose hope. BERNINI (FI-BP). We'll tell the Italians that. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We will tell the Italians that they must not lose hope, when - God forbid, because we support Italy - what is happening on the markets will impact on their savings, their mortgages, their loans and their families. My friends, I repeat once again: I am not, together with my Group, shy of criticism of those bureaucrats and commissioners who claim to teach us the lesson and to teach us how to govern and who often confuse the rigour of public finances with the rigor of the economy. That's not us. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We're okay with debt, we're okay with investing in ourselves, but how? Lowering taxes on businesses, families and Italians as a whole; this does not happen and has not happened in this measure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Don't make fun of us, please! Undersecretary Garavaglia, we cannot say that a little more than 400,000 VAT consignments that were already being used and are now benefiting from a simplified regime represent the application of flat tax. Five scales: this is an unsimplified but complicated scheme for 1% of taxpayers. And have we forgotten the remaining 99% of taxpayers? Is it not that these taxpayers, with the largest revenue, which represents more than EUR 8 billion and with the elimination of tax deductions and deductions, could be subject to an increase in taxes? Attention! The only thing that really works isn't the hot cloth of a fake tax reduction for 1% of taxpayers, but it's a big tax shock for the country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] That and only that can represent the reversal of the trend that the country needs. Be careful not to find in our hands a great book of lost dreams: Italians would not forgive us. We talked about enterprise and I quote a dramatic case: as you know, today in Turin Hag announced that it will relocate to Bulgaria. It is tragic news, but unfortunately it cannot surprise us, because unfortunately this is not a country that has a friendly attitude towards businesses. I've heard of masters, takers, with expressions that don't even use Camusso and Landini anymore. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We must defend the enterprise and not condemn it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Mr President, I am going to conclude because I see the light on my mic flashing. Citizenship income is another issue that is closely related to what I have just mentioned, that is, to owe to do useful things. If you go into debt to gamble, the debt will turn against us. The income of citizenship, colleagues, intercepts the need to facilitate the journey to work and the need to give assistance to those who do not make it. Citizenship income, as structured in this measure, which is very nebulous, has the "happy" ability to get the worst of both: discourages work and stabilizes poverty. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It feeds black labour and risks increasing scams against honest citizens. We want to meet the needs of people who can't do it themselves, but not like this. Listen to our recipes, to which I refer and which are contained in our document, which you have cashed out without even discussing it. We have discussed this and we will continue, insist, fight and fight, so that our beliefs, our recipes of good economic governance, economic development and support of families and businesses together, may prevail over depressive recipes, which do not correspond to our economic philosophy. Mr President, you have understood that our vote will be absolutely contrary to this measure, but it will be constructively, continuing to fight in this House and outside - I repeat - because Italy in which we believe deeply, that we want and that we will continue to believe can always come to the end. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u109	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is not easy to summarize in ten minutes the content of the Update Note to the DEF in our examination. In this document is summarized all our dream, the dream under which Beppe Grillo and Gianroberto Casaleggio have collected and welcomed us since 2009 and have brought us to the institutions in 2013. The dream of a fairer, more supportive, freer country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Our maneuver was born to raise a country bogged down, blocked by a suffocating bureaucracy and restrictive policies. Ours is an act of great courage, to restore serenity to Italian citizens, who for too many years have lived a policy of tears and blood, have given much and received little. The European austerity rules in recent years have not produced the desired results: this is before everyone's eyes, we cannot deny it and you cannot deny it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Not only did the accounts not fall within the parameters set by the European Union, but the welfare of Italians fell considerably. This is demonstrated by the unemployment rate, which is around 10%, while the youth rate is as high as 31% (your European policies). The growth of the real economy is tremendously slow and far from pre-crisis levels. We are a tired country, which travels at a totally different speed than the other Member States. The Update Note to the DEF presented by our Government has given rise to many concerns. I honestly don't understand them. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] We are aware that this is a bold maneuver, but this is the moment when we either have the courage to operate with radical and decisive choices, as the people asked for by the vote of 4 March, or the cry of our fellow citizens will be suffocated. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] That is why I am convinced that we must not let ourselves be carried away by the emotionally unstable wave of the markets. Our future growth prospects are clear and prosperous and we will demonstrate that. The Economic and Financial Document, presented in April by the previous Government, although it contained the restrictive economic policies demanded by the European Union, did not achieve the intended objectives. The forecast for GDP growth for 2018 was 1.5%, while to date the estimated level stands at 1.2%. Not to mention the trend data 2019-2020: figures very different from those supposed. You wanted to grow the country without investing; you didn't have any perplexities about it. Our maneuver - it is true - predicts for 2019 a deficit-GDP ratio of 2.4 percent, in line with what the old government used for gifts to banks and friends. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Today, however, you are asked to listen to the markets, because you have too many doubts. Here, we want to listen to the citizens and predict the reduction of the debt-to-GDP ratio, today to 131.2 percent, to 126.7% by 2021. [[Ironic comments from the PD Group.]] These are the figures that will enable us to respect your European constraints and, at the same time, to ensure a better quality of life for our citizens. [[Ironic comments from the PD Group.]] To avoid affecting the pockets of citizens, businesses and therefore the economy in general, the government's action will begin by blocking the increase in VAT, that increase inherited from previous governments, planned for 2019. No less important are the actions aimed at allocating resources to public investment, a fundamental lever for the growth of our country. It is our Government's commitment to support investment with a view that always considers the cost-benefit ratio of each project, with innovative and sustainable works. These will be measures that will improve the quality of our country's infrastructure, making it increasingly competitive and attractive for investment. The tax burden, today with an average of 42.2%, will also be reduced by raising the thresholds of the simplified regime for businesses, professionals and craftsmen. For companies, on the other hand, the reduction of the tax on countervailable profits in machinery and new hirings will apply. Then we want to talk about the actions on justice, those that the previous Government of the PD forgot to do, like the DASPO to the corrupt? Well, we did. We are sure that in a country that is finally set on legality everyone will want to come and invest. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Thanks to the introduction of e-invoicing, the reduction of tax requirements and the abolition of meter income, we will achieve the simplification that is so much talked about and that will free valuable time for our entrepreneurs. [[Comments of the PD Group.]] Not only that, it will help us to combat tax avoidance and evasion, the scourge of our country, and bring back a healthy relationship between tax and taxpayers. No more tax payers and entrepreneurs oppressed by the tax! Taxpayers who have seen themselves taking away their homes because they are in economic difficulty; entrepreneurs who have had to choose between paying taxes or their employees because of your laws will no longer have to exist. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Tax peace will be theirs. [[Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] Be quiet. Our goal is to put them back on their feet and get them right back into the country's economic cycle. In addition to the simplification and reduction of the tax burden, the Government will act in order to protect the enterprises in order to strengthen the context in which the enterprises themselves operate. Examples are the protection of Made in Italy, the promotion of the internationalization of Italian companies, the strengthening of the business plan 4.0, the promotion of technological innovation and the development of the underused areas. Moreover, the Government, as it has already demonstrated with the decree of dignity, is committed to improving social inclusion, to combating precariousness and to stimulating youth employment. In order to achieve these objectives, it is essential to overcome the Fornero law, which has created numerous generational imbalances. The current social security system certainly guarantees financial stability in the long term, but it blocks the turnover of human resources in the medium term. That is why we are seeing thousands of young people forced to flee abroad to ensure a future. For us, this is unacceptable. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] We want to allow those who already have a considerable number of contributions to finally retire and our young people to be able to enter the world of work, build a future and, who knows, a family. As we have always promised, we will also refund the swindled savers; savers cheated twice: first by the bad management of the banks with the complicity of those who did not want to see or pretend not to see and then by politics, by the old PD government that in one day reset their savings without blinking an eye. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Last but not least, citizenship income, a measure designed to combat poverty, strengthen social cohesion and stimulate active labour policies. The 5 Star Movimento has always been committed to establishing this measure also in Italy, already present in all European countries. This is not only an investment towards the most vulnerable components to make them fully participate in the progress of society, but also a stimulus to aggregate demand. The 5 Star Movimento was born to be close to the citizens and will therefore vote favorably to the Update Note to the DEF, in order to finally have a maneuver in favor of the happiness of the Italians. It's okay. It will be the confidence of the citizens in this Government that will conquer that of the markets. So much for your perplexity! [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]] MALPEZZI (PD). But whose face?
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u110	We shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution on the report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012. I would warn you that an absolute majority of the members of the Assembly is required for this resolution. Therefore, the vote on the motion for a resolution will take place by electronic means by simultaneous ballot. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 100, tabled by Senators Patuanelli and Romeo, to the report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot: [[Senators present 278 Senators voting 277 Majority 161 Favourites 165 Contrars 107 Absent 5]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u113	PISANI Giuseppe (M5S). Mr President, I wanted to point out that during the previous vote the electronic device at my station did not work and, therefore, I could not vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u114	The Presidency takes note of this. We move on to motion for a resolution No 5 to the DEF Update Note, accepted by the Government, on which amendments have been tabled, which I call on the presenters to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u115	Mr President, I just want to say that a text 2 of Amendment 5.16 has been tabled, which should be distributed and that, in essence, the amendment has been reworded.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u116	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u117	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments with the exception of Amendment 5.16 (text 2), on which it is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u118	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u119	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.1, by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.2, by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u122	STEFANO (PD). Mr President, we are faced with an update note to the DEF and a majority resolution that I confirm to be embarrassing with regard to the situation in the country, but also dangerous to the democratic situation. I am thinking of the zeroing of the funds for publishing and pluralism, and I am thinking of the interventions on the State Advocate, which claim an idea of authoritarian government. In response, there is our calibrated amendment on objectives that should be shared by anyone who is called to political and institutional responsibilities in the country. I would like to quote quickly the four points on which our proposal is based, by replacing and not adding to those proposed in the majority resolution and expressing a vision of real economic policy, which looks at real employment and support for families as a fight against poverty. The first clear commitment is the reduction of labour costs, not the number of workers as well as the "decree unemployment." In order to increase stable employment it is necessary to cut the contributory wedge, for permanent contracts with increasing safeguards, and we propose to do so with one point per year for the next four years. The second is to favour the resumption of the investments; during the years of the center-left government have been unlocked approximately four billion leftovers and with the sentence n. 101 of 2018 the alibis of those who do not want to start the great infrastructural works are reduced. Another thing we ask is to give continuity to the tax discounts for those who invest in the 4.0 business plan. The third point is an overall reform of tax aid to families with children. You wanted a Ministry of the Family, but until now we have seen and heard little about the subject of its delegations, except for stereo ideological announcements. We therefore plan to extend the protections for the self-employed and the incapacient IRPEF and also to include a universal allowance of 240 euros per month per dependent child to be paid to families whose spouse with the highest income does not exceed the threshold of 100,000 euros per year. In the fourth and final point, we are calling not only for continuity, but for greater commitment to the active instrument to combat poverty: inclusion income (REI), because we recognise this instrument as a real capacity for active inclusion and greater growth towards participation in the labour market. Finally, I repeat the common sense of our proposals that are not additional, but substitute that - I remember - try to draw a virtuous path of economic recovery that our country for no reason must stop following. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u123	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.3, tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.4, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.5, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.6, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.7, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.8, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.9, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.20 tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.11, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.12.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u124	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u126	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, Amendment 5.12 seeks to stress the difficulty of being able to understand a revision of the current defence model, which merely reduces military spending simply by some unmotivated cuts. Another is a different model of defense, another is to imagine where you can go to save money, another is to use defense as an ATM, imagining that it is an unnecessary expense to ensure the security of our State and our nation, imagining that you can reset the necessary long-term forecast that military spending foreshadows and makes necessary. That is why we shall be voting in favour of Amendment 5.12. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u127	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.12, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.13, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.14, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.15.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u128	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u130	FLORIS (FI-BP). Mr President, in my explanation of vote I shall just read the text of amendment 5.15, which I hope everyone has already read. The amendment reads as follows: In the context of the constitutional reform announced by the Update Note, to recognise - through a specific amendment to Article 119 - the serious and permanent natural disadvantage resulting from insularity and to provide the necessary measures to ensure effective equality and effective enjoyment of individual and inalienable rights, including in order to overcome the European Commission's objections to conditions of favour to the Italian islands, often considered State aid. As far as insularity is concerned, we ask that the Government undertake to amend Article 119. Mr President, at another time I will talk about the presentation of the measure of popular initiative on insularity, but I believe that this initiative and this favourable vote creates a condition of justice compared to what is the diseconomy of living on an island. I ask the House to read and interpret it; if it then decides to vote against it, fine, but in conscience, to be insulted, I feel I have to propose a reasoned vote on Amendment 5.15. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u131	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.15 tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.16 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u134	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, we are asking for the separate vote on Amendment 5.16 (text 2). We would have liked to have voted on the original text because it was basically equivalent to what Senator Floris described earlier and which, unfortunately, the House or, better, the majority rejected. Therefore, we would very much like to vote in favour of the second part of Amendment 5.16 (text 2) which concerns insularity, concerns the referendums in Lombardy and Veneto, but the first part clearly refers to the balances provided for in the DEF Update Note, on which our position is known.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u135	I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government whether they accept the separate vote on Amendment 5.16 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u136	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u137	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur, although there are no particular problems.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u138	I put to the vote the motion for a separate vote, tabled by Senator Malan. It's not approved. Mr Ferrari (PD). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u139	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u141	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to make a very brief explanation of vote on Amendment 5.16 (text 2). Since it will not be possible to vote for it separately, our vote will be against. I would point out that we voted in favour of the amendment calling for a solution to the problem of the insularity on which the majority of the Government voted against, so that everyone then takes their responsibilities. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u142	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.16 (text 2), tabled by Senator Solinas. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 517.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u143	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u145	Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, clearly our vote is against and I take advantage of these few seconds to give an answer to a doubt by Vice-President Di Maio. Vice President Di Maio wonders why there are so many against this maneuver and can not give an answer. There is the Bank of Italy, the European Central Bank, the Court of Auditors and many other bureaucrats, investors and even Minister Savona who tells us, to reassure us, that if the markets continue to get agitated, however the maneuver could change. Dear Minister Di Maio, of course, if he continues to attend Minister Toninelli again, he will hardly be able to give himself an answer. This is a maneuver without objectives, confused, contradictory, without an overall vision. It is a maneuver rich in selfishness that unloads all responsibility, all responsibility for future generations. An important burden. Is it a maneuver that gets into debt and debt what can you do? No investment, welfare and current spending. Share 100 and citizenship income are measures intended - and this is a question I ask the Government - to last over time? Are they structured or are they aimed at the European elections and perhaps they will only be effective for a few years? Employment centres, ladies and gentlemen, are not places for the production of work, but are places where demand must be crossed with the supply of work, so it is not enough for the billion that you allocate to employment centres. Those resources will certainly be used to make a system that does not work, but the production of the work is up to the companies. The Government's task is to facilitate the activities of businesses and not hinder them. You have approved a decree-law called dignity and now announce the reform of labour law to generate further confusion and uncertainty. President Bagnai, you have convinced me, because you ask for the courage of disobedience. I'm convinced. I'll probably vote for it, and I'll explain why. If the Government breaks down the deficit with all the arguments you have put forward here, I ask you, however, if the same arguments can be put forward by all the mayors of the municipalities of Italy, that is, if the mayors - as well as you - can pass the Stability Pact. We must be consequential: if the government can do so, so can the mayor, who is the interface of the primary needs of the citizens. If you allow this also to the mayors, I assure you that - in dissent from the Democratic Party Group - I will vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group. Ironic applause from Senator Bagnai.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u146	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.17, tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.18, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.19, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.20, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.21, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.22, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.23, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.24, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.25, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.26, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.27, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.28 tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.29.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u147	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u149	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, we have tabled this amendment - we hope it will be voted on by at least one part of the majority, if not for all - which, in addition to calling for a tax relief for the tourism industry, calls in particular for the continuity of the company of the bathing enterprises that are threatened by the Bolkestein directive. Mr Bolkenstein himself said that he did not think at all that the rules of his directive could apply to bathing enterprises. However, Italy still cannot find a way to ensure such continuity. I address my colleagues in the League who, at least in words, have always supported this battle with us: putting this necessity among the Government's commitments seems to us to be the least. I therefore urge those who are in favour of ensuring the continuity of the bathing enterprises threatened by Bolkenstein to vote in favour of amendment 5.29. Otherwise, it means I'm not. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u150	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.29, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.30, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 5 tabled by Senators Romeo and Patuanelli in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Motions for resolutions No 1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, No 2, tabled by Senator Marcucci and other Senators, No 3, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other Senators, and No 4, tabled by Senator Bernini and other Senators are therefore excluded. The review of the Update Note is thus concluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u153	Parent (PD). Mr President, today here are Maria Teresa, Maria, Luca, Francesco, Giorgio and many other citizens and citizens of Rome, in particular Villa Spada, Fidene, Colle Salario and Nuovo Salario. They are citizens forced to smell crazy, unbearable, coming from the TMB Salario, plant for mechanical and biological treatment of waste. The plant has become harmful to people in four areas: environment, economy, health and social. There are four areas in which we need to find solutions. The TMBs were born technologically to reduce pollution, because they treat cold undifferentiated waste, and to support the virtuous cycle of recycling. But in the Salario plant every day additional waste is brought compared to those planned, leaning waiting to be transferred elsewhere. So the damage to the environment is that the TMB has been turned into a landfill. 18.07) (Followed by the speaker). The smell, which is only the symptom of this environmental imbalance, endangers the physical and mental health of citizens and citizens and their sociality. I was in the square on Saturday, October 6 next to the townsmen and citizens who manifested. At the demonstration a grandmother - but it's just one example, I could make a thousand others - told me that her granddaughter cannot invite her classmates to do homework because there is too much stink. There is also a kindergarten nearby. The stink mainly affects the weakest and the sickest. My heart was tormented by the story of a mother whose son, who lost because he was sick, was forced all day at home to smell bad. It is an economic damage because in that reality houses lose value for families who have bought them with so much sacrifice. What does the city do? Mr President, give me a few more seconds because this is a very urgent matter. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Parente, I'll give you a few more seconds, but if I take your word off, you don't think it's rude. Parent (PD). To promote the monitoring will be the ARPA of Umbria, paid by AMA, owner of the plant and therefore part in question. The most dramatic thing is that we do not monitor the causes of the stink, but only what the heat sources are. President, the smell is the oldest meaning of humanity, it serves to safeguard life. When a food is smelly we do not eat it; the smell warns us of a fire. The smell has no political color. It is therefore necessary to immediately make a crisis unit between AMA, Region and Municipality and close the TMB Salario, because the solutions for waste in Rome exist. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u154	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u156	[[Brusio.]] I call on the Members who are leaving this House to do so in silence, so that the senators can make their speeches. FLORIS (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to speak about the atmospheric events that have taken place since yesterday in Sardinia, causing serious inconveniences and, unfortunately, also a victim, to the families of whom I join my mourning and I think that of the whole House. I am referring to what have been defined as exceptional weather events and natural disasters. However, I would like to remind the House that those weather events called exceptional, in Sardinia, are being repeated at the level of one every two or three years, sometimes even one year after the other, so the exceptional word, at this juncture, I do not think is the most appropriate one. I thank all the members of Civil Protection, the assistants and volunteers who have worked unfailingly all night to restore normal conditions, which has not yet been achieved in our city. Indifferent damage has been caused to the whole road system and beyond. Consider that the Saras refinery has been isolated from the rest of Sardinia for some time and for us it is of strategic importance, because it also supplies all fuel distributors. In addition, all farms have suffered considerable damage, as well as manufactured goods and civil housing. In short, every two or three years the same situation is repeated. Therefore, Mr President, I believe that these facts are no longer to be considered exceptional and that infrastructure must be put back in hand and, not for their maintenance, which I consider to be a obvious fact, but because they are no longer sufficient to contain such events, which I would no longer call exceptional. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u157	The Presidency supports the mourning of the victims of Sardinia.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u158	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u160	EVANGELIST (M5S). Mr President, the subject is unfortunately the same as in the previous speech. Yesterday in Sardinia, due to the intense rainfall, the eight-month rain fell in eight hours and the island suffered serious and considerable damage. Widespread floods have isolated several countries and firefighters have had to evacuate some sixty people. Viability has been severely compromised. It's news from a few minutes ago that a missing woman was found dead. I therefore express my condolences to the whole family of Tamara, the mother of three daughters and to all the citizenship of Assemini. A bridge collapsed, isolating the highway 195, which connects Cagliari to Capoterra. A few kilometers earlier, a stretch of road collapsed, causing a sinkhole, flooded with water. Other roads have been closed and so schools and offices have been closed. These are areas of Sardinia already hard hit by the flood several years ago. In 2008, there were four victims. As a Sardinian Member of Parliament, but also on behalf of all the senators and Members of Parliament, I would like to thank all the rescuers and voluntary citizens who immediately activated themselves. I express my solidarity and sympathy and I hope that the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and Minister Toninelli will put in place all the necessary initiatives to give comfort and support to the people affected. [[Applause from the M5S, FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u161	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u163	SOLINAS (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and fellow senators, the subject is the same as in previous speeches. Sardinia pays once again a tribute of blood to yet another natural calamitous event that falls, this time, on the south of the island. There are, in addition to a unfortunately deceased person, after being sought all night and this morning, families evacuated and huge damage to private and productive activities. I want to thank, by associating myself with those who have already done so, the whole structure, the men of the State, the Region and the Municipality who are on the field, together with the volunteers, to lend the first aid. This is certainly not the time of controversy: it is the time of solidarity and closeness, but it is frankly not acceptable that we talk about tragic events when on the state road 195 there are projects for thirty years that ANAS does not bring to completion. It is no longer acceptable for rural, provincial and state roads to be in conditions of pitiful abandonment. I hope that from now on, from here, there will be an intense activity, and not only of the Government and the Ministry, for a reconnaissance of the state of conservation of these infrastructures and for a plan of extraordinary interventions, which could give answers also in terms of employment as well as safety and protection of human life. There are - it has been said - major damage. I would ask the Presidency to be the bearer of the following instance: the government must recognize the state of emergency, as soon as possible, so that individuals and productive activities can see the damage suffered and can emerge from terror and fear. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and FI-BP Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u164	It is a commitment I willingly take.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u165	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u167	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, my speech as a Sardinian speaker is the same as that of my previous colleagues. I wish to express my condolences to the families of the umpteenth victim of situations that are now systematically repeated in Sardinia and take away human lives. Today a mother of the family has been missing; there is still someone missing and it is not known whether or not she will be found. I want to point out that objectively such facts are repeated systematically. What Senator Solinas said just now is absolutely true, shared and shared, even in my own requests. There are situations that are very painful. Yesterday the bridge that connects Cagliari to Capoterra jumped in twenty minutes of road; today, following the collapse of the bridge, it takes two hours and ten minutes. Unfortunately, we have similar situations, which have been so for five years, since the flood of 2013. If we do not intervene, there are tourist resorts that suffer from serious damage, such as Cala Gonone, with the famous bridge of Oloè, of which so much is discussed, that for five years it has been blocked; there is a bridge on the Olbia-Tempio inaccessible for five years and there were 19 deaths in that flood. I believe that the time has really come for the State and our Government to pay particular attention to the situation of Sardinia and to remedy the absolutely uncomfortable situations that affect the economy of the whole island. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u170	PAPATHEU (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor to mention a great Sicilian artist, Piero Guccione, who died in Modica a few days ago. And right here in the Senate, in this Palace of extraordinary beauty, his work has been exhibited, an oil on canvas of 2003, "Il nero e l'azzurro" (Black and Blue), and I like to imagine that this was a hope and a message for all of us parliamentarians: to live politics, as the master depicted the Mediterranean, without narrow borders and horizons. Guccione - as Mr Sgarbi mentioned these days - has been one of the highest international artists for the ability he had in his works to make the image of the Mediterranean exceptional. Equipped with a very clear talent, he collaborated at a young age with Renato Guttuso, becoming a reference point for his land and creating the Scicli Group, where he was born and where he gathered numerous painters of realist figures. I would like to remind you that he has enjoyed numerous and important international awards, exhibiting in particular in the U.S. museums - the Hirshhorn Museum in Washington and the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York - without failing to exhibit his works in Italy, participating in two editions, twenty years apart, of the Quadriennale of Rome and the Venice Biennale, becoming one of the most important and recognized Italian painters. With Master Guccione disappears one of the highest and most eminent testimonies of the Italian pictorial genius, who honored not only Sicily, but our country all for over half a century. I will conclude with a reflection. Although this artist lived the entire parable of life in a depressed area, he was able to send us an important message. Beauty exists everywhere, but one must know how to grasp it and he, with his art, has allowed all of us that it is possible to discover it in any reality. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u171	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u173	NATURAL (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw the attention of this House to a violent and unacceptable incident which took place on 5 October last near the reception centre for asylum seekers, the CARA di Borgo Mezzanone in Foggiano, where road control has risked turning into tragedy. Intense are the operations of contrast to the caporalate in Capitana, even more after the tragic road accidents that - as you will remember - led to the death last August of 16 immigrant workers who traveled on dilapidated vans on the streets of Foggiano. The greatest attention, therefore, is to the phenomenon of the caporalate. Evidenza was the institutional summit, last September, chaired by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Luigi Di Maio at the prefecture of Foggia. For several months, efforts have been stepped up in the implementation of the law enforcement plan to the Caporalate, given the inhumane conditions in which these workers are subjected both to work in the fields - many hours of work at low pay - and to transport in the countryside with gangherati means, as well as to housing of fortune. At the same time, a fruitful action has been launched to prevent and suppress crimes of illicit mediation and exploitation of labour, which has been brought to justice by several corporals, some of whom asylum seekers like their victims. It is likely that these last interventions have exacerbated the anger of those immigrants who do not intend to comply with the laws of our State. What has happened is very serious: a vile attack on two agents of the road of Cerignola in service. A Gambian citizen (later a multi-proposed result) driving a car did not stop at the height of the traffic by two policemen at a checkpoint. He not only continued the race, but also tried to invest the two agents. This was followed by a pursuit, even on foot, completed near the CAR where the dangerous driver tried to take refuge. Such CARA is a foggiano reception center, which has grown out of proportion, becoming a real free zone in which the Forces of Order enter at their own risk. Full solidarity with the agents. It must be pointed out that similar situations have already occurred and, therefore, even more meritorious is the commitment of the agents who risk their lives with dignity, a great spirit of sacrifice and a sense of duty. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u174	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u176	FOURTH (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I regret to point out that as soon as the rainy season comes, we must talk about floods, disasters, deaths and destruction. Here I would like to recall a violent flood in Ginosa, in the Province of Taranto, on October 7 and 8, 2013 (i.e. this time of year), with four deaths and significant damage. Yet, a couple of years earlier, another flood overwhelmed it, causing hundreds of evacuations and significant damage. The fragile Italy, for a long, very long time, has been neglected and devastated. Many natural, albeit dangerous, phenomena turn into catastrophes, with enormous casualties and damage. Moving on to these days, we remember Stefania Signore with the two sons who, last Thursday, in Calabria, was overwhelmed and killed by the fury of water and man's carelessness. We're also saddened by the Raganello's 10 victims. It is yesterday's news, then, the cloud in Sardinia, already remembered by other colleagues. Clouds, supercells and water bombs are increasingly extreme and frequent due to climate change. Therefore, we must combat them globally and protect ourselves locally. It is no longer tolerable to live with natural risks from defenseless, all the more so since natural phenomena tend to repeat themselves in the same places, in the same way. It is time to prevent announced tragedies. Prevention must also be the watchword in this House. The causes of hydrogeological risk must be eliminated and the territory maintained. Each euro spent will be a big multiplier investment. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u177	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u179	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on a personal note, because today in this House Mr Faraone has chosen to convey my words to the Commission yesterday in his whim in order to ridicule them. But what really happened? He had to say - and this, yes, has really happened - that for the income of citizenship the expenditure for the health of the Italians has been sacrificed. To this I replied, and nothing else, as he would like to pass. So he laughs and sings it, but the Italians don't laugh. I read: "from 2007 to 2015 food spending declined by an average of 12.2%, but in working families it collapsed by 19.4% and in those with an unemployed person of 28.9%. I repeat: food shopping, and not only less meat, but also less fish, fruits and vegetables. This increases the health risks of Italians. These are not my words: they have been reported repeatedly by the press reporting official statistics. And I refuted that. First of all, the income of citizenship has not taken resources from health spending, which has increased in the DEF, but then the opposite is true: together with dignity, the income of citizenship brings back to companies a sighed recovery of domestic consumption and to Italian families gives back access to medicines and a more adequate diet. I understand that it is annoyed if the working families and the unemployed see returned, at the initiative of the Movement, what the PD has removed from their mouths, making the poorest pay for the crisis and not the banks. And I do not care if he tries to mock me; or if he loves to cripple - as happened - the names of Ministers and Undersecretaries. I will not cripple yours, but on poverty in this House you should not joke. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u180	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-46.ana.u181	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 16 October, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.28 a.m.
