ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u3	The next item is questions and questions. The first question will be asked 3-00220 on the procedure for obtaining the visa of entry into Italy by citizens of non-European countries. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u4	Mr President, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation is particularly attentive to the need to facilitate the entry into Italy of entrepreneurs and investors from countries whose citizens are subject to visa requirements. To this end, significant measures have been taken in recent years to simplify visa application procedures by these categories of persons. Firstly, the Farnesina set the waiting time for the issue of visas on business in two working days. This is the type of entry visa used by businessmen for short stays, up to a maximum of 90 days, in the Schengen area. In fact, the business visa must be issued quickly, in order to allow economic operators to travel to our country even with little notice, in order to conduct negotiations and participate in meetings with active interlocutors in Italy. A reconnaissance of the data held by the administration shows that most business visas are actually issued within two days of the submission of the application. At the procedural level, business visas follow a simplified process, thanks to the tool of the so-called white lists, adopted in practice by the representations abroad. The commercial offices of the embassy on site constantly prepare and update the list of companies and entrepreneurs of countries that have important economic-commercial relations with the Italy system. This list is shared with the corresponding visa office of the diplomatic representation, which deals with the questions of those directly concerned as a matter of priority, simplifying to the maximum the relative procedure and containing the times of handling the requests. Moreover, for investors who intend to move permanently to Italy, the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have recently introduced a special type of visa, called Investor Visa for Italy. Visa applications for investors are submitted and processed through a dedicated IT platform, which simplifies the process of handling practices. To settle in Italy, foreign entrepreneurs also have other types of entrances available, such as self-employment and startups, which enjoy priority channels at the visa offices administratively and procedurally. In view of the structure, the extension of the diplomatic-consular network and the variety of visa types, the case-by-case assessment of the needs of the foreign business community makes it possible to take due account of the specific environmental context and the constant changes in local conditions. In this respect, the whitelist model allows for a rapid and flexible update of the list of beneficiaries of the facilities and to scale them according to the needs of the individual applicant.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u7	LANZI (M5S). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Undersecretary for his reply to my question, which I consider to be of fundamental importance in finding satisfaction with what he has said. In particular, the demand for a visa for those coming from disadvantaged countries outside the EU is often problematic. The need for foreign investors and entrepreneurs who want to come to our country is to have the possibility of lean visa procedures that allow you to plan your business relatively quickly, and on this you have given me satisfaction. Many investors find themselves in great difficulty participating in trade fairs and business meetings without certainty about the time of issue of the visa. There are many Italian associations and companies interested in the topic that I have been able to meet in these months, including Confindustria Ceramica and FederlegnoArredo, just to name two. Everyone would benefit from opening preferential channels for those who come to Italy to buy products. I therefore welcome the opening of the Ministry to the establishment of these facilitated procedures for those who want to come to invest in Italy coming from non-EU countries, even disadvantaged. From the African continent, from South East Asia, daily requests for visas come from people who are interested in visiting our country to buy goods and machinery and to participate in trade fairs. This possibility must certainly be supported. The ratio of the establishment of this list is to be found in the importance that foreign investment takes on more and more every year for Made in Italy. Most industrial and productive sectors benefit from export growth and I believe that facilitating the procedures for obtaining EU entry visas is an essential element not to run the risk of flight to other countries. I remember that for obtaining visas in countries like Germany it takes a few days (we too, as mentioned above, will soon adopt these procedures) and that potential investors, faced with the difficulties of obtaining visas in Italy, would soon turn elsewhere. We also do not underestimate the obstacles of bureaucracy in other areas; these are the ones that have been holding back the restart of our economy for years. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u8	Following is the question 3-00093 on repeated attacks on medical and health personnel at first aid points. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u9	Mr President, esteemed Senators, first of all I would like to thank the Senator, because by his inspection, I am also able to explain, in this House, the initiatives - some of which are legislative in nature - that this Government has already taken to deal with the worrying phenomenon of violence against health workers. Before I explain them, however, I would like to take advantage of this moment to outline the outlines of the problem, in the belief that a correct understanding of the roots of the phenomenon is in this case indispensable in order to identify the appropriate tools to deal with it. The occurrence of acts of violence in the health sector is a well-known phenomenon which goes back a long time: yet, despite the many requests made during the last parliamentary term, nothing has been done so far to guarantee qualified and differentiated protection to a category, unfortunately, characterized by a specific and greater risk factor. The Ministry of Health, in fact, has been well aware for a long time that practitioners in the health professions may, in the course of their work, be subjected to acts of violence with a higher frequency than in other sectors of work. The news, even more recent, gives us, in fact, numerous episodes of aggression, able to cause personal injuries even important. The risk factors responsible for such acts of violence are numerous, but the peculiar and recurrent element is the highly interactive and personal relationship that arises between the patient and the health care during the provision of health care and that often involves subjects, such as the patient himself or family members, who are in a state of vulnerability, frustration or loss of control, especially if under the influence of alcohol or drugs. This is why it is considered that the National Health Service, unlike in other areas, has a double responsibility: to take care of and protect those who need care, as well as to protect the safety and physical well-being of the health workers who work there. Cases of violence against health workers are also considered to be sentinel events, as they are signs of the presence in the working environment of situations of risk or vulnerability, which require the adoption of appropriate measures for the protection of workers. In view of this awareness, the Ministry of Health believes that it must intervene through a plurality of measures that can allow - seen as a whole, in a system perspective - the achievement of concrete and, above all, lasting results. First of all, as I have just said, a preventive approach is required to give safety, in all respects, to the working environment of healthcare professionals. In line with this approach, which recognizes importance also to the daily working conditions of health workers, on July 3, the Ministry of Health established, pursuant to article 5, paragraph 1, of legislative decree 9 April 2008, n. 81, the Committee for the address and evaluation of active policies and for the national coordination of surveillance activities in the field of health and safety at work, in which the aim is to pay particular attention to the phenomena, unfortunately increasingly frequent also in health, of aggressions to medical and non-medical personnel. Again in the above-mentioned preventive perspective, I would remind you that this House has just approved the decree-law security and immigration, within which a specific provision was intended to strengthen the preventive protection of health care. I am referring to the extension of the urban Daspo introduced by the so-called Minniti decree, also to health care. On the contrary, I take advantage of this opportunity to clarify better the contours of this institute that someone mistakenly wanted to name Daspo health care, evidently without understanding its contents well. The Minniti decree - with provisions that have not been retouched, however interesting here - has granted a mere right to the mayors to identify, within their territory, those public places to be protected, from the point of view of urban decor, through the introduction of a financial penalty and an obligation to remove from them those who, by their behaviour, prevent their access or use to others. The concrete identification of these sites was - and is still - put back to the mayors who can trace them within a wider typology of public places already established by the Minniti decree (schools, school complexes and university sites, museums, archaeological areas and parks, monumental complexes and other institutes and places of culture or at least interested by substantial tourist flows, or used as a public green) to which, with the recent decree security, health care facilities have been added (in addition to the areas destined to the conduct of fairs, markets and public shows). They are, with all evidence, absolutely preventive measures, as well as proportionate and differentiated, as they fall on the territories as a result of choices made by the level of government of greater proximity, such as the Municipality. Measures which, ultimately, far from preventing the use of health services by citizens, perhaps even the most needy - this circumstance, which has never been called into question - will serve, in a preventive perspective, to discourage inappropriate behaviour, facilitating, and not hindering, access to health care facilities, in a context of greater safety which will, of course, also benefit health workers themselves. The other important initiative already launched by this Government concerns, as is well known, the specific bill - which will begin its own process from this branch of Parliament - which has wished to devote itself to the phenomenon of violence against health workers. On the one hand, considering that the Ministry of Health does not have reliable data of all the episodes of violence to the detriment of the operators in the national territory, and in the awareness of having to face the phenomenon also through a careful monitoring of the episodes themselves, in the bill it is proposed the constitution of a national observatory on the safety of all the staff of the health, with the presence of representatives of the Regions and the Ministers of the inside, the justice and the job. The observatory is responsible for monitoring incidents of violence committed against health professionals in the performance of their duties and for promoting studies and analyses for the formulation of proposals and measures to reduce risk factors in the most exposed environments and to monitor the implementation of prevention measures taken to ensure safety at work. On the other hand, it has been envisaged as a specific aggravating penalty for committing acts of violence and threats against healthcare professionals in the performance of their duties: a measure which confers a particularly strengthened protection regime on healthcare professionals, certainly capable of increasing the deterrent from the commission of such crimes. I therefore conclude by trusting that Parliament will welcome these legislative proposals which go in the direction (which, I would say, cannot know political divisions) of the greater protection of the dignity of the work of all health workers. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u12	FARAONE (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Secretary-General for his reply. I should like to make a preliminary comment on the answer you gave me, Mr Undersecretary. We cannot treat this issue solely as a matter of public order, because it is no coincidence that the vast majority of episodes of aggression against medical personnel or safety generally occur in hospitals where hospitals work less. There is in fact a direct proportionality between the functioning of the first aid, the effective tools to reduce waiting lists, and in general of everything we think is an element that can measure the quality of our health system, and the phenomenon of aggressions in hospitals. The theme is yes that of greater security, and therefore that of greater intervention of the Forces of the order, but a physical aggression is a physical aggression and is treated by our penal code regardless of the fact (which would be an aggravating one) whether it happens in a hospital or not. Therefore, the theme is not only and exclusively how to act in the field of security and therefore the action of the Forces of the Order, but also to make the activities of our hospitals better and more efficient. So much so that, if the geographical map of Italy indicates in red the places where such episodes occur most frequently, it is noticed that the Mezzogiorno is almost the exclusive place where there are phenomena of aggression against medical personnel. This is directly linked to how our health care system works. Nothing can justify an aggression, for which it must be condemned and absolutely affected, but to make a reasoning on how to make our hospital structures work better, and therefore on how to reduce also a phenomenon that feeds and stimulates the conditions of public disorder in hospitals, is certainly important. Therefore, what I am asking the Government - and that was the reason for my question - is to intervene more decisively towards the regions on issues relating to first aid, waiting lists and functioning of the structures. This must be done above all by those who have the possibility to carry out an overall monitoring in the country and therefore is in a position to understand which Regions work best, in which areas and in which sectors. This is in order to be able to make a reasoning on best practices to be exported also to the Regions where perhaps the operation is less effective and less useful. I therefore address an invitation to the Ministry (despite Title V of the Constitution, which we would have wished to modify with reference to the health sector, because we think that the national health system should be unique) to carry out, even in the Permanent Conference for the Relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, a replacement role where certain Regions are lacking, suggesting to them the best paths. It is good that there is more security, more attention, more support for law enforcement and medical staff in the hospital, but at the same time action must be taken to make hospitals work better, as a better tool to reduce disorders in health facilities.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u13	Following is Question 3-00281 on the stabilisation of workers in the maritime sector. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u14	Mr President, with regard to this question concerning the rules governing the recruitment of seafarers, I represent the following. As reported by the honourable interrogators and already specified by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy with question No 24 of 2014, the recalled discipline in the matter of term contract contained in the code of navigation is of special character. Article 1 of the Code provides that: In the field of navigation, sea, inland and air, the provisions contained within the Code as well as the laws, regulations, corporate rules and uses thereof shall apply. The same provision goes on to state that: "Where there are no provisions of the right to navigation and there are no provisions applicable by analogy, civil law" shall apply. With regard to the rules on time contracts for seafarers, therefore, it is necessary to refer expressly to the navigation code, which is a special rule derogating from the ordinary rules in this field. In particular, Article 325 provides that: (a) for a given journey or for several journeys; (b) fixed-term; In addition: "At the effects of the contract of enlistment, by journey means the complex of the crossings between port of loading and port of last destination, in addition to the eventual crossing in ballast to reach the port of loading. The measure and components of remuneration are determined and regulated by the rules of collective labour agreements. (a) a fixed sum for the entire duration of the journey; (b) in a fixed sum per month or other period of time; (c) in the form of participation in the hire or other revenue or products of the journey, with the fixing of a minimum guaranteed; (d) part in the form of a fixed periodic sum and part in the form of participation in freight or other income or products. The following Article 326, which was also referred to by the honourable Members, states instead that: The fixed-term contract and the contract for more than one journey may not be concluded for more than one year; any longer term contract shall be deemed to be for an indefinite period. In addition: If, by virtue of several travel contracts, or by more than one fixed-term contract, or by more than one contract of one type or of the other, the enrollment is continuously employed by the same shipowner for a period of more than one year, the enlistment relationship shall be governed by the rules relating to the contract without a time limit. For the purposes of Article 326, as expressly indicated in the following paragraph: The provision of the service shall be considered to be uninterrupted when a period of not more than 60 days between the termination of a contract and the conclusion of the subsequent contract is between the termination of a contract and the conclusion of the subsequent contract. In relation to what is stated in the question, and in the light of what is expressly indicated within the legislation, I highlight, as indicated in the question n 24 of 2014 of the Ministry of Labour and social policies, that regarding the succession of the aforementioned types of work in term, the norm in question - considering also uninterrupted the performance rendered in the hypotheses in which between a contract and the other does not intervene a period of more than sixty days - prepares safeguards against possible abuses regarding the use of such contractual form. In any event, I represent that, within the framework of the next monitoring planning document for 2019, to be adopted in the central committee chaired by the Minister for Labour and Social Policy (Article 3 of Legislative Decree No. 124 of 2004), specific emphasis will be given to the need to verify compliance with the rules on fixed-term contracts. Finally, this Dicastery - through coordination with colleagues from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, responsible for navigation code matters - will undertake an in-depth assessment of the problem described by the honourable Members in question, in order to avoid the repetition of practices in the maritime workers sector. As already done with the approval of the Dignity Decree, this Government has as its fundamental objective the dignity of the workers through the reduction of the precariousness and the increase of the protections of all those categories of workers most exposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u17	ANASTASI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, thank you for your long and detailed reply. I'm satisfied. The government has touched on the two fundamental issues: controls and the precariousness of work. I am very concerned, however, about the situation in the sector. It's really untenable. We know, the question of seafarers was born in 1998, when the new rules allowed boarding at broken prices of non-Italian personnel who had to favour shipowners and who, on the other hand, brought Italian marines to their knees. While the Italian boys leave the nautical institutes and find no job or opportunity to form themselves and to make career in the merchant navy, the shipowners, with the tacit consent of the politics, have boarded more and more foreign or extra-Community staff, with contracts of value often inferior of three or four times those Italian ones, on which the shipowners have continued to take advantage of the facilities, also because of the lacked controls and, above all, because of a total disinterest of the politics itself. Ours is one of the most experienced marineries in the world and in these years - as the minister Di Maio has remembered - has been victim of the most disparate business, from that of the formation (once public and today for payment) to that of the assumptions. The results of these bad policies have been thousands of Italian marine unemployed, crews underpaid and - third, but not least - the progressive dismantling of the yet another strategic section for our Nation. I am convinced that, thanks to this Government of the change, finally the norms will be applied and the tax benefits of the international register will be limited to the ships that board only Italian or communitarian crews on the routes of cabotage and continuity. The world goes towards the progressive reduction of the staff boarded on the ships and to less amount of staff will correspond an increasing demand for professionalism and specialization. Our marines and our sailors are able to be at the top of the world and for this reason they must be valued and not exploited, underpaid or underemployed. A law that came into force this summer would have solved many of the problems indicated, but three years after its approval it was not enough to make it operational, nor is it known when it will be able to explain its effects. I am convinced that our Government will have the sensitivity, intelligence and foresight to resolve this long-standing issue. Our country needs this sector and needs our seafarers. Let's defend ourselves and defend them. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u18	2-00007, with abbreviated procedure, pursuant to Rule 156- bis of the Regulation, on the closure of the Bekaert plant of Figline-Incisa Valdarno. I call Senator Parrini to illustrate this questioning.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u19	Mr President, compared to the time when the questioning was submitted, several months have passed and, therefore, events have taken place which at this moment make it urgent to ask the Government questions slightly different from those contained in the questioning. Bekaert is a very important company in central Tuscany. It is located in Valdarno, in the municipality of Figline and Incisa Valdarno and employs 318 workers. It was the subject, a few years ago, of a takeover by a multinational company based in Belgium, which in recent months announced the will to close the plant, in a way that caused dismay in the Government itself, which visited the plant with the Minister for Economic Development, throughout the local community, among the citizens and in the local institutions, such as the Region and the municipal administration. There has been widespread solidarity and many have spoken out to avert the predatory action announced by Bekaert. At this moment we are in a situation characterized by the restoration of the extraordinary redundancy fund for termination, which will give a little 'breath in order to seek a solution for the workers; this breath coincides with a year of time. However, there is one problem that remains open, because of course the restoration of the redundancy fund creates an opportunity but cannot be a way of solving the problem. The solution to the problem is only in the reindustrialization, therefore in the search for a serious investor that gives new life to this plant, in the same field in which it now operates or in another. What I ask the government is to specify what is being done so that the search for this investor will bear fruit. We know well, for having seen so many disputes of this type, that it is important to find not just any investor but persons with seriousness, that they are qualified and that they do not reproduce ways of acting that so much concern, and then in the end also damage, have created in this territory. This research must be pressing and intense; the Minister for Economic Development and his team can and must play a very important and incisive role. I also think it is important that they be kept constantly informed of developments in local communities and institutions, trade union organisations and workers, who obviously find themselves in a state of distress that the re-introduction of social shock absorbers has only attenuated but cannot erase. As a Democratic Party, through our MEPs, we also had a meeting on 12 September with the European Commissioner for Competition, Margrethe Vestager, to see if there had been any violation of European rules in the choices of the Belgian multinational Bekaert. An investigation has been opened and, for the time being, there are no violations. Moreover, I would like to make it clear that the anti-delocalisation clause that was introduced in one of the measures launched before the summer recess by the Government cannot be applied, because it is a company based in the European Union and that wants to relocate the production of children to another country of the European Union, in particular Romania. We shared the choice of re-introduction of the IGC for termination. Among other things, this was done with the funds allocated by the 2015 labour reform and literally importing the causality that that reform provided for restructuring. But of course we have great concern about the possibility of finding a reindustrialization solution in the near future. We ask the government for the utmost commitment and we ask if there is any news, because obviously a whole community, the one that has stood up for the workers, waits with the suspended breath for positive evolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u20	The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u21	Mr President, I have to say that the honourable Member has already given the basic answer, which is, of course, complete with the information I have collected. Since 2016, the Ministry of Economic Development has been following the events of the Belgian multinational Bekaert. I briefly summarize the steps taken by the Government in order to give a more positive solution to what seemed to be an irreversible crisis. On June 23, 2018, Bekaert announced the decision to close the sites of Figline and Incisa Valdarno, dedicated to the production of steel reinforcements for tyres, and to suspend work activities for 318 employees, to relocate to Romania, without any prior comparison and without any explanation on the true reasons that led the property to such a serious act. This decision raised considerable concerns, as at a previous meeting held at the Ministry of Economic Development on 29 March 2018, the representatives of the multinational in question had outlined a plan concerning the objectives and progress of their ongoing projects related to the website of Figline Valdarno, stating that the mission of the plant was to become leader in the industrialization of steel reinforcements for tyres. In addition, in the light of a sharp deterioration in the company's performance, the commitment to discuss paths and solutions shared with the workers with the trade unions was envisaged. On 27 June 2018, at a further meeting attended by representatives of national and territorial institutions, as well as trade unions, but not representatives of Bekaert, the Ministry of Economic Development reiterated both the seriousness of the decision itself, considered harmful to the families involved and the economy of the territory, and the ways in which it was taken, since it had been adopted without any form of contradictory, unlike what had previously been stated. As a result, the Ministry of Economic Development has strongly called for the immediate withdrawal of dismissals and the start of a more serious and concrete confrontation. On 30 July 2018, at a further meeting, a plan was read and sent by Bekaert to the Ministry of Economic Development to solve the problems that would arise from the closure of the aforementioned site. This plan, however, although it showed greater availability on the part of the property, did not meet the main demand expressed by the trade unions, i.e. the suspension of the collective mobility procedure. Finally, after multiple contacts, interlocations and meetings, on 3 October, at the headquarters of the Ministry of Economic Development, an agreement was signed on the social plan and on the new shock absorbers for the workers of the Figline Valdarno plant of the Belgian multinational Bekaert. The agreement provided for a number of instruments, incentives and activities aimed at reindustrialisation of the site and relocation of workers, as well as a number of measures - I am pleased to say - to protect them. Among these, I would like to mention the suspension of the collective dismissal procedure; the one-year integration fund, starting from 1 January 2019 (possibility made possible by Article 44 of Decree-Law No.109 of 28 September 2018,); incentives for the exodus, which include three age ranges for each group. In the same is also found the commitment of the various subjects present on the territory - from the enterprises to the local institutions - that they have shared the objective of wanting to recover the crisis of the Bekaer, encouraging, on the one hand, the new subjects that could be interested to settle in that productive area and, on the other, rewarding those who decide to hire the workers elsewhere. In relation to the industrial plan, I would like to stress that the production of the company will continue until 31 December 2018 and its implementation will be monitored by the Ministry of Economic Development through meetings with the parties on a monthly basis. These facts show that the Ministry of Economic Development has paid the greatest attention to the Bekaert affair and has actively and concretely undertaken to find a solution to the related problems. In particular, the same has acted in general through a close to the phenomenon of the continuous relocations that afflict the Country, with the introduction of sanctions to the enterprises that after having received public contributions decide to relocate (with the decree-law 12 July 2018, n. 87, so-called decree dignity, converted with the law 9 August 2018, n. 96) and, specifically, reintroducing the fund integration for termination, that had been removed from the norms on the jobs act, wanted firmly by the Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u24	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, the reconstruction done by the representative of the Government is correct. I can only reiterate that the introduction of the cease-fire fund gives a breath of oxygen but is not a solution. The agreement that was concluded on 3 October last avoids the sinking of things, but, in itself, does not represent the guarantee that, at the end of the year of Cassa Integrazione, we will be able to give an industrial future to this plant and work to the workers affected by the choice of Bekaert. I understand that the activities aimed at identifying a serious and qualified investor, who can take over the plant and reindustrialise it, are at a preliminary stage and there are still no concrete outlets on the ground. I therefore recommend the utmost attention; the role that the Ministry for Economic Development can and will play is essential because we know well that reindustrializations do not rain from heaven, but must be created and the work that the Ministry does in this sense is decisive. Obviously they will contribute loyally and with the will to solve the problem local communities, mayors and all forces that are able to solicit business interests that can result in the solution of the problem. I also renew the demand to keep constantly informed workers, trade union organizations, the mayor of the municipality where the plant is located and all the local forces, of the developments that there are, because having all the information updated and being all aligned on the level of information allows us to do better the team work that the workers ask us for. After all, we are faced with an affair in which political colors must take a step back and we must all push for a problem that has generated very strong anguish and concern in an entire community to be overcome.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u25	I greet and thank the representatives of the Government. The questioning and questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 10.16 a.m. and resumed at 3.50 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u26	The next item is the immediate questions (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for the Family and Disability and the Minister for Public Administration will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Steger has the right to explain the question 3-00353 on the simplification of the procedures for issuing and delivering the passport, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u27	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have introduced bureaucratic simplifications aimed at simplifying the procedures for issuing the passport. In particular, a few years ago, the Department of Public Security of the Ministry of the Interior signed an agreement with Posteitaliane SpA for the activation of a service for the delivery to the home of the document. Despite the simplifications introduced on the side of the authorisations and the withdrawal of the passport, however, all the other preliminary tasks have remained unchanged. For this reason, the citizen is still obliged to present a telematic mark (from 73.50 euros) that must buy in a resale of marked values and the receipt of the payment of 42.50 euros, to be made exclusively at the post offices. These are obligations which, regardless of the costs incurred, still constitute a bureaucratic burden on the overall timing of the whole procedure, all to the detriment of the citizen. For years, the entire public administrative activity has focused on the implementation of a process of general deburocratization that, on the basis of the criteria of economicity and effectiveness, streamlines the procedures, promoting digitisation and simplifying the relationship between public administrations and private individuals. For these reasons, I would ask you, Minister, if you do not consider it possible to introduce further simplifications, which are also intended to simplify the preliminary tasks, for example by providing for a one-stop shop at which payments - which are currently to be made in two separate places - can be made at the same time and also withdraw the requested document. It is a small change, but we believe it is focused on the new direction of the government, aimed at simplifying procedures in favour of the citizen.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u28	The Minister for the Interior, Senator Salvini, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u29	Mr President, I would like to thank the senator for his question, which allows me to remind him that Minister Giulia Bongiorno is working on the simplification decree-law, which will more generally concern families, businesses and building practices. It is the priority of the League and of the entire Government to make life easier for citizens, going less around various branches and filling out fewer forms. Returning to the subject to which you refer, the Ministry of the Interior concluded in October 2014 an agreement with Posteitaliane SpA to offer citizens, precisely to simplify the bureaucratic burden, the possibility to receive at home the electronic passport. This Convention expires on 31 December this year and is currently being renewed. We are working to improve this convention. In order to further facilitate the procedure for issuing the travel document from the payment of the economic charges, such as the administrative mark and the payment for the issue of the document, a feasibility hypothesis is currently being studied - and my offices are working on it - for the simplification of the aforementioned procedures through a unified electronic payment system. In particular, it is considering its possible application in accordance with Article 5 of the Digital Administration Code, which allows payments to public administration in standardised IT mode, through payment service providers. The aim is, of course, to make such payments directly available to the citizen on the institution's portal or app, i.e. through the interconnection channels of banks or other branches, such as agencies, home banking, ATMs or post offices. This hypothesis also sees the support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Mr Bongiorno is working on it with regard to the civil service. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself has already activated this simplified form of passport application for Italian citizens residing abroad, who can make, in a single solution, without going around the eighteen churches, the payment of the administrative commission and the cost of the booklet directly to the consular office in local currency. I hope I've been quite exhaustive. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u30	Senator Steger has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u31	I thank the Minister for the government's willingness to do so. In fact, it must be said that Italy plays a leading role in Europe in the digitalisation of PAs. We are not taillights, because Italy has on this front a record not to be conquered, but to be maintained. So I hope that, as soon as possible, the Government will also be able to achieve this simplification, which for the citizen and for all of us is a need felt.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u32	Senator Grenato has the right to explain the question 3-00297 on the extraordinary procedures for the recruitment of personnel in the National Firefighters Corps, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u33	Minister, in the budget law for 2018 some rules have been included, among others, on stabilisation for the voluntary staff of the National Firefighter Corps. In particular, it is a reserve of places, within the framework of extraordinary recruitment procedures, for the so-called discontinuous precarious persons enrolled in the list established for the needs of the central and peripheral structures of the Body, in possession of certain requirements. According to Legislative Decree no. 139 of 2006 such staff, in fact, can be the subject of possible recruitments in derogation, with consequent transformation of the relationship of service in relation to employment with the administration. As you will recall, Minister, the issue of the stabilisation of employment relations is also present within the government contract. I am pleased to note that even in the budget law for 2019, article 31, paragraph 3, are already provided for recruitment for this staff, albeit in the alternative. This fact shows that the Government's attention is still high on the subject. We must remember that in the case of extraordinary weather events - and unfortunately in Italy there are more and more frequent phenomena - the intervention queues for requests for help to firemen are often quite numerous. This is why it is important to follow up legislative forecasts and to ensure the stabilisation of the employment relationship of staff who are already trained and able, first and foremost, for the safety of citizens, to ensure timely interventions and adequate standards of efficiency. So, Minister, I ask you what measures have been taken and what are you going to take, including timing and operating procedures, to comply with the provisions that provide for the recruitment of such staff in the national fire department, the so-called discontinuous precariousnesses, and what steps are you going to take to extend - as we need them in a territory increasingly affected by natural disasters from North to South - the powers of recruitment of your administration. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the Interior, Senator Salvini, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u34	Thank you, Senator Garnet, I think that the Senate Assembly could take advantage of the live television to give to these heroes, who are the firemen, the applause for what they do every day at the service of our community. [[Applause]] Let me remind you: 23,000 speeches only on the last days of bad weather; of just applause, however, we do not live, as not even of just pats on the shoulders; therefore I come to the substance. Coming to the subject of the question, I would like to stress that the Minister of the Interior has always felt the need to exploit - from well before me, of course - and not to disperse the professionalism acquired by the voluntary staff of the fire department in support of the operational capacity of the entire apparatus of emergency technical assistance. There have been a number of initiatives, including regulatory ones, in this respect: I refer to the recent provisions which have raised the reserve of posts for volunteers from 25% to 35% in the context of the public competition for the qualification of firefighter and those which have introduced an additional reserve of 10% of the places available in all other access competitions in the roles of the National Corps. The measures referred to by the honourable Member in the budget law of last year, therefore of 2018, which provide for the extraordinary recruitment of firefighters, reserved for voluntary personnel, are also dedicated to the stabilisation of volunteers, within the limit of 30% of the annual quotas. This will allow us, over a five-year period, to stabilize 480 volunteers who meet the requirements of the law. Additional 28 units of voluntary personnel, with particular reference to the cynophilous nuclei of the fire department - which, for example, we appreciated on the occasion, alas, of the Genoa disaster - can be assumed on the basis of a decree of 2017. In order to start the aforementioned stabilisation procedures, I inform you that last 26 October - then ten days ago - I signed the decree that identifies the abbreviated modalities of the training course, the criteria of verification of the operational suitability of the discontinuous personnel and the modalities of completion of the selective procedures. In addition, in the Security Decree, the conversion of which this Assembly approved yesterday, the appropriations for the remuneration of voluntary fire department staff were increased by 6 million euros for 2019 and 5 million euros from 2020, increasing the annual calls. More generally, we are determined to strengthen the capabilities of the National Firefighter Corps by strengthening the staff. [[Call the president back.]] In conclusion, Mr President, in the draft budget law of 2019, which will come into discussion in the near future, we have foreseen the recruitment of 1,500 firefighters according to the following timetable: 650 men from 10 May 2019; 200 from 1 September 2019; another 650 from 1 April 2020. Further 195 discontinuous volunteers will be able to be stabilised when staffing is increased. It seems to me that numbers, numbers and dates honor the heroic mission these girls and these guys carry out every day. I invite you to add - as I did a few days ago - to the 52,000 followers of the Instagram page of the Firefighters, because understanding what they do every day is truly a unique emotion. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u35	He has the right to intervene in replica of Senator Garnet for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u36	Minister, thank you, because I have noticed that the attention of this Government is very high on the subject. In fact, these children face, in addition to personal sacrifices even huge, to keep always trained and prepared, costs to be always available to any call. We therefore hope that this stabilisation will continue in any case and perhaps also gain some wider scope, as far as possible. Thank you, however, for your satisfactory reply. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u37	Senator De Bertoldi has the right to explain question 3-00351 on the legal treatment of children born through heterologous fertilization or surrogacy techniques, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u38	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address Mr Fontana on this subject, in the hope that his sensitivity, which has been demonstrated on many occasions publicly on these issues, will be able to find concrete results which are clearly at our heart. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, about the recognition of the children of same-parent couples. However, before entering briefly on the subject, I suggest that the speaker is a liberal Catholic, not a obscurantist but a fervent democrat, a person who, however, like all of us on the Italian right, feels particularly, in his heart and in his thought, respect for ethics and his own values. Well, Minister, in recent months my Trentino has also had cases of registration in the records of children born according to technicalities that constitute a crime in our country. I'm talking about uterus for rent and heterologous fertilization, that is, technicality that is not allowed to same-sex couples in our country. The legislation, however, is evaded by going abroad, then returning to Italy and taking advantage of a legislation that is a little 'lacundated and some particularly daring jurisprudential interpretation - it happens - and perhaps damaged by a libertarian culture that has allowed everything. This led, therefore, to the recognition of children of same-sex couples. At this point, I ask you, Minister, what the Government intends to do; what, in practice, the Government wants to do to ensure that we return, first of all, to a legal system, that we return to compliance with the law that, precisely, does not provide for this. Above all, that we do not play on the skin of children, because the sexual habits of each one are protected by everyone, and I am the first supporter of them, but the growth of children must also take place according to the respect of our values, of our tradition. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u39	The Minister for Family Affairs and Disability, Mr Fontana, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I am responding to an act which is mainly inherent in a matter, that of the civil state, for which the Ministry of the Interior is responsible, pursuant to Article 54 of the single text of the local authorities. In this regard, after hearing the competent offices of the said Ministry, I represent the following. The events relating to the registration and transcription of acts of birth of children of same-parent couples are the subject of several jurisprudential rulings. Among the many examples that could be mentioned in this regard, I limit myself to recalling the recent cases of requests for full transcripts of the foreign birth certificate indicating two mothers, or two fathers, of applications for registration in the appropriate register of the Italian birth certificate indicating two parents of the same sex and of request for transcription of the foreign judgment amending the foreign birth certificate, indicating only one parent, so already transcribed in Italy, by the addition of a second parent of the same sex. On the substance of the matter, I can first repeat what the Minister of the Interior said earlier in response to a similar act of inspection union, namely that there are some firm points. The first is that according to the current law of civil status the acts of birth are formed and are entered in the relative registers indicating, as parents, the mother giving birth and the biological father. This principle is also reaffirmed with reference to the annotation in the act of birth of the recognition of sonship which, always, requires prior verification by the reporting agent of the condition of paternity or motherhood. The second is that Article 12 of Law No 40 of 2004, on medically assisted procreation rules, has considered the practices of the womb for rent and the sale of human gametes as criminal cases. On the other hand, the Constitutional Court itself, in judgment No 272 of 2017, stressed that surrogacy is a practice that intolerablely offends the dignity of women and deeply undermines human relations. Therefore, if the prohibition of gestation for others is present in our order, it must be enforced in concrete terms, avoiding that the recourse abroad to such practices is translated, then, with the entry into Italy of the minor in a continuous circumventment of a prohibition that in the national order is aimed at preserving fundamental values, such as, first, the dignity of the woman, which in this way risks being reduced to mere object. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u41	I give the floor to Senator De Bertoldi to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u42	Mr President, I am pleased with the Minister's philosophical and thoughtful approach, but I allow myself to be a little less so in the concrete results of his reply, in the sense that I did not understand exactly how the Government wants to behave in order to prevent what has happened to date from happening again, namely - to understand us - so that children of the same sex may not still be enrolled in Trento, Rovereto or Turin. In this regard, I would also like to remind the Minister and the Government that the Brothers of Italy Group, through my first signatory and with my colleague Rauti as the second signatory, presented on June 19, then five months ago, a specific bill, in order to regulate unequivocally and therefore link thought and philosophy with concreteness, as we would like. I therefore call on the Minister and the Government to ensure that this bill is incardinated as soon as possible and can lead to a clear response, which concerns all of us, to the life and growth of our children.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u43	Senator Patriarch has the right to explain the question 3-00354 on the implementation of the proposed measures in support of families, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u44	Mr Minister, our question simply wanted to pick up your statements, I must say numerous and challenging, sometimes personal and sometimes rightly made as Minister of the Republic. We have collected them and we would like to ask you in some way for an account, to know where we are. Minister, I simply list them, because the family cares about you, cares about all of us and is the heart of the country. As we all know, and as you also know, that you are a long-term Member of Parliament - I am in the second parliamentary term - the family needs concrete facts. It is true that the family is at the center of the country, we all say so and we declare it, but then, Minister, the current government really measures on this issue if it proposes concrete facts. So I would just like to list your statements, Minister, to ask you very calmly what you intend to propose in the next budget law and in the next measures. You have proposed free kindergartens and the raising of maternity allowances. In his statements, Minister, he proposed facilities for the reimbursement of baby sitters, reconciliation measures between work and family life and zero VAT for neonatal products and children. Minister, your political strength, the League, has proposed in my Region the relaunch of the consultors and you have also proposed the restoration of the closed birth points in our country and contributory reductions for the companies that keep the mothers at work after the birth of the children. I ask you again, Minister, what you intend to do about corporate welfare. We have worked on these measures in the previous legislature and working on corporate welfare means activating reconciliation measures between working life and family life. I would like to ask you again, Minister, what you expect to do to relaunch adoptions: as you know, international adoptions have fallen in recent years and in the proposal that your Government has made these days to relaunch them. I would ask you, therefore, also about this issue, in view of the budgetary law and the forthcoming measures, how you intend to proceed in practice and in practice. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Family Affairs and Disability, Mr Fontana, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u45	Mr President, I would like to thank the Senator for the opportunity he has given me, to start talking a little about the measures the Government intends to take in favour of the family and which are partly already contained in the draft budget law and in part are being defined for the outcome of the parliamentary examination. In the budget law we managed to obtain, for the family, 300 million euros for the three-year period 2019-2021 and an additional 100 million euros for each following year. I would like to point out that I intend to allocate these funds primarily for corporate welfare, to support companies that invest in pro-family and pro-birth projects. In this respect I have also opened a technical table, in which we work on the best experiences already in place. The budget also provides for an increase of EUR 120 million per year for social policies and EUR 100 million - on the non-self-sufficiency fund - from EUR 450 million per year to around EUR 550 million per year. I would remind you that the issue of non-self-sufficiency and taking over is closely linked to family issues. With regard to measures for kindergartens, EUR 960 million will be allocated over the next three years and we are working to make the measure really effective and usable, as well as to ensure - where possible - an increase of 50%. We can therefore say that the total investment in the budget for the family now exceeds EUR 1 billion. But of course we want to do even more. To protect motherhood, which is a very important issue for me, I will propose measures to ensure greater flexibility in the use of maternity leave, both with regard to the age limit of the child within which it is possible to obtain leave, and with regard to the economic treatment received. In particular, I intend to increase the age of the child by up to 16 years - compared to the current 12 years - by which the parent is allowed access to leave; I will propose flexibility in contraction and on a voluntary basis, granting the mother who requires it the possibility of taking a three-month leave with 60% of the salary allowance, as an alternative to the current six months at 30% of the salary; then I will provide for further life-work conciliation measures such as the possibility to make maternity leave more flexible; I will also take action on measures relating to maternal assistants, including in favour of the promotion of agile work, giving priority to requests for the execution of this type of work to workers in the three years following the period of use of maternity leave, as well as those with children in a situation of disability. It is in the process of deepening, in order to assess the financial compatibility of VAT at zero, or in any case facilitated for those who have to take advantage of products for early childhood. I also remember that citizenship income is also a measure aimed at supporting families in an uncomfortable situation. Finally, in adherence also to some agendas accepted by the Government, we will extend the compulsory paternity leave also for the year 2019. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u46	I have the floor to answer Senator Pharaoh for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u47	Minister, I only have two minutes, which are enough for me to express my disapproval and indignation at your silence over Rocco Casalino's words against Down people, and my indignation and disapproval of your silence against Beppe Grillo when you attacked, insulted, offended autistic people. She's there and she makes crusades for ideas that I don't share about the family, but I see her determined. At the same time, I do not see the same crusades and the same determination to defend people with disabilities. I say this with regret, because I believe that you, when you assumed the position of Minister of Disability, took on the role of a sort of trade unionist of disabled people and their families. Today I was looking at the agencies anxiously for a statement from him saying something about someone who is the spokesman for the President of the Council: he is not a passerby, but the spokesman for the President of the Council, so he is paid by the State; he is there and he has insulted people with disabilities and Down children in particular. We expect a defense from you. There are no party reasons, there are no reasons for the need to hold a government. If someone attacks people with disabilities, beyond who they are, you have the duty, as Minister of Disability, to say that someone is doing a dirty thing. And we forcefully say - since you didn't - that, like Mr. Casalino, Down people suck...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u48	Senator Pharaoh...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u49	FARAONE (PD). ...we suck at him and a government that still keeps him there. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u50	As you know, the Minister cannot reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u51	Mr President, Minister, since the reading of the 2019 Budget Act, which began its examination in the House of Deputies, it appears that new resources have been allocated to the public employment sector for the contractual renewals of employees in the next administrations of the three years 2019-2021. These resources, which must be calculated net of the contribution and tax revenues generated, amounted to 700 million in 2019, one billion in 2020 and 1.3 billion from 2021, while for the recruitment of staff in the state sector, in addition to the assumptions provided for in current legislation, 230 million in 2019, 570 million in 2020 and 760 million in 2021 were allocated. For the Forza Italia Group, these resources are therefore few. Instead, many resources are announced, still in the budget law, to a special fund containing more than 9 billion euros for the income of citizenship, moreover with the singular initiative to allocate resources in deficit, that is, asking for money to the Italians, that is to our citizens, through the issuance of new public debt. This is all that can be found in the law that allocates resources to various sections of the public administration, in which are also included the recruitments for the fundamental sections of the Police Forces, that just ago Minister Salvini remembered strongly. Moreover, we at Forza Italia want to applaud our police forces, but I hope that the entire Senate Assembly will once again applaud what our police forces do every day. [[Applause.]] It should also be remembered that the contractual renewals which are now taking place have been decided in the previous parliamentary term. I shall conclude by saying that there are few thousands of recruitments in the security sectors, in the face of a shortage of staff of more than 25,000. To these are added 850 new firefighters from May 2019, as Minister Salvini said, but to us they serve immediately. I would ask you, Minister, if you really have a precise plan to tackle in an organic way the enormous problems that arise from a public administration often badly organized, beyond the gaps of staff, in which there is still no reward system and appropriate sanctions for a country that is the seventh world power. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u52	The Minister for Public Administration, Senator Bongiorno, may reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u53	Mr President, I have very clear ideas, in the sense that in the past, particularly in the last 15 years, funds have always been cut off from the public administration, which has always been considered the sector in which to cut, perhaps because it was easy, perhaps for the assembly. I must say that there has already been a reversal of the trend, which, Senator Berardi, can find both in the draft budget law and in the draft law concreteness. I call on you to check in this last measure an absolute novelty. It is usually said that we are hiring; instead, I have indicated the strategic sectors of the public administration in which to hire. Today, in fact, it is not necessary to hire staff to keep him behind desks, but in certain areas: digitisation, simplification, the use of European funds. In the draft budget law we have also indicated how to implement the process of modernising public administration and increasing performance. However, since you referred to numbers, it's only fair that I answer them with numbers. In the draft budget law are expected substantial assumptions that are added to the ordinary ones, in relation to which have been allocated, for the three years 2019-2021, total 870 million euros. I must say, but it already came from Minister Salvini's reply, which I believe is undeniable the attention to the areas of order and public security, justice, cultural goods, the environment, research and job protection, providing for an extraordinary plan of recruitment that will actually take place in the years 2019 to 2023. I give you a few numbers: 6,150 personnel units of the Police Forces; as Minister Salvini said, 1,500 firefighters; 725 units for the civil administration of the interior; 50 units for the prefectial career; 3,000 administrative offices, plus 600 ordinary magistrates and additional units of administrative magistrates; 1,000 units for the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities; 420 units for the Ministry of the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea; 1,000 researchers at universities; 1,000 labour inspectors. I believe that these figures already indicate my policy: cut off cuts and yes to investing in public administration. This choice of mine is also confirmed by the specific forecasts for funding the fund for the reordering of the Police and the Armed Forces for an amount of 70 million euros and the burdens for national collective bargaining for the three-year period 2019-2021. Finally, there is an additional budget of 200 million for the financing of the operational services of the Police, Armed Forces and Fire Departments. In addition to the draft budget law, the Government is identifying ways to ensure continuity in the provision of health care and educational-school services. Finally, it's wrong for me to cut public administration. I put it all in: you have to invest because public administration must be an asset of the country. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u54	I give the floor to Senator Berardi to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u55	Mr President, Minister, we certainly appreciate the good intentions shown as the Forza Italia Group, but the numbers are not consequent: 230 million is a good figure for 2019 for new recruitments, but it is small when compared with 9 billion for citizenship income, which is genuinely useless. I want to understand how you can explain to a policeman, a policeman, a firefighter or someone who works in the defense or police sector and has a wife and a dependent child, and perhaps gets to take about 1,500 euros a month, that a man, with a wife and a dependent child, with the income of citizenship can reach 1,800 euros a month without doing anything. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Let's remember that our police force men risk their lives every day. The citizens are asking us for security - and we agree on that - but our police forces are asking for more human and economic resources. Let's leave aside the tweets, Facebook and social media for once and move from talk to action. We need them today; we need new recruitment into the police force from yesterday, not to May, June or August. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u56	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u57	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute including Polo 1 - Giovanni Pascoli in Galatina, in the province of Lecce, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u60	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, a video was shot in this House at about 9 p.m. on Tuesday before I spoke. The problem is not the video shot, even if it would be forbidden. The problem is, in that video, I get crazy and crazy. He may not like it or be misconsidered, perhaps by overwhelming souls, but I'm neither crazy nor out of my mind. President, I feel responsibility and emotion in this House. Every day and, fortunately, every time I come into this House, even though I am in the second parliamentary term, I get excited. Knowing that I have to intervene on behalf of the Italian people and having the opportunity to speak makes me feel not only a certain responsibility - I am done in a certain way - but also so much emotion, as I feel at the moment. I had therefore prepared the speech, which is obviously written, as I think so many other colleagues do, for ten minutes, and then I was suggested that it might have been appropriate to shorten it a little. And so I have reread it, recursted and reread it again, also to prevent the President from interrupting me at a time when perhaps I was still talking, because precisely there is the great responsibility to do well and to do well for what you know how to do, and doing it best. In conclusion, I simply want to say that I am made in this way. I try to do my job well and, to do well, sometimes I also need to read, reread, correct, recur. And so, I'm telling you, it's gonna happen again. [[Applause from the M5S, FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u63	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I will be very quick. As the Presidency knows, this House works for a sum of effects, those produced by the Rules of Procedure, of course, and those produced by practice. I would like to point out that today, in the context of practice, it is appropriate to leave a passage to the documents, which I think can be useful for regulating the work of our Question Time sessions from here to follow. Minister Fontana has legitimately - and he has explained it through his words - answered a question that, precisely for his own sake, did not correspond and was not formally relevant to the competences provided by his Ministry. Therefore, it is as if he had told this House that we are moving from close proximity to affinity, because in fact there was an affinity between what he normally expresses... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u64	I would kindly ask you to stop the buzz in this House, so that I can listen to Senator Ferrari's words.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u65	Mr Ferrari (PD). I said that there was indeed an affinity between the question posed by Senator De Bertoldi and the competence of Minister Fontana and there was an affinity with the various statements made by the Minister himself on these matters. I would therefore like to take note - and I would add - of the fact that the issue of affinity can be part of the way in which government and Parliament interact. And I believe that we must now take into account the fact that, at a time when the opposition parties and in any case all the parliamentary groups will want, because of a clear affinity, to question a Minister, even where that specific issue is not strictly relevant to his subject matter, Parliament has the power to ask the Minister for this, just as today the Minister has had and has taken the power to respond, precisely because of affinity and without close relevance to its matters of competence. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u66	Thank you for your clarification, Senator Ferrari. I read that the question had been addressed to the Minister for Family and Disability. I find it courteous of the Minister to have responded. It will be my duty to check whether, at the time of acceptance of the question, it is not the Offices that should possibly address the question to the Minister of Reference who is most relevant to the question put, rather than finding it incorrect today that Minister Fontana, who has been questioned, gives an answer to the question. I also wanted to say to Senator Puglia that his exceptions have been transposed by the Presidency and it will be my duty to take him into account in the appropriate fora, both in relation to the video that was shot in this House and in relation to the comments that have been made about him. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u67	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-56.ana.u68	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 13 November, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 15.45 p.m.
