ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u3	The next item is the immediate questioning (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Relations with Parliament and Direct Democracy and the Minister for Health will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Urso has the right to explain the question 3-00072 on the implementation of strategic infrastructures, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u4	Mr President, Minister, infrastructure projects for each country, by their nature, need continuity and coherence, because they are often projects that are carried out over years, sometimes decades, and because they also involve other countries, close or distant. Precisely for this reason, you cannot change projects at the change of government, unless there are exceptional reasons, and of course you have to take into account any cost of changing projects. In recent years, unfortunately, Minister, the quality of public expenditure has deteriorated. Current expenditure has increased and the resources for public investment and infrastructure have fallen dramatically, exactly the opposite of what had to be done. Minister, it has been one hundred and fifty days since the election and more than seventy days since the drafting of what you, in fact, consider a new Gospel, that is, the program contract, forty-two days since your oath and we have not yet seen your decree, not even your decision, much less on infrastructure. In the programme contract there is little written down, nothing, indeed it is written that you will decide something when the Conciliation Committee - the Conciliation Committee, this ghost body, new - will take the appropriate decisions with regard to the implementation and completion of the national public works of importance not mentioned in this contract, that is, all because it does not mention anything except the Turin-Lion high-speed line in which you undertake to discuss the project again. Well, the statements of the various Ministers and Undersecretaries are diametrically opposed to each other. Nothing is understood: it is a Babel of languages and positions. I would ask you whether you agree with Minister Tria's position that it is essential to invest in public infrastructure and increase infrastructure expenditure, whether or not it considers it necessary to implement the High Speed of the Third Pass, whether it considers it essential to implement the pipeline which would make us more free from energy dependence, the TAP, provided that you have finally concluded the cost-benefit analysis, which lasts not for seventy or forty-two days but for five years, because for five years you have opposed infrastructure and we think you have done so on the basis of a real analysis. I therefore ask you to do so, and if, finally, there are international agreements that oblige us to carry out these projects.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u5	The Minister for Relations with Parliament and Direct Democracy, Mr Fraccaro, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I answer the question put by the interrogating senators on the basis of the information provided by Mr Toninelli who was unable to attend the sitting. [[Ironic Comments from the PD Group]] The correct definition of the investment criteria for infrastructure is a central step in government policies to relaunch the country system. With this in mind, there is perfect harmony, in line with what the Minister of Economy and Finance stated in the discussion of the Document of Economics and Finance about the need for Italy to point on public investments for an economic revival and to activate growth. In particular, central to this is the importance of infrastructure which is essential, as these are among those commonly defined as having a high multiplier impact, i.e. able to ensure a positive impact on the economy as a whole higher than their cost. This approach does not in any way conflict with a revision of the guidelines in terms of expenditure and resources, as well as of utility for citizens and businesses, giving greater attention to their needs and needs in the territory and not focusing on the exclusive interest of those who will carry out the works. The Government's objective is to review as quickly as possible the various major projects in order to identify those necessary for the citizens who will then have to be completed, obviously starting with those already begun. On the other hand, on those that will result, after careful analysis, to have costs for their continuation superior to the benefits, the appropriate evaluations will have to be made, process moreover started also in other European countries such as France. With particular regard to the Torino-Lion High Speed Line, the Government's commitment is to fully discuss the project in the application of the agreement between Italy and France that represents the desire to reach decisions that do not intend to slow down the processes already started but to strengthen the mechanisms of quantitative and qualitative control of public expenditure also in order to reduce waste. With this in mind, the Ministry is proceeding to the complex evaluation analysis for the works subject to question whose results will in any case be useful for the adoption of solutions shared by the Government as a whole whose outcome will not result in negative repercussions on public finance and on the action of the Executive in this area.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u7	I give the floor to Senator Urso to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u8	Mr President, I believe that whoever is in this House or has listened to us can only say that he is absolutely dissatisfied with the reply. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and PD Groups.]] I am dissatisfied with the reply because the Minister for Infrastructure Toninelli, the owner, did not do it, while the President of the Count Council assured us that the holders would come to this House to reply. But you always run away from responsibility. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and PD Groups.]] FARAONE (PD). Bravo, respect for Parliament! Bravo! Mr Urso (FdI). I am deeply unsatisfied because you have said - and all the citizens have listened to it - a sequel to statements and words without content, without answering the questions: Do you consider this work to be fundamental, yes or no, which Italian and Northern companies and Italian citizens consider to be crucial? Do you think that high-speed trains and the pipeline that would make us freer from energy demand are fundamental, yes or no? [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and PD Groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] I mean, how long do we have to wait before you agree to give less thoughtful and less indeterminate answers? Yours does not appear the Government of change, but of words, indecision, delays and postponements: decide to govern or return to the opposition! [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and PD Groups.]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Bravo!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u9	Senator Mallegni has the power to illustrate the question 3-00075 on the realization of the great works, in particular the Turin-Lyon railway, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u10	Mr President, although I understand Mr Fraccaro's delegation on this matter, I must first of all point out with some indignation that direct democracy means that the Minister, if he does not come, does not care about Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] That is the subject, but in any case I am trying to explain the question and I hope that you are a good interpreter of someone who is not there. Large infrastructure is essential to Italy's growth and is a strategic factor, which requires a long-term vision. A slowdown in their planning and implementation would have negative and lasting consequences, creating a gap between us and the other countries and widening that between North and South of the country. The so-called government contract between Movimento 5 Stars and Lega is vague - I would say a lot - in this regard, because it does not mention any specific work (apart from the bike paths and the bike stations), if not the Turin-Lion high-speed line, to undertake to fully discuss the project of application of the relative agreement between Italy and France. The current project of Turin-Lyon is the result of negotiations lasting years and any changes could be rejected by France or the European Union, with the consequent cancellation of the work, in which 1.4 billion have already been invested in studies, projects and works. Reliable estimates estimate in at least 2 billion the amount that should be returned to France and the European Union. But there are others, Minister, that list because I am Tuscany and I also deal with these things: the third highway lanes; the underpass of what was the Italian capital, Florence; the roads - already financed - in the area of Lucca; the Tyrrhenian highway; the runway of the airport of Florence. Things that may still be unknown to you. It is asked to know what is the Government's understanding of the great works, what it intends to carry on and which to cancel and, in particular, what changes it intends to ask about Turin-Lyon and in what times, bearing in mind that, at best, would entail a strong slowdown in their realization. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u11	The Minister for Relations with Parliament and Direct Democracy, Mr Fraccaro, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I answer the question put by the interrogating senators on the basis of the information provided by Mr Toninelli. The issue posed by the interrogators concerns the major infrastructures, which are certainly a strategic and indispensable factor for the growth of the country system. It is in the Government's general interest that infrastructure is implemented and that investment should increase, also given their positive effect on GDP. The works under discussion are different, some are under construction or imminent start of works, others are under design, others are still awaiting funding. The deepenings that are still under way for the evaluation of the costs and benefits of each project are finally intended to avoid what has not been avoided so far: the waste of public money and the proliferation of appeals that inexorably slow the realization of the works, ending up burdening the pockets and the lives of the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It must be clear that the objective of government action is not to say no to everything, but to say no to useless and harmful works, in order to free energies and resources really useful to the future of the country. With this criterion we intend to proceed from the high speed Turin-Lyon, for which a serious, meticulous deepening is under way and which, as has already been pointed out, will be brought to the attention of Parliament and has already been carried out in France. Keeping the centrality of public interest and the usefulness of every work for citizens firm, we will be able to evaluate every intervention with great care and effectiveness. The first results of the ongoing audits will be made known to the Assembly shortly. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Comments from Senator Bellanova.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u13	Senator Mallegni may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u14	Mr President, I can only feel totally dissatisfied with the response of the Minister of Infrastructure's surrogate, Mr Fraccaro. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I have one thing to tell you, frankly, and I will tell you until they come to this House, with respect for those who have been voted by Italian citizens. So, I'm gonna keep going until I get my breath. I'm saying something, and I'm telling friends and territory. It is more than a month that this Government has installed itself and perhaps the decree-law on motor vehicles will arrive in the competent Commissions. By having to wait, by waiting, by looking around, the works that have already been financed, that have already been approved, the works in departure, therefore those that really serve the territory and the citizens, remain dead letter. The commitments made with the categories of the territory remain dead letter, the commitments made with those who work remain dead letter, an argument unknown to you. Work: unknown subject. These are the reasons why we are totally dissatisfied. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] LUCIDES (M5S). Mallegni, shame on you! Do you understand? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u15	Senator D'Arienzo has the power to illustrate the question 3-00077 on the realization of the great infrastructural works, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u16	Mr President, we have seen this scene before. In the Industry Commission the Minister has not yet shown up. He continues to motivate others, such as those reported by the surrogate, as Minister Fraccaro is called. This lack of respect for the institution is also your responsibility, Mr President. It will be up to you to call this Minister on the run (perhaps around blocking some work or in some Italian port) to respect for the institutions. [[Applause from the PD Group]] CASTALDI (M5S). You? You guys talking? D'ARIENZO (PD). It is right, in fact, who says that we have been elected in this House...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u17	Senator D'Arienzo, everyone can say what they want. Clearly, you can request the presence of Minister Toninelli. I believe that the Minister's presence in relations with Parliament is legitimate. But I didn't say it was illegitimate. PUGLIA (M5S). Study! Study! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'd invite you to the utmost respect, by the way. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] It has always been the case that when a minister is prevented from attending, the Minister for relations with Parliament is present. So, I'd ask for the utmost respect. Everyone is legitimate, of course, to say how he thinks. This, however, cannot concern the Presidency with regard to the presence of the interlocutors in this House. Therefore, I would ask you to say what you think but to say it with the utmost respect. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] The same respect you are asking for the Ministers we demand from Minister Toninelli! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't mean to question this because it doesn't seem appropriate to me. Please continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u18	The same respect that you ask of us, we ask of Minister Toninelli, also at the first question time of this Senate. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] This is the respect of Minister Toninelli. In any case, when we look at the subject of the question, we express a strong concern. Our government has always believed that on infrastructure the communities, the country, the jobs could grow. It is for this reason that we have left you an invaluable heritage. [[Senator Lucidi's comments.]] Never has any government, after World War I, invested more than 100 billion euros (132 to be exact), of which 98 available. I repeat, never any government. However, rather than wondering what to do to exploit this large resource, the Minister of Costs and Benefits Inspections is extending in an attempt to block the works that make our country grow, thus lengthening the time and delaying the growth of the country. I remember some of them, but only for reasons of synthesis: the Brescia-Padova High Capacity, of which an important feature, Brescia-Verona is practically under contract. If you stop that, stop all the productive axis of the North-East and the North, or of the South Europe, put it as you want; the High ability Naples-Bari, the connection finally between the two seas; the railway works of the Region Sicily in order to grow, also from the tourist point of view, not only economic and social, that territory; the crossroads Tyrrhenian-Adriatic, that is the connection between the port of Civitavecchia and the highway of the sun. It is on the great works that we measure the ability to look to the future and equip the country with tools to make it grow and to make it competitive with other areas of Europe. The decision to block these works would be serious, and that is why we are asking for details. I ask a few questions, President, and I will finish. We want to know which works are the subject of the verification (we have now heard the Turin-Lion); what are the ways of carrying out them; to whom will be entrusted the assignments (if it will be a competition or people of trust) and, above all, how long the times will be extended. Why these questions? Because we wouldn't want your dream of change to turn into a nightmare for Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u19	The Minister for Relations with Parliament and Direct Democracy, Mr Fraccaro, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u20	Mr President, I would also like to thank you for your speech: it will not be a name that worries us. The question raised by Senator Marcucci also concerns the subject of the great works, in relation to which the government's orientation is, on the one hand, to avoid waste and unfinished works, on the other hand, to promote investment. We are therefore in favour of public investment in infrastructure, and in this respect the Government is conducting a comparison with the European Union, which will take into account the possibility of directing future investment differently. The offices of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, including the Technical Mission Structure, are working on individual dossiers for a careful analysis of costs and benefits, for the evaluation of effective sustainability, from an economic, environmental and social point of view. About the concern for the blocking and the lengthening of the times of realization of some great works of national and international importance, cited of the honourable senator, like the High Speed Turin-Lyon, the third pass of the Giovi, the High Speed Brescia-Padova, the High Capacity Naples-Bari, the crossroads Tyrrhenian-Adriatic, the railway works in Sicily, but I would also say the interconnections (ports, airports, highways and railway), I want once again to reassure that, with attention and transparent method, we will write a radically new history on infrastructures and great works, without slowing down, without waste. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] MALPEZZI (PD). Another story! FRACCARO, Minister for Relations with Parliament and Direct Democracy. A different story - I said - from the wrong approach followed by previous governments. In order to achieve these evaluations and the consequent solutions for the good of the citizens, the Ministry will use the best professionalism available, which will be chosen according to the criteria of competence and merit, in order to realize the provisions of the Government contract. [[Comments from Senator Bellanova.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u21	Please let me answer. You will then have time for replica.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u22	FRACCARO, Minister for Relations with Parliament and Direct Democracy. A re-debate of the existing regulatory framework, which will therefore not prejudice public finance, and which will form the basis for the design of the infrastructure of the future. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u23	I give the floor to Senator Margiotta to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u24	Mr President, we are obviously dissatisfied with listening to fried air, words absolutely of circumstance, statements of general principle, an embarrassing vagueness. The truth is that the Minister runs away and I say it with the respect you requested. The Minister escapes: he is the only one who has not yet come to confront himself in the Commission of merit, here in the Senate, on the programmatic lines of his Dicastery one month after his inauguration. Trying to pursue Salvini, he doesn't dwell on the merit of the problems, but I understand it. The Minister runs away and not from today, because he does not have the courage to confront us, for the simple fact that he lacks a vision of the future of the country. The Government of Change has already made a change: it has changed its mind about the centrality of Parliament in no time. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I was there in the last legislature, and I heard what colleagues from the Movimento 5 Stars said about it. I was there when Conte almost said that he would come to answer the questions time and today we are with the Minister for relations with Parliament who comes to read the veils prepared by the offices. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] On the other hand, this Government of Change changes its mind about everything. You want to review the procurement code, to reduce the role of Cantone and ANAC, and that too has been said by Count in this House. And why did you change your mind? Are you no longer interested in transparency? I would say yes, judging by what happened with the first decree-law relating to the Bari court, which is rented to an entrepreneur accused of giving money to the mobsters. [[Applause from the PD Group]] A measure that also contains the suspension of the terms of the judgment: the first decree-law, nauseating, nauseating.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u25	I invite you to conclude, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u26	MARGIOTTA (PD). Have I finished the two minutes yet? I don't think so. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Unfortunately, yes, I have a stopwatch here. MARGIOTTA (PD). I'll say one more thing, and I'll close it. On the great works, Minister, it is laughable, it is embarrassing that you continue to appeal to cost-benefit analysis, which has existed for a lifetime. These procedures are paid and also done well, in particular by the last Government. If, instead of running away, there had been Toninelli - and I conclude - I would have told him: Minister, for the good of the country do not pursue Salvini in the tragic naval battles; do not take care to close the ports, but open yards for the good of the country. [[Applause from the PD Group.Comments from the M5S Group.]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP: Honesty! Honesty! [[Protests from M5S and L-SP Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u27	Please, there's no need to call anyone back to honesty in here.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u28	[[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u29	Please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u30	VALENT (PD). President, you're super partes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u31	I don't think anyone's honesty can be questioned here. Okay? Thank you. [[Applause from the M5Se Groups]] [[L-SP. Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u32	Mr President, I come back to a technical and not a political issue. The road haulage companies that operate in the field of the management of the waste and carry out also transports of food complain an interpretative uncertainty of some norms, with consequent increase of the risk of sanctions. The framework introduced by the environmental code provides for the obligation to register environmental operators in the national register for undertakings carrying out the transport of waste, resulting in the registration of each vehicle regardless of its classification. The resolution of the interministerial committee of 27 July 1984 already provides for an absolute ban on the use for foodstuffs of containers containing toxic and harmful waste. European legislation on the hygiene of foodstuffs also lays down precise restrictions on the use of means for the transport of foodstuffs. The point is that while the 1984 regulation provides for an absolute ban on the transport of foodstuffs by means containing hazardous waste, the most recent Community legislation on the hygiene of foodstuffs lays down more detailed provisions for the use of cargo compartments and vehicles for the transport of foodstuffs. The interpretative difficulty complained by the companies in the sector is particularly evident for vehicles classified by the road code as road tractors intended exclusively for towing trailers or semi-trailers and, therefore, unfit or intended to load waste directly. The question therefore arises as to whether, by virtue of the necessary primacy of Community legislation in the sector, the absolute prohibition provided for in the 1984 Resolution should not be considered to be exceeded and whether the consequent limitation on registration measures or, alternatively, whether it is intended to confirm the current regulatory framework, whether it is not considered appropriate to exempt vehicles classified as road tractors from the obligation to register as road tractors, since they are not suitable for the direct transport of waste or, in the alternative, to restrict the application of the 1984 Resolution and the consequent prescription of the national register to cargo compartments and containers intended to come into direct contact with foodstuffs, thus excluding road tractors and other means not intended for this purpose.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u33	The Minister for Relations with Parliament and Direct Democracy, Mr Fraccaro, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the information provided by Minister Costa as a result of the question, it is noted that the matter in question falls within the competence of the national environmental management register, established at the Ministry of the Environment and governed by Article 212 of Legislative Decree No 152 of 2006. This body, heard in the short distance, has represented that, after obtaining the notice of the national committee, it will proceed with a special resolution, after comparison with the Ministry of Health for health profiles, to the modification of the prescription contained in the schemes of provision of registration concerning the activity of collection and transport of hazardous waste, with the limitation of the prohibition to transport the foodstuffs to the containers only and cargo compartments and therefore excluding the vehicles, in accordance with the aforementioned Community source.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u35	Senator Steger has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u36	Mr President, I give up my reply. (Applause from Senator Calderoli).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u37	Senator De Petris has the right to explain the question 3-00076 on the state's regulatory power regarding the management of large carnivores and wild species, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u38	Mr President, of course I am also sorry that in our first question time we do not have the opportunity to have the Ministers present directly, but we will still listen to Mr Fraccaro. As is well known from the chronicles of these days, the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano have issued legislative acts which attribute full powers in fact to the management of the great carnivores, bears and wolves (I remember that there had been precedents on smaller carnivores), although it is quite well known to me, but I also believe many parliamentarians, constitutional experts, that these powers are the responsibility of the State, in the sense that fauna is the unavailable heritage of the State. I would like, among other things, to remind the Minister that not only do we have an anchor from the constitutional point of view in Article 9 of the Constitution, which speaks generically of the landscape (but it has always been interpreted in an extensive way), but also Article 117 clearly states that autonomy for the regions is always subordinate, not only to constitutional principles, but also to rules and regulations of European rank, and here we are in the specific case. In these Provinces, in our opinion, there is a violent campaign of disinformation linked - alas - also on electoral deadlines, which calls for the killing of these animals without remembering that instead there are absolutely profitable scientific methods that can implement management plans aimed at ensuring not only full coexistence with human beings, but also respect for biodiversity, adopting ecological systems of prevention that can help us overcome different problems, such as the night shelter of animals and the guardianship. The Minister for the Environment has taken a clear position from this point of view. However, we ask that, in a short time, the State affirms its competences, intervening on legislative decree n. 240 of 2016, which has inopportunely provided the faculty for the autonomous provinces to expand the list of huntable species and which, unfortunately, has already served the province of Bolzano last September to do massacres of marmots. There has been a very clear ruling from the Court of Auditors that I believe has applied the law. We therefore formally ask whether the Minister and the Government themselves intend to challenge the measures for obvious unconstitutionality, thus restoring legality. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Relations with Parliament and Direct Democracy, Mr Fraccaro, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to answer the question put by the Senator, on the basis of the information provided by Minister Costa. The Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea takes into great consideration the need to realize and guarantee an effective conservation and management of the wolf and bear in Italy, since they are species of high naturalistic value whose protection cannot be without an adequate management of conflicts with the zootechnics. With this aim in mind, Italy had in 2002, in particular, an action plan for the conservation and management of the wolf, which excludes the possibility of triggering derogations from the bans on the killing of the species. The Ministry of the Environment has also prepared and brought into question at the Permanent Conference for the Relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano an update of the aforementioned action plan in which 22 actions are identified to regulate the relationship between man and wolf, providing alternative solutions to the killing. In the state, it is expected to be shared by the Regions, as competent authorities for the management of the territory. According to the current regulatory framework, both national and Community, the killing of specimens of the species is therefore generally prohibited. The rules provide for the possibility of derogation from the prohibition of capture or killing only in the event of serious damage and provided that there are no viable alternative solutions. Furthermore, this derogation should not prejudice the maintenance, in a satisfactory state of conservation, of the wolf populations. Moreover, ISPRA has pointed out that, due to the ecological characteristics of the two species of large carnivores, moving on very large areas, and taking into account the obligations arising from European legislation, the management of the wolf and the bear necessarily requires planning on a supraprovincial scale, in order to cover the entire Alpine context. In the light of the information, and with particular reference to the management of the wolf and bear in the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea reaffirms, therefore, its availability to the comparison and the search for solutions, without prejudice to the constitutional principles of any legislative acts of the Regions or the Autonomous Provinces of derogation to the law in force in this matter. In this sense, the Ministry of the Environment will monitor the enactment of any broadening laws of the powers of suppression and propose the appeal before the Constitutional Court. On the other hand, with regard to hunting issues, the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea has already pointed out in another context that he has planned an intensive prevention programme, in which, among other things, the aim is to strengthen the network of controls, including through the local police forces. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u40	Senator De Petris has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u41	Mr President, I am quite satisfied. Of course, we will ensure that as soon as possible the national plan for the conservation of the wolf, based on prevention without derogations, can finally see the light. Of course, we will continue to ensure that the promise and commitment to challenge these measures can actually be fulfilled. I would just like to say, Mr President, Minister, that these are issues of absolute importance to our country, because the conservation of biodiversity is one of the fundamental elements from which a very different development of our country can derive.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u42	Senator Patuanelli has the right to explain the question 3-00074 on the competition for the supply of biological drugs for public administrations, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u43	Mr President, Minister, as is well known, the existing regulatory arrangements identify the categories of goods and services, as well as the thresholds to which the central and peripheral state administrations, as well as the bodies of the National Health Service, have recourse to Consip SpA or other aggregated entity of the relevant procedures. On 12 November 2017 Consip launched an open tender for the conclusion of a framework agreement for each batch covering the supply of biological drugs to public administrations under the Procurement Code. With a note issued on 13 June 2018, Consip announced the award of the tender, specifying that the initiative (divided into seven lots for a total auction value of 460 million euros) would make available to doctors and patients the most common active ingredients on the market in this particular pharmaceutical sector, for which every year the national expenditure amounts to approximately 800 million euros. The framework agreement awarded by Consip is of the type under all conditions laid down with more than one holder, useful in order to ensure a wide and flexible offer to cover most of the needs of patients. The award, however, covered only six out of the seven lots, since no tenders were submitted for Lot 5; in fact, the economic operators had a total of six contracts. It is therefore requested to know whether, in carrying out the award of the tender for the supply of medicinal products, conduct has been found aimed at a restriction of competition by the pharmaceutical companies that have acceded to the framework agreement; whether and what measures have been put in place for the verification and the solution of possible irregular practices; whether and how the Minister in address intends to verify any irregular practices also during the award of the invitation to tender for biological medicinal products by regional aggregate agents.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u44	The Minister for Health, Mr Grillo, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u45	Mr President, I would like to thank the interrogating senators for submitting to me the subject of tendering procedures initiated by the Council, in compliance with the current regulatory provisions, for the supply of biological drugs. In particular, in order to be able to provide today in this House the clarifications requested since yesterday, that is, since the question was submitted, my offices have started the investigation with the competent technical offices, providing me with a detailed note from the Council offices. By that note, the Council indicated that it had carried out, by invitation to tender of 28 November 2017, for the conclusion of a framework agreement, with a validity of 12 months per lot, for the purpose of the supply of biological drugs for public administrations, through seven lots of goods, each corresponding to an active substance, with a total ceiling of 460 million euros. The award was based on the lower price criterion. Only in order to contextualize the theme I remember, even if it is known to all of us present here today, that the procedure under consideration, that is the procedure of the framework agreement for the supply of biological drugs, follows a specific regulatory prescription dictated by the law of stability for 2017, which had regulated precisely the purchase of the patented biological drugs for which at least three biosimilar drugs are present on the market, in order to rationalise the expenditure. To sum up, it has been envisaged that public procedures should be carried out through framework agreements with all economic operators and that patients should be treated with one of the first three drugs in the ranking of the framework agreement, classified according to the lowest price or the most economically advantageous offer. However, the doctor is free to prescribe the medicine (always included in the ranking of the framework agreement) which is considered suitable to ensure the therapeutic continuity of patients. Well, after this brief summary of the facts in question, I would like to inform you that the note Consip reports as an object of abnormal behaviour by competing companies, informing the Competition Authority and the market (AGCM) of the situation; this is because the suppliers of the drugs "originator" did not submit the offer for six lots, while some participated as a supplier of biosimilar drugs, as well as one of the lots, namely lot No 5 relating to the "active insulin glargine" principle, went desert. I began by thanking you and finishing by thanking you, because since yesterday the subject has been in my attention, in the sense that the question has allowed me to become aware of a problem of significant impact in terms not only of responses to patients, who are entitled to be treated with appropriate therapies, but also in terms of the efficiency of investments in the pharmaceutical field. That is why it will be my care, right from the start, to start a monitoring system on the correct implementation of the procedures under consideration, involving also the aggregate players present throughout the national territory, regarding the outcome of the framework agreements in question. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u46	Senator Patuanelli has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u47	Minister, thank you for your timely reply. We will of course be kept up to date on this subject. I also take this opportunity to thank Minister Fraccaro for his presence and to thank Minister Toninelli, who is in Corato today to commemorate the second anniversary of the victims of a railway accident, an accident on a single-track route. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups. Comments from the PD Group]] D'ARIENZO (PD). He's gone! Patuanelli (M5S). And this brings me back to the issue of the necessary infrastructure for this country, which are certainly not a bridge over the Strait of Messina or a hole in a 32 km tunnel. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups. Comments from the PD Group]] It is necessary in this country to invest in useful infrastructures that serve to meet the needs of our citizens and to avoid that there are still accidents on single-track routes. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u48	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. 15:46 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the following draft law has been presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers; by the Minister for Agricultural Food and Forestry Policies; by the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism; by the Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea; and by the Minister for Family and Disabilities;
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u52	VALENT (PD). Mr President, I asked you to speak because, as a Democratic Party, we want you to speak in order to call for Mr Bonafede's presence in the Chamber in relation to the facts that are emerging about the decision to transfer the Bari court to a property owned by a somewhat debated person. The measure, which was before the House of Deputies today, had already expressed more than one perplexity in the Commissions which had examined it. This is because the choice made by the Minister, who was still here in the Senate yesterday in the Commission, claimed to be of great efficiency on the part of his Ministry, was made - in our opinion - at least with excessive superficiality and haste, while the Minister wrote to himself the great merit of having resolved in a short time a matter of years. Today we would have to say, in the light of what has emerged in the last hours, if the haste for him was not bad counselor and if perhaps that haste, in an attempt to write to himself some merit, in the silence of a government that struggles to make measures, did not have a bad impact on the choices made. Until now the Minister would have had to intervene in the Chamber to explain the choice of merit to spend a considerable amount (€1.2 million a year by the State) to rent a property to be allocated to the court: a property that, looking a little ', raising at least some doubts, had been until a short time ago and only a few months was purchased from a public fund by a private subject. The subject in question is the entrepreneur Settanni, owner for 50% of the company in turn owner of this property. This subject - as reported today by some national newspapers - has been involved in numerous investigations. I'm addressing you, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Valente. VALENT (PD). He is a subject, as he has been reported in the newspapers in recent hours, who has financed, as he said, also subjects related to organized crime. That is why we are here to ask for consistency from a minister who is the authoritative expression of a party which, in recent years, has manifested not only a political culture of suspicion, not only a policy of drift - in our opinion - essentially and profoundly legalist, but a policy with which we are calling for coherence today. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Valente, you've already made your request. The Presidency will forward it to the person concerned. VALENT (PD). He is a minister to whom we have already asked to come on more than one occasion. We therefore ask you, Mr President, to intercede, so that in the acts of trade union inspection on Tuesday, the Minister may be present and provide the explanations due to us and this House, also because perhaps, before we do, he owes them to the country. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u55	FOURTH (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is the second anniversary of one of the most serious railway disasters in Italy. On 12 July 2016, at 11:05 a.m., on the Bari-Barletta line of Ferrotramviaria SpA between Andria and Corato, a dramatic collision took place between two trains travelling in the opposite direction on a single track: the balance sheet was 23 deaths and 51 serious injuries. For these of our brothers and their loved ones it is necessary to remember and solidarity also because it seems that this was not a tragic fatality at all. In fact the investigation of the Ministry of Infrastructures and the transports speaks of an incorrect management of the traffic, of an incorrect intervention in the management of the crossroads, procedures different from the regulatory forecasts, dependent on the human factor of the level of safety. In the age of gravitational wave capture, we're still here with the phones to give free communication. The cause upstream is the incorrect transposition of the European Railway Safety Directive not applied to regional railways except after the disaster. A directive that, after two years, remains largely unevaded, so much so that the Railway Safety Agency from 6 August next will impose the limit of 50 kilometers per hour to the nets without system of control of gear train in order to mitigate the risk of other disasters. Meanwhile, justice, in which we trust, is taking its course. Trani's attorney asked for 18 people to be remanded to trial for Ferrotramviaria, setting the preliminary hearing for next Monday. The accusations are in various ways the crimes of railway disaster, manslaughter, serious injury, malicious omission of caution, violation of the rules on occupational safety and false. While waiting for responsibilities to be identified and sanctioned, I hope that the disaster will be a warning that the Italian rail system will be efficient and safe. Unfortunately, the network of secondary railways of which Bari Nord is part, despite the five million users, is neglected. Just think that over 3,000 kilometers, 2,700 are single track. For the regional rail transport we fortunately record the commitment of the Government first to modernize and upgrade the existing railway lines and then to respond to a need for decent, fast, safe and low environmental impact mobility. It is the care of iron that Italy needs. Let us listen to the cry of sorrow that rises from Puglia for our angels flown into heaven. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u56	Thank you, Senator Quarto, the Presidency is in favour of remembrance and mourning. I would now like to say goodbye to Senator Maffoni who sits in our benches for the first time and I think it is appropriate to say goodbye to him. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u59	ROMAGNOLI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am making this speech to highlight the unfortunate event - yet again, unfortunately - which took place on Friday 6 July, at 4.30 p.m., in Borgo Piediripa, in the province of Macerata, at the company Orim, dedicated to the storage and disposal of industrial waste. The event must be remembered because, as already pointed out in the Chamber of Deputies by some of my colleagues, in Italy there is not only the Orim, but there are many companies dedicated to the disposal of waste that then unfortunately pour on all of us citizens. As I said, the company, located in a high-density commercial and residential area, unfortunately Friday suffered a fire, yet another. The black cloud that has risen in the sky has caused not a few problems: beyond the bitter smell and the situation quite disgusting, in the area there has been a death of birds, the dusts have deposited on the ground and so on, causing a remarkable impact on the whole population, not least on those who intervened at the fire, like the firemen, who - alas - I have seen from the photos operate without masks or the appropriate instrumentation to face such a situation. We hope that, as a result of this situation, in-depth and rapid analyses will be carried out on soil and plant samples, with maximum transparency in the publication of the results on the regional site, with particular reference to the detail of the substances released into the air, at the state of the area, with progressive daily variation, of the soil and the subsoil. It seems almost trivial, sometimes, to ask for these things, but in fact we are faced with situations that have a huge impact on the population. We need maximum transparency on the causes of the fire, following investigations by the judiciary, of course. On the basis of the results of these investigations - if this is not done, of course - it is asked to consider the possibility of amending the legislation adopted, with higher safety standards. I would like to conclude by stressing one aspect which I particularly welcome, Mr President, namely the verification of the effectiveness of ARPAM (the Regional Agency for the Environmental Protection of the Marches) and of all similar agencies, because, following the cuts made by the Region, it is important to demonstrate the efficiency of an agency so important for the verification of data. It is also necessary to assess the occupational impacts for the workers of the company, with the possible immediate opening of a technical table for problems related to the disposal of toxic waste. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u60	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-21.ana.u61	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 17 July, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 15.58 p.m.
