ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-5.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 18.02 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 11 April. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-5.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-5.ana.u3	I say that Parliament is convened tomorrow, Wednesday 18 April, at 10 a.m. for votes on the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court and two members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. The honourable senators will vote first.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-5.ana.u4	The next item is: Information by the President of the Council of Ministers, pursuant to Rule 105 (1- bis) of the Rules of Procedure, on the situation in Syria. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Gentiloni Silveri.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-5.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, in recent days from Syria, we parliamentarians and all citizens have been presented with the distressing dilemma if, one hundred years after the end of World War I, the Great War, we can again live with the use of chemical weapons, if we can go back to accepting, on the stage of history, the use of chemical weapons, which seemed relegated to a distant past. The answer, not only of the government but of all of us, is that we cannot accept that we live with chemical weapons again. We must say this forcefully, clearly and with the convergence of all the forces of Parliament. The conflict in Syria is perhaps among the most serious of those that have occurred since the end of World War II. It has lasted for about seven years; it has had more than 200,000 victims and about 10 million people between internally displaced and refugees. The refugees have settled in Turkey, Jordan, Lebanon and a part in Europe itself. During this long and terrible conflict, Bashar al-Assad's regime resorted on several occasions to the use of chemical weapons. The events of these days stem from what happened on the night of April 7 in Douma, the last stronghold of the rebels of Jaish al-Islam, one of the most radical Islamic groups of the so-called Syrian opposition. I am referring to the attack on Douma in which, according to all evidence, the use of chemical weapons, probably of chlorine mixed with sarin or similar agents, has been repeated. According to different sources - I remember, for example, the World Health Organization - this attack has caused the deaths of dozens of people and hundreds of people who are intoxicated. After all, we have all seen on television the people who are suffocated. The images of children, as always, are the ones that upset the most and with respect to which we struggle to be indifferent. And there is no clue that shows the possibility that these images have been somehow manipulated, that they are false images; in the state there is no clue that might suggest this. On the contrary, reality tells us that, unfortunately, Russia's veto prevented the Security Council from giving the green light to an initiative to ascertain the responsibilities of this attack. For many days, even OPAC inspectors (the International Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons) have been prevented from arriving at the locality of Douma; they have been blocked in Damascus for a long time and it is possible that in these hours this further difficulty has finally been overcome and therefore the OPAC inspectors have arrived in Douma. Then there's a history of using chemical weapons. We know that in one of the previous cases one of the most difficult situations has developed for the previous American administration, the Obama administration. You will remember that President Obama had stated in a very clear and explicit way that there was a red line, a red line, connected to the use of chemical weapons by the regime of Bashar al-Assad, which would be overtaken by an American reaction. You also know that, following a rather complicated discussion that took place at the time within the American administration, you did not make that decision. It is in fact that the joint investigation mechanism (so called the body composed by the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, the OPAC, and the United Nations) has asserted that in recent years, at least three times, there have been attacks by forces of the Damascus regime with the use of chlorin gas. He also claimed that, in the course of the action conducted in Khan Shaykhun, exactly a year ago, an attack was carried out with the use of nerve gases. You will remember that then there was a reaction from the United States. The same body, the joint mechanism, has also certified that Daesh has also used chemical weapons on a couple of occasions in the Syrian context. This is the picture, ladies and gentlemen, within which the Government has considered, a few hours after the events of 14 April, the response that was decided by the United States, France and the United Kingdom (the two most militarily committed European countries in Syria). The government called it a motivated response. I want to point out (because in these events the words also count) that it is the same adjective that the Government used exactly a year ago, following the response to the chemical attack in Khan Shaykhun. A reasoned and, I would add, even targeted and circumscribed response. Aimed and circumscribed because there are no indications, at least for the moment, of civilian victims and there is no evidence of collateral damage consisting in the course of this operation, circumscribed and targeted, as you know, to three plants with chemical weapons manufacturing capacity. The absence of incidents with Russian or Iranian forces indicates that there has certainly been coordination between those who promoted this military action and the other forces present on the ground, to prevent direct confrontation and to prevent the involvement of the civilian population. This attack, which had the characteristics that I tried to summarize, Italy did not participate. On the contrary, we have explicitly placed conditions on logistical support, which we traditionally give to our allies and, in particular, to the United States, on the basis of bilateral treaties signed in 1954 and 1995. This support, which has developed in a particular way from the air base of Aviano, in the province of Pordenone, has been explicitly conditioned on our part to the fact that from the Italian territory did not start military actions aimed directly at hitting the Syrian territory, and so it was. That is what we have said since the first day; that is what happened at the dawn of April 14th. On the political-diplomatic level, we insisted with our partners and allies, with all our interlocutors, from the first moment, on the need that the dynamics of the attack and the reaction did not give rise to escalation, that is, that the limited and limited character was also reflected in the fact that no escalation followed these episodes. We have also reiterated the Italian conviction that it is impossible to imagine a solution of force, a military solution, in the long and endless Syrian crisis. I would like to remind the Senate that this is not a recent or improvised position; it is the position that our country has held over the years, distinguishing itself in this sense also from the positions of other countries our friends or allies. We have always repeated in these years that the idea of militarily winning the game in Syria did not convince us. And unfortunately the reality of the facts has been proving, month after month, more and more explicitly, that this was the truth. An endless conflict, a regime responsible for unheard of crimes. Some people sometimes wonder the reason for these crimes. I have seen many questions - and I understand that - about which prodest, on what grounds would push Bashar al-Assad, in a situation in which militarily Douma was about to fall and in general, in a large part of the Syrian territory, military control by the regime had been resumed, to use chemical weapons against its population. To those who legitimately ask this question, I answer that I have never seen anything reasonable in the ferocity of the Syrian conflict. What was reasonable about the use of barrel bombs, those that explode kill as many people as possible in a terrible way? What was reasonable about preventing access to humanitarian corridors to cities and places under siege, where the position of those who opposed the regime was now completely lost? Yet the regime opposed the humanitarian access of the Red Cross and the United Nations. We have faced each other in these years, and not only by the regime, but certainly also - indeed! - by the regime, only to the unreasonable logic of terror. So, if anyone asks, why? I, unfortunately, reply that this is the unreasonable logic of the violence and terror that has been governing the conflict in Syria for years. With this horrible regime, Italy has been saying for years, negotiation is inevitable. It may seem like a weakness, a failure, a contradiction. We have often been a little blamed for our position, as if it were a weak, contradictory position. But how, do you want to negotiate with the perpetrators of these atrocities? But the truth of the facts, the development of things in recent years have shown that the idea of those who claimed that, before sitting at a negotiating table, it was necessary to hunt Bashar al-Assad with force by air raids (and perhaps with some very limited military presence on the ground, because we know that military presences on the ground have always been very limited or very focused: let us think of the Turkish enclaves), the idea of who thought he could solve the Syrian crisis in this way was wrong. And we should all - I think - have the honesty and consistency to say that those who fought for the negotiation when the relationships of force were even more favourable to the negotiation were right and those who instead said not to negotiate because first the dictator had to be kicked out was wrong. And today everything happens in a more difficult condition; but we are still there. After Douma, in fact, after the eastern Ghouta, after Afrin, none of us can exclude (in fact, unfortunately, it is very likely) that in the coming weeks, if no progress is made, there will be new massacres, new atrocities. There are still parts of the Syrian territory controlled by the Kurdish rebels or minorities, and both can be the subject, in the coming weeks (we are talking about days), of very serious actions, of new humanitarian disasters. That is why today is the time to work for negotiation, to challenge Russia first of all to contribute, certainly with the United States, with Iran, with the Arab world, with Europe, to a negotiated solution to this crisis, on the basis of the path that the United Nations has indicated for a long time: Resolution 2254, the so-called transition. We must do so now, since Daesh's military presence and territorial control in Raqqa, in that area, has failed (although, of course, the terrorist threat has not disappeared); now that we are beginning to talk about the reconstruction of Syria. But we must say loud and clear that there will be no reconstruction without a transition, because a complex country such as Syria, which has suffered violence of all kinds, with the numbers of refugees, displaced, dead, wounded, which I recalled before, with its plurality from the ethnic-religious point of view, with its geographical location, cannot suddenly declare that everything is over and that it is rebuilt. We need negotiation, we need a political transition. And I think that Italy should bet on the possibility (for this I say: we challenge Russia) of a positive contribution from Russia to this transition. I am deeply convinced that Russia has no interest in holding up Assad's game until the last minute, just now that, thanks to his intervention, Russian intervention, Assad has remained in the game, which was perhaps not taken for granted a couple of years ago. Assad remained in the game, but Russia has no interest in following this game to the end. However, the effort of our diplomacy, of Europe, must go in the direction of trying to use the Russian presence in positive terms. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, Italy is not a neutral country, it is not a country that chooses from time to time, in the face of this or that crisis, whether to take sides with the Atlantic Alliance or take sides elsewhere. We have been consistently, for over sixty years, key partners of the Atlantic Alliance and allies of the United States. We are allies of America, it is not a problem of relations with this or that American President. We have been allies of America with Kennedy and Nixon, Clinton and Reagan, Bush and Obama and we have done so - I say this without inflaming - because it is a field choice. It is a field choice that certainly derives from the fact that America, together with the Allies, freed us from Nazi Fascism and which certainly derives from our interests of defence and security of the country, but it is not only that. It is a field choice that derives from the values of democracy, rights and economic freedoms that America represented at high and low times. There is no sovereignist season that can lead to the sunset of the West and its values of freedom [[Applause from the PD Group]] That is why I think that we all, together, must confirm this choice, knowing that it does not prevent us from stressing the different autonomous positions, of protecting our national interests, of pushing for a more marked, more significant and more distinguished common position on European foreign and defence policy. That's not true at all. The Italian experience shows - and not for a few months, but for a few decades - that you can be within this alliance and within this deployment, maintaining your autonomy, your identity and defending national interests. We have done so in recent years, but the Governments of the Republic have done so over decades, demonstrating that it was possible to do so. And we're doing it right now. We did so in the last case of Syria, with Germany, taking a different position - Germany and Italy - than that of other European friendly countries and allies, such as France and the United Kingdom. We have always done so in recent years, not renouncing what, in jargon, diplomats call the double track in relations with Russia: at the same time the firmness, if it takes firmness (because, if there are violations of international law or threats to sovereign states, it serves firmness) and, on the other hand, the reasons for dialogue, the open door to Russia, in which Italy has always been a state-of-the-art country. We do not even accept the repositioning of the cultural clichés of the Cold War or, worse still, of 1938-1939, which occasionally populate the public debate in Europe. They are clichés that do not help anyone, because we live in 2018 and we must have exactly this attitude towards Russia, which holds together the firmness, if need be, but which shows great openness to dialogue, which in any case serves and is always necessary. With regard to the autonomy of our choices, we do not resign ourselves to the idea that the agreement on Iranian nuclear power can be cancelled, one of the most important achievements of international diplomacy in recent years, which has helped to curb nuclear proliferation in that region. Certainly the understanding is not perfect, of course it can be the subject of discussion, but Italy believes it must be defended. See how many opportunities we have to show that we can stand with coherence and cultural pride within the Alliance and in the Atlantic, but at the same time stress our national interests, contribute to a common European policy and influence the Atlantic Alliance's line in the direction we consider most appropriate. I believe that these are the cornerstones of our foreign policy for a long time. I think it is very important that there is the broadest possible parliamentary convergence on these cornerstones, and I say this not in the interest of the Government resigning, but in the interest of Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group and the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-5.ana.u6	I would like to say hello to Guglielmo Marconi's Higher Institute in Catania. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-5.ana.u7	I declare open the discussion on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers. Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-5.ana.u8	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I largely agree with President Gentiloni Silveri's presentation and I think that this last episode has been a proof of strength without a way out. I also share the clear position of the European and Euro-Atlantic Alliance, bearing in mind that the autonomy of decisions is not only a prerogative of political existence, but is rational. There are also many doubts in terms of international law, if I may allow myself, in relation to this initiative, and it is clear that this does not mean taking part in Assad - anything else - whose only place, in my opinion, is useful for him and for all of us (so not only for him), is to finish his career before the International Criminal Court. I say Assad and more. Of course, a government is increasingly responsible for a terrorist group or various terrorist groups. But I remember, for example, that our country refused to arm so-called moderate rebel groups, as other countries did, warning that since then each country had its own friendly group, certainly very moderate, and by means of arming groups friends, not friends and anything else, the situation has worsened. So I will not repeat myself on this, but if you will allow me, I would like to make a proposal. You, Mr Gentiloni Silveri, know very well that in a few days' time there will be a conference on Syria in Brussels, a conference of all and against all, where I think no one will be missing. The subject on the agenda is a little eager: the reconstruction of Syria. Now, everything is fine, but it is also true that in a country with such a presence of weapons and armed population, we will have this problem for decades (Yemen included, by the way). However, looking at a map, it seems quite evident to me that if Assad's strategy is to conquer territory useful for being in power, the next goal is Idlib. Idlib is not a suburb of Damascus, but a large city of almost 2 million inhabitants and is full of all the terrorist groups that have been expelled from other areas. I think that by preparing this conference, pending an agreement on universal peace, perhaps an attempt at agreement or diplomatic action to preserve the people of Idlib we could and should put it on the table. Mr President, perhaps we will lose, perhaps the other partners will not want to listen and wait for the next massacre and the next massacre, but I think it is appropriate to make a proposal for a truce - even a limited one - on this great city. I would also remind you that Idlib is on the border with Turkey, and I do not know whether the concept and possible repercussions are clear. I think our government could make this proposal in these days of preparation. Will we be beaten? I do not think so, but I believe that we would take the dignity of the victims and our citizens behind us. This, too, is a defence of values step by step, gradually, waiting for an overall solution. [[Applause from the PD Group and the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-5.ana.u9	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-5.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first debate we have in this Parliament in this parliamentary term, and we do so on the main subject, in my opinion, of the political life of the nations, that is, on international politics. I speak on behalf of the Group for the Autonomies. We are Europeans. And when someone calls himself a pro-European, he cannot in any way fail to think about how this word should be applied in conjunction with another concept: Atlanticism. If there had been no Atlantic choice after the war, we would not have achieved Europe, with all the virtues and flaws it has. Today we are called by the outgoing Government, in office for the handling of current affairs, as they say, to reason on this topic and on the behavior that the Executive has held not participating in the military actions and giving a conditioned logistical support. We, dear President Gentiloni Silveri, tell you that we are fully convinced of your action. Our trust is not the child of a conditioned reflection of the past, it is not a form of nostalgia of the past legislature. No, colleagues, our approval is a clear indication for the future, because we do not believe that there can be a credible government in our country outside the priority confirmation of the Atlantic and European choice of our country. A choice that may have been divisive in the years of the immediate post-war period, but which, since 1977, has become a common political heritage among the most representative forces of our country, perhaps even antagonistic in the past, but which found themselves on this choice. For the left of that time it was difficult to make a countertrend choice with the centralities of communism of that time. However, this choice was precisely the autonomous characteristic of the Italian road. So, Europeanism and Atlanticism. Relations with Russia: ladies and gentlemen, I would like to be explicit about the relationship with Russia. In the years of the Cold War, when the Iron Curtain was there and there really was, the great Italian company built Togliattigrad. In the years of the toughest confrontation between the West and the East, Italy has always kept open the flame of dialogue with the then Soviet Union: there would be no more that we did not do it today and did not follow the same path. For this reason, the evocation of Pratica di Mare, which the colleagues of Forza Italia often make, has become a common evocation, because we are all convinced that that is the way and that was perhaps, on the part of colleagues or the experience of center-right, one of the best moments, precisely because then Russia joined in an innovative attempt, aimed at creating, between NATO and Russia, a new relationship. That is the way, but in clarity: as the President of the Council of Ministers said before, it is not that this road can confuse us. There is no neutrality or neo-neutralism of Italy. Italy has made its Atlantic choice and, in the context of the Atlantic choice, convinced and without reluctance, wants to keep open a dialogue with Russia. As far as sanctions are concerned, I hear colleagues from the League, for whom I naturally have the utmost respect, who often claim that they want to lift sanctions. We too would like to lift sanctions: in the debates in the Senate of the last parliamentary term - as President Calderoli will remember - many of us have said that we must overcome sanctions, but it is woe to think of unilaterally removing sanctions, because that is the real point, otherwise, saying that we remove sanctions, say everything and say nothing. Are we willing to take them away from our European allies on our own? I say no. If anything, we must negotiate with Europeans so that sanctions are progressively overcome and there is a dialogue with Russia, which is what Italy, with the governments of this legislature (Letta, Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri), with the Presidents of the Republic (here in our Group we have the honour of having the President emeritus Napolitano), with all these personalities, has always kept open. Colleagues, this does not mean, however, that we consider these two great countries equal or that it is indifferent on which side you are on: this is precisely not, because otherwise the compass of orientation of our policy also fails. I would like to say something about Syria, by associating and signing what Senator Bonino said earlier. So Syria has forgotten the mediation of the UN and Staffan de Mistura, which has also come to report to our Commissions. It will be said that Staffan de Mistura and the UN are in crisis and that multilateralism is in crisis. Colleagues, unfortunately it is true: multilateralism is in crisis and so do we. We, too, who want multilateralism, know that it is in crisis, but from the fact that multilateralism is in crisis we do not take the consequence that we must then proceed with unilateral acts of force. We must strengthen countercurrent multilateralism which is in crisis and, in order to do so, we must have the ability to put the chips on this table, relaunching the action of the UN because precisely what has happened in Syria in recent years does not allow anyone, realistically, to assume that everything continues as before and to think that everything that has happened - thousands of deaths, nerve gases and cluster bombs - either fiction or figment of imagination: no, these issues are in the flesh of children, they are among the common people and are so deeply rooted, that they make the future of Syria very uncertain, if there is no negotiation among all. I would say that we are also very generous towards Assad in taking the position we are taking, because it is the least we should do, in decorum. Syria means the Mediterranean and in the Mediterranean we have huge issues, such as Libya and the Haftar affair is likely to be a further complication. There are trials going on, colleagues. We, for example, know well that it was not Trump, but that since Obama the United States has somehow loosened their grip on the Mediterranean. Many were happy and many of those who were happy then had a regret and said that perhaps the Americans had to be called back in the Mediterranean. Perhaps they should have been a little more cautious before to party because the Americans left, since we believe that for the future Mediterranean set-up also in this case there are players that it is inevitable to put at the table and among these there is also Russia. Sure, because because of the theory of voids, when they left, someone else arrived and occupied these spaces. I also agree with Iran, Mr Gentiloni Silveri. I have always had a clear position on this and I believe that some other dossiers should also be taken up again. In my opinion, the next government will have to devote an important effort to Turkey, another great issue that I do not deal with because I do not have the time. I conclude by referring to the final wish of the President of the Council: let us divide ourselves on many things, but not on foreign policy or let us try to hold together a national competition, a national responsibility on international and European politics, because this is a fundamental point for Italy and for our future. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-5.ana.u11	. She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have seven minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-5.ana.u12	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, in seven years the Syrian war has had devastating effects, first of all for the Syrian population, but also - and we know this perfectly well - for the stability of the Mediterranean and the whole world. After the disastrous military interventions of the Western powers in Iraq and Libya, for the third time a Middle Eastern conflict, triggered and fomented irresponsibly, destabilizes the entire region and creates a threat that extends far beyond the borders of the Middle East. Behind the choices, of armed intervention and also of no intervention to open negotiations, which led to these situations there is and never has been - we must all know, we must face the truth - the defence of human rights; there have been and there are economic interests, there is control of energy sources, there is the Qatar pipeline today, as yesterday there were energy resources behind the attacks against Iraq and Libya. So the truth about everything that has happened is the opposite: human rights, unfortunately, were the first and main victims of all these conflicts. We have witnessed all sorts of disasters, persecutions, massacres, real war crimes, such as the use of chemical weapons. The victims in Syria are more than 460,000 to date: it is a tragedy of immense proportions that has struck, as we know perfectly well, the civilian populations. It is not enough therefore to condemn the crimes against humanity that have been committed and continue to be committed; we believe that those crimes must be sanctioned and punished by the international community. However, the consequences of everything that has happened and of what is happening have also been paid for in the Mediterranean basin; we have paid for them with the birth of the "Islamic state," the spread of international terrorism, the wave of refugees. They are also side effects of the Syrian massacre which threaten to undermine and further destabilise the very hold of democracies in Europe. In this context, the raids operated by the USA, the United Kingdom and France are not only a wrong answer, but also an unacceptable unilateral act, but also a completely dangerous move in our view. We cannot but strongly condemn any action that has been taken outside all international law, just as we condemn the use of chemical weapons with equal firmness. However, this unilateral act does not help the search for a solution, but risks, as you know perfectly well, making the picture more serious and full of threats. The Italian government, like the German government, made the right decision when it chose not to participate in those raids, not to allow the attack to start from Italian territory. Let us hope that Italy has wished to signal in this way that it does not see a possible solution outside the negotiation, negotiation, the word returned to democracy and taken away from arms. But I would also like to say to you, Mr Gentiloni Silveri, that in order to play an active role, in order to influence the direction that you yourself have just indicated, Italy must exercise a certain autonomy of judgment and also of action and must be able to unravel, even with respect to alliances, from an interpretation sometimes flattened on that of the United States, the United Kingdom and France. Because, Mr President, if we interpret fidelity to alliances with a pure logic of bias, the attempt to contribute to the start of a new and different phase risks remaining merely a useless intention, devoid of substance and therefore voted for failure. On the other hand, we must continue with force, with autonomy and perseverance on the road - in fact - of diplomacy, we must insist on the resumption of the negotiations, on the start of a diplomatic solution, with an energy and a determination which, unfortunately, in many parts of the world, in particular, have been lacking, particularly by the European Union. The refusal by the Russian and Syrian forces to let the OPAC inspectors into Douma seems extremely disturbing and suspicious to us, but instead of deciding, as has been done, unilaterally, such a risky action, it should have been left to the international institutions to ascertain the responsibilities of the very serious crimes committed in Douma with the use of chemical weapons. We can certainly not hide that the inertia and impotence of the international community have proved to be in full and tragically in these seven years of war, but this does not justify; we cannot leave the field to the law of the strongest, to the adoption of a logic of the international sheriffs, which has led - we know well - only disasters whenever it has prevailed. In Syria chemical weapons have been used several times from several quarters, civilian populations have been systematically massacred by all armies, by all militias in the field. On the Syrian soil and in the Syrian skies, foreign powers are now openly fought: Israelis, as you know, struck just a week ago a Syrian base in Syria and Turkish troops, in the same days massacred thousands of Kurds in Afrin, without anyone among the many who had exalted the Kurds when they heroically opposed the militias of ISIS, saying anything. It is tragic and sad to see how the Kurds, the only democratic forces present in the Syrian conflict, have been sacrificed with unparalleled coldness and cynicism. If the role of the UN is not re-launched, if we do not find the strength to intervene with international action by international bodies, Syria will remain a battlefield where the strategic and economic interests of the great powers, those of the local powers and the Syrian factions are fought. For the international community to be able to make itself felt and to resume the situation, it is essential that both the European Union, which has been guiltfully absent in recent years, move and speak with one voice, or, as in the case of France, move only by following the polar star of its own selfish interests. So Italy must act for a new European Union protagonism. For us in Liberi and Equal - we will never tire of saying and repeating this - only diplomacy, negotiation, dialogue and respect for human rights can lead to a peace solution in Syria and throughout the Middle East. The way of arms and bombs will not only see our firm condemnation, but it is also wrong and counterproductive, as has been seen repeatedly. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] Hundreds of thousands (L-SP). Mr President, the applause is for Senator De Petris, since no one has applauded her. [[Applause from the Mixed-Free and Equal Groups, M5S, FI-BP and L-SP]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-5.ana.u13	Senator Bertacco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-5.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the attack by the United States, Britain and France on Syria on the night between Friday 13 and Saturday 14 April is an act which we do not share for many reasons. We of Brothers of Italy believe that the government's choice not to participate in war actions in Syria is correct, we agree not to take part in the military attack and we share the decision not to grant the Italian bases to the allied planes that attacked the Syrian State, even if we expected some clarification regarding the story of the American submarine with nuclear propulsion that would enter the Gulf of Naples shortly before the attack in Syria. There are rumors, which are then denied, and we would like clarity to be made about this episode. However, we disagree with some statements that have been made by both the Government and some political forces regarding the bombing of recent days. The Group of Brothers of Italy is not willing to encourage such military episodes. We are neither sympathetic to the Russian Government nor to the Syrian Government. We are opposed to the attack in general, not only to Italy's participation. We are a people of patriots who care about the defense of Italian national interest. We are well aware that Italy is part of an Atlantic Alliance and we fully recognize ourselves as part of that Alliance. I repeat: we fully recognize ourselves as part of this Alliance. This is not in question. We are therefore fully aware that there are international commitments to be made. However, being members of an alliance and being part of a coalition does not mean to share and follow uncritically all the actions put in place and decided unilaterally by one of the Member States. Let us remember that membership of the Atlantic Alliance essentially involves two commitments: the first concerns collective defence, i.e. showing solidarity in the ways deemed politically possible in the event of aggression by one of the Member States. The second commitment concerns the loyal participation in NATO-defined actions to protect common security and, therefore, the possibility of agreeing collective actions for specific common security needs or under the mandate of the United Nations. Italy has respected over the years the duties deriving from the Alliance. He proved it by taking part in 114 missions. Our country has always shown fidelity to the Allied States, has never escaped its responsibilities and has always kept its commitments. We demonstrated this both in Iraq and Afghanistan during the 24 international missions without UN umbrella, during which 73 Italian soldiers lost their lives. Among the duties of the Alliance, however, there is no obligation to support military actions decided by a single Allied State. Even starting from the assumption that we are faced with a dictatorial regime and that this has committed atrocious attacks against an unarmed population, if we accept this behaviour, are we then saying that whenever there is a violation of human rights by a dictatorial regime, a third power is entitled to intervene militarily? Legitimate violent attacks by a single state, without proper considerations and appropriate comparisons with all the allies, would generate chaos, destabilizing the existing balances. In such a complex historical phase, full of tensions and increasing insecurity, we cannot blindly adapt ourselves to the strongest and most angry country, in this case the United States. Before launching an attack, a serious debate is needed with all parties. The term belonging, for us, has an important meaning that does not intend to adhere servially and passively to all the actions that the Allied States put in place. Especially when the intent of the intervention is not completely clear. In fact, there are objective doubts such as the geopolitical interests that the forces involved in this bombing might have. Italy has no involvement in those territories. We do not take any account of other states that might benefit from the attack. It should also be stressed that France and the United States have stated that they have evidence of the use of chemical weapons by the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, while Britain has not confirmed such evidence, taking a much more nuanced position. We, as Italy, want this evidence. We certainly cannot take for good what is said by the allies without effective feedback. Just as we cannot support an attack on Syria, or any other country, if we are not sure that it used chemical weapons since the intention, at least apparent, of the American attack was not to hit the civilian population, but to punish Syria for the use of chemical weapons. Evidence of the use of these gases is, therefore, of fundamental importance and importance, since Russian Foreign Minister Maria Zakharova claims that the Syrian chemical arsenal was destroyed in 2013 and, therefore, could not have been used in Douma on 7 April. This was also confirmed by OPAC. To plan and launch an attack on the destruction of targets on Syrian territory we consider it a rash decision, given the absence of a reliable proof of the use of gases, reducing the whole to a demonstration raid with the risk of a conflict with Moscow. The inspectors of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPAC), forty-eight hours after their arrival in Syria, have not yet managed to reach Douma, the indicted suburb. That's where the government air force would drop two banned bombs on April 7th. Until now, however, the work of the experts has not yet been possible. It is a very delicate situation - we are aware of this - and above all we are wondering why the UN observers' assessments on this matter are not expected. We are, therefore, faced with an alleged chemical attack on which UN observers did not express themselves and Syrian behavior was punished before the United Nations established what really happened. From this it emerges again the total absence of Europe, ready to vex the earthquake-stricken citizens of L'Aquila, but totally absent when it comes to intervening on sensitive issues relating to foreign policy. Not only did it not play a decisive role, but it was totally irrelevant and absent. As mentioned a few minutes ago, the Atlantic Alliance has different obligations and we cannot approve the attack in Syria, which took place outside both NATO and the UN. Over the years, the participation of the Italian Armed Forces in military missions abroad has assumed considerable importance. It should be recalled that, from the point of view of the typology, the missions can be divided according to the following table: peacekeeping operations, international assistance operations, peace imposition operations, peace-building operations and conflict prevention. The missions to which Italy has participated and which have not been carried out by international organizations to which it belongs are thirty-one: of these nine have been carried out in implementation of UN resolutions or are, in any case, related to them. The importance of political and military alliances is not put into question and cannot be called into question at this uncertain stage in international relations. If we say today that, in the event of the presence of a dictatorial state that violates human rights and commits crimes against a third state, one of the allies is entitled to intervene to punish the dictatorial state, if we are giving this interpretation of international law, then we would go and legitimize a completely wrong attitude. It is good, in fact, to point out that the dictatorial countries on the planet are the majority and not the exception. Yemen, Belarus, Eritrea, Somalia, Saudi Arabia, China and North Korea are all countries with repressive regimes. It is clear that it is impossible to legitimise the action taken by the USA, Great Britain and France. The same applies to countries where human rights violations have been denounced. These are about fifteen countries. This analysis opens our eyes to us and helps us to understand the importance of a global deepening of the situation before any intervention by an ally. Evaluations and strategies are needed to be fully part of an alliance, which primarily focuses on well-being and stability. For this reason, Brothers of Italy, in the name of the Italian national interest, is opposed to any unilateral military action, either for alleged humanitarian reasons or by our historical ally. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-5.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-5.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, let us first of all reiterate, during this debate, our full support and the sharing of the Democratic Party of the choices made by the Italian Government on these difficult days. I would immediately like to thank President Gentiloni Silveri for the clarity with which he has explained in this House the reasons and the substance of the choices made. Firstly, there is solidarity with the allies who, faced with the unacceptable use of chemical weapons by the Syrian regime, reacted by bombing defined objectives. It was a sanctioning intervention which, by the same declaration as the USA, France and Great Britain, remains limited to this objective. Secondly, the opposition to any further military escalation. Thirdly, the commitment to give strength to peace initiatives, calling on all countries to take responsibility for promoting a peaceful settlement of conflicts, already working from the Brussels conference scheduled for 24 and 25 April and above all from the support to the work of the UN envoy Staffan de Mistura. I think it must be clear to everyone that there is one point on which - I am sure, the opposite would be serious - there is a unanimous opinion in this House: the firm condemnation of the use of chemical weapons. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The responsibility for this crisis - we must say this - lies mainly with those who used it. The reaction that led to the military raid lies here, in sanctioning the use of chemical weapons and in saying that the international community is not willing to tolerate the use of these instruments of death. We do not know if this is the first time in the same Syrian conflict, which has lasted for seven years now, in which chemical weapons have been used; probably not so. Certainly this episode confirms that the destruction of chemical weapons and arsenals of chemical weapons declared by the Assad regime did not take place and that having prevented up to now access to the controls of international bodies on this was not a random choice. All international treaties that prohibit the use of chemical weapons and weapons that strike civilians have been violated, kill the weakest (women and children) and cause unacceptable suffering. It was and is right to give a tangible sign that the international community cannot allow its use. Of course, this story shows the need to do more to get to the total ban on chemical weapons as soon as possible, but also to give more strength to the UN and international bodies, which, both in the search for diplomatic solutions and in sanctioning the violation of conventions and rights, have slowed down, if not paralyzed, by the vetoes of the national states. Indeed, the continuing questioning of the credibility of the United Nations itself, which we are witnessing, threatens to delegitimize even more the action that is still indispensable. The choice of the Italian Government (it seems to me widely shared in the country) not to participate in the attack on Damascus, not to give support, either direct or indirect, to military action, while recognizing its reasons, is a coherent choice, which is supported on the idea of making our country, also for its location, a proactive subject in Europe and the Atlantic Alliance, to support and strengthen diplomatic action. Those who today question our position and our alliances risk weakening, rather than strengthening, our role, which can and must be a role of peace. We are and remain convinced, even more after seven years of conflict in Syria, that the resolution of the issues and the building of the conditions for peace will not be weapons. That is what President Gentiloni Silveri said. It will not be weapons, but negotiation, diplomacy and dialogue. It was right for the President to point out that, for seven years, this has been the compass of our foreign policy and the position we have taken with autonomy, often little heard. The war in Syria is only the most painful and striking event in a context that makes that part of the world a real powder keg. The Israeli-Palestinian conflict, the Kurdish question, the conflicts between Shiites and Sunnis, the instability in Lebanon up to that of the nearby Libya are events that are intertwined and that can put peace in the world at risk, if we do not know how to choose the path of diplomacy. For this reason too, we have every interest in working in every international forum to strengthen the diplomatic path. The European Union itself could and should be capable of a common initiative, expressing a common foreign and defence policy. Italy's international interest lies in pushing all actors, regional and global, to put diplomacy and dialogue first and to support the UN envoy Staffan de Mistura. We need a fully protagonist Italy in Europe to strengthen the role of the Union and make the humanitarian and political commitment it already expresses more important. It serves to produce a positive turning point that makes a sense of responsibility conscious of risks and needs prevail in all, starting from Russia and the United States, but above all with the awareness that, for seven years now, the Syrian conflict has produced a gigantic and dramatic humanitarian emergency that must be addressed with greater determination. Truces and humanitarian corridors have so far proved insufficient in view of the seriousness of the situation. I believe that the suffering of so many children, of so many women, of so many defenceless civilians, left at the mercy of war, must weigh on our consciences and push the international community to do more, immediately, as Senator Bonino recalled, to avoid new massacres. President Gentiloni Silveri, we think that your Government has in this difficult moment made the right choices, remaining anchored to the principles that have guided foreign policy and Italian diplomacy, moving with autonomy in the framework of alliances and in the field in which we have always recognized, continuing to support however the need to dialogue with Russia, challenging it, recalling it to its own responsibilities, asking the commitment of Russia itself to impose the Syrian regime to apply the UN resolutions, which it continues not to apply. Whatever the outcome of the ongoing negotiations for the Government, we hope that these will remain firm points for whoever will rule. The international crisis of these days and hours tells us, however, with great clarity that the country, Italy, cannot afford ambiguous or, worse, different positions, on the issue of international positioning and alliances. As far as we are concerned, this issue becomes relevant to all the future choices of this Parliament. ( [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and Senator Casini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-5.ana.u17	Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-5.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Members of the Government, in the face of the crisis culminated in the recent missile bombing of some Syrian sites suspected of producing chemical weapons, we express as League an appreciation for the caution and, I would also say, for the balance used by President Gentiloni Silveri and his Government. Moreover, the term 'logistic support', but not'military', is somewhat in parallel convergence style. However, it is equally true that the foreign policy action of your Government has been absolutely irrelevant over time. We do not need to be experts in international politics to understand that our partners have not considered us at all. However, regardless of the various political positions and sensibilities present, such as the League, we condemn the use of chemical weapons, although sometimes we would like to see certain evidence of their presence. A news agency from the last hour reports that the Russian military found chemical weapons, yes, but in the hands of the rebels. Beyond that, we are still waiting for evidence of Saddam Hussein's chemical weapons. We are still paying for the consequences of the mistakes made in the war in Libya. We want to reiterate that we have never called into question the Atlantic Alliance, but we are calling into question the role played by the European Union and the United Nations organisation in this crisis and beyond. A very fast European Union to intervene in our internal affairs, but absolutely and totally absent in the face of important issues of international policy. As always, we have to say, the Mogherini "not received." We are faced with a strong European Union with the weak and weak with the strong, which is the exact opposite of what we demand and demand. We at the League would like, instead, an Italy and a Europe not in condition of subjection towards the allies, but with an active, political and diplomatic role, which, among other things, historically belongs to us (where did the Italian diplomacy that also brought home concrete results?), a role that tries to avoid those damage produced by muscle demonstrations between the United States and Russia that sometimes respond to internal policy logics. Our country has much to gain from the recomposition of tensions and peace and so much to lose from the eventual affirmation of a scenario of opposition between the West and Russia, which even Israel itself seems not to want. We want a government that encourages a path of national reconciliation in Syria and throughout the Middle East region and that fosters dialogue between the United States and Russia, but in concrete terms. Mr President, according to what we have heard this evening, Italy seems to have played a key role in the international chessboard: the facts, unfortunately, say the opposite. Today we need facts and no more words. [[Applause from the L-SP and FI-BP Groups and the M5S Group benches.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-5.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-5.ana.u20	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the dramatic situation in Syria, which today attracts the attention of the whole world, is extremely complex and has been determined through decades of events which in turn have ancient roots. Since the 1956 Suez crisis, Syria has been constantly in the area of influence of the Soviet Union and then the Russian Federation. Since 1970 the al-Assad family has dominated Syria, assuming the characteristics of a dictatorship, with particularly hateful aspects regarding the treatment of opponents but, at the same time, guaranteeing an increasingly rare degree of religious freedom in the area and particularly important for the presence of various religious groups dating back to remote eras, including some of the oldest realities of Christianity. Since the era of the Iraq-Iran War in the 1980s, the relationship with Russia has been added to that with theocratic Iran. Paradoxically, in that same period the hostility between the Assad regime and the Islamic fundamentalists of various denominations, characterized by violent insurrections and ruthless repressions, is deflated. But it is with 2011 that we have passed to a real civil war, which unfortunately lasts today and has caused about half a million deaths and millions of refugees and has seen the rise of the so-called "Islamic state," known as ISIS or Daesh, whose declared objective is the establishment of a caliphate that has, or had, the declared objective of conquering within a few years - through war and terrorism - North Africa, the South of Europe and vast parts of Asia, to impose the shari'a, in its most intransigent version, even against Muslims who do not share the idea of Islam of ISIS. After the missile attack launched by the United States, the United Kingdom and France last Saturday, in response to the report of the use of chemical weapons by the Damascus regime, we have to ask ourselves what can be done, what can Italy do, in order to avoid the further worsening of the situation, given that there is talk of a reaction being prepared by Russia and Iran. For this reason, we stress that Italy would need as soon as possible a Government fully legitimated from the parliamentary point of view, authoritative both internally and internationally, while thanking the President of the Council and the Ministers for their prompt presence in Parliament, once requested. Italy, for its history, for its geographical position and for its ability to maintain relations with all the states of the region, has the right and the duty to be protagonist in the Mediterranean area. We can and must be heard by the major powers. Italy plays an essential role in the European Union and for the European Union, as well as in the Atlantic Alliance and the Western world in general. A field choice that has lasted for seventy years, based on shared values essential to our conception of society, which has guaranteed us security and which involves obligations of solidarity and responsibility to which we have never failed. In particular, our strong relationship with the United States could enable us to be, in relation to Washington, a proactive interlocutor, supportive of the values of civilization and active in the search for peace, consistent with our Constitution, if we had a Government, precisely, in the fullness of its powers. We believe that the military option is only an extreme ratio, to be examined with the utmost attention in its modalities and its consequences, also because of the importance of the current and potential protagonists of the latest developments in the Syrian crisis. The government of Assad has been stained with heinous acts and is also supported by very dangerous allies; it must be absolutely prevented from using chemical weapons, however unacceptable, not only for international law, but also for our moral conscience. But in this case the evidence produced so far is not clear and generally comes from sources whose reliability in the past has often proved to be poor. Only OPAC, the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, could give a fully reliable response. This response, for various reasons, also imputable to the regime but not only, has not yet arrived. Moreover, the opponents of the Assad regime are certainly not free from heinous violence and perhaps not even from the use of chemical weapons, even against the civilian population. ISIS, which has been too quickly forgotten, still controls parts of the Syrian territory, although very small in the last three years, especially following Russian military intervention; an intervention that has also had the result of safeguarding what remains of the Christian populations, very important, yazide and other minorities of the area, who up to that time were at the mercy of ISIS and that under Assad, even in a regime of general lack of freedom, had survived for a long time and without particular problems. A fundamental aspect of the Syrian situation is the presence of the Russian Federation, which, alongside operations aimed at defending Bashar al-Assad, has certainly struck decisive blows to ISIS and other terrorist factions close to Qaeda, which had been reinforced by at least imprudent support for the so-called Syrian Arab Spring, which had disastrous consequences as the intervention in Libya against Gaddafi. In both cases, it resulted not only in tens of thousands of deaths and a very dangerous instability, but also in a wave of migration towards Europe and, in particular, Italy, destabilizing, dramatic for the people who have left their country and bearer of heavy economic and social consequences for our country, as well as the danger of terrorist infiltration into the flow of refugees or presumed such. Destabilizing elements that the agreements established by the Berlusconi Government with Gaddafi had practically reduced to zero. The United Nations Organization has once again been in the corner, but it could come back as a positive protagonist, as happened in various crisis situations that seemed to have no end. The blue helmets have in the past reported remarkable successes and the Italian soldiers have often been in the front row, paying painful tributes in terms of fallen and wounded. Seven of these fallen are precisely among the members of the UNIFIL mission, which is a very important element in the region. We must always have in mind the contingent of UNIFIL, which includes over a thousand Italians and has often done, under excellent Italian commanders, an excellent job. When we talk about Syria, as well as dealing with an extremely complex and dangerous theatre, let us remember those thousand Italian men and women in uniform, to whom we owe gratitude and above all protection. [[Applause from the FI-BP, M5S and L-SP Groups]] These are geographically small areas, although they are of interest to several sovereign states. Lebanon has the same surface as the Marches and the UNIFIL deployment area is adjacent to the Syrian territory: every move, every development of the situation can involve them very quickly. We think, in line with the spirit of Sea Practice, that the objective with respect to Russia is to lead it to be a strategic partner and not an opponent, also in order to avoid leading it to dangerous alliances to which it can be pushed by a West seen as prejudiced hostile. Syria cannot become a ground of confrontation between powers outside it (this must not happen anywhere), but the powers outside Syria can work for peace, for a realistic solution of the crisis that will finally give relief to a population that has already suffered the unimaginable. We therefore believe that Russia, the only country that can induce Bashar al-Assad not to further feed the conflict, should be positively involved; a country, Russia, also motivated to work to avoid opportunities for confrontation with Israel from Syrian territory by militias close to the Government of Tehran. Russia must not be induced to seek revenge against a syndrome of encirclement, certainly sometimes emphasized by propaganda, but not without foundation in the light, for example, of the sanctions that have not achieved any political result, but have damaged, even more than Russia itself, precisely the countries that have imposed them, beginning with those that have had and have good economic relations with Russia, in particular Italy. A fruitful collaboration with Russia is not impossible: the Berlusconi Government in Pratica di Mare put Russia, the United States and Europe together. Russia was involved in several NATO bodies for a long time. There are no insurmountable obstacles in order to return to a similar scenario. We reaffirm the need for Italy to have a credible Government to work for that purpose; we reaffirm our determination to work together with those who will have the same objective. This is the reason why Italians voted, each with his own choices: to work for the good of Italy, to defend its interests and to defend its peace. [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-5.ana.u21	Senator Toninelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-5.ana.u22	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, in recent days Syria has been once again at the heart of the international and Italian agenda. It came back to that after Douma's attack, on which the West claims it was carried out by the Assad regime; and it returned to that after the response of the United States, France and Great Britain, which hit positions of the regime with a series of missiles. However, Syria has been experiencing a tearful war since 2011: hundreds of thousands of people have died and there are millions of internally and externally displaced people. This is not a war that has begun now; on the contrary, it is a war that has been going on for too many years and that most international analysts believe it to be a war by proxy, fought on two fronts: on the one hand, the West, together with Saudis and other countries, calls for the resignation of Assad; on the other, Russia, together with Tehran, works to support Assad. We have already said this and we will continue to repeat it: the main victim of this conflict and chaos has been, is and continues to be the Syrian people. For this reason, the 5 Star Movement calls for immediately increased channels of humanitarian assistance and for an acceleration towards the identification of a solution to the conflict, which can only be diplomatic and cannot be of a military nature. As far as we are concerned, Article 11 of our Constitution is an indispensable principle, which we proudly defend. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Italy repudiates war as an instrument of offense to the freedom of other peoples and as a means of resolving international disputes. We believe that, within this framework, the European Union should be able to show unity and unity in the face of developments in progress and we also believe that the United Nations should be the lighthouse of every country, the highest table of dialogue and reflection on the fate of the world. If this fails, the principles of international law and the democratic values that should distinguish the civil world fail. As far as the use of chemical weapons in Syria is concerned, it is a script which we unfortunately already know and which we consider unacceptable. The way forward is to wait for the work of the inspectors of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPAC), in order to ascertain the truthfulness of what is denounced by the rebel groups and by some non-governmental organizations. To date there has never been absolute truth about the perpetrators of the attacks and this is a point on which we must be able to receive certain, independent and independent information. And let us remember that the Convention on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons is for us one of the fundamental pillars on which the system of disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is based. In this context, Italy can and must play a fundamental role in the mediation of the two blocs. We continue to feel that the United States is our main ally, but at the same time we consider the Russian Federation an important interlocutor for the stabilisation of crisis areas. The task of those who, by governing, aspire to make the world more civil and democratic is to understand that mediation and dialogue are the only ways to resolve international disputes. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The 5 Star Movement will never stop repeating this aspect. I thank President Gentiloni Silveri for informing the Chambers, as requested. Here I urge you, President, and the whole Government to provide constant updates to the parliamentary forces and to the whole country on the developments in progress, updates to be given mainly by virtue of the outcome of the elections of 4 March last. Indeed, what is happening in Syria puts us at least in front of an evidence, that Italy urgently needs a new Government, strong also at the international level, that respects the new parliamentary composition and the choices made by the citizens in the last elections. [[Applause from the M5S Group, the L-SP Group and Senator Napolitano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-5.ana.u23	I declare closed the debate on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-04-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-5.ana.u24	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. The Senate is summoned to the house. The session is adjourned. 7:33 p.m.
