ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 19 July. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u3	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u4	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u5	PITTELLA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I would like to express my deep sympathy and solidarity with the Greek people, who have been struck by a series of arson that has caused more than one hundred victims. [[Applause.]] Not only must there be a feeling, but there must be a concrete commitment of solidarity from all European countries, as so far Italy, Spain, Cyprus, Germany, Poland and France have done. We need concrete help to deal with this dramatic emergency, and I call for the European Commission to act with its civil protection instruments as well. A message of support and encouragement to Prime Minister Tsipras and to all the institutions involved, to overcome this new dramatic hairpin of the recent history of a country and a community that have contributed decisively to the construction of our democracy. We are also fighting fire violence in Sweden and Latvia in these hours. Ladies and gentlemen, let us open our eyes: the overheating of the planet is not a boring topic for conferences, but it is a sad, very sad reality, which we must fight with effective and priority measures. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u6	The next item is the debate on proposals for a preliminary ruling on draft law No 648. I call Senator Ferrazzi to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are at least two possible approaches to this speech. The first, of course, is that on merit. Now, there is a fundamental contradiction, in our opinion, that we wanted to highlight at the beginning of our intervention, between the positive and correct aim of the measure on which we present today a preliminary question and the device itself. The basic point is that we are talking about interventions and areas of extraordinary importance for our nation. We are talking about abolishing the mission structures of Casa Italia and ItaliaSicura; we are talking about sectors that have to do with the lives of millions and millions of our citizens. We are talking about dramatic events, with often catastrophic outcomes, of which, however, ahinoi, we remember only when they explode in all their vulnerability and we forget them instead when it would be appropriate to remember them, that is in the moments of prevention. In our national territory, only in relation to seismic events, there are annual damages of 3.6 billion euros (it is data of the Civil Protection). We have landslides that in recent years have been equal to 615,000 and have affected, according to ISPRA data, 7.5 percent of the entire national territory. From the point of view of the hydraulic danger, found medium high, almost 20% of our territory is within these sectors (other data from ISPRA). Two thirds of our schools are not up to standard; out of more than 10,000 institutions in our country, this means that more than 6,000 are not up to standard. From the beginning of 1970 to the present day, the municipalities affected by floods and landslides in our country have been 2,458, and I imagine we all know the subjects who are entitled to monitor these interventions: to date fourteen. Well, what does this provision do? It eliminates structures of fundamental missions that defined an essential policy for our country. What does our country need? We need to overcome the individual interventions, albeit positive ones, by including them in an evaluation, in a programming and in an area of strategic intervention governed by the highest institutional level, which is the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. The subjects involved in these interventions are dozens and many of them are Ministries. Our country needs to overcome urgently - and I address the Government, here present - the logic of extraordinaryness, but it also urgently needs to overcome the fragmentation of powers. And what is the correct institutional level for preventive and effective management even during the acute phenomena of intervention? It is clearly the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and, under it, the mission structures, which, on the other hand, want to be eliminated by this measure. There is therefore a fundamental contradiction between the objective of the measure, which is to improve intervention on strategic sectors and instead the factual possibility of doing so, because it goes back light years, all the powers between many ministries are fragmented again and the ability to influence the sectors that are of capital importance is lost. Let us be careful that, only to talk about ItalySicura, in these three years of activity, of 9.397 interventions and works of the national plan, for as many as 1,445 have already been opened the yards and 13 billion euros have already been made available. The structure we are already talking about today coordinates the Ministry of Environment, Infrastructure, Economy, Cultural Heritage and Agriculture; not to mention the Civil Protection, ISPRA, ISTAT, CNR, Region, ANCI, Metropolitan Cities and Provinces. Let's coordinate a single ministry instead? Moreover, all the competences that had been thought and valued and the whole network of knowledge that in recent years have been put to value for our country, what happens with this measure? What is the ratio of this measure? How, for example, is it possible to think that in the country that has 70% of the world's cultural, artistic and architectural heritage (UNESCO data) we untie tourism from the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and give it to that of agriculture? [[Applause from the PD Group]] That doesn't make sense. What's the ratio? What's the motivation? Do we just want to take out everything that had been done before, regardless of the quality of the interventions, the quality of the structures? Or we want to make a division of ancient party memory: a piece of expertise for one, and since the Ministry of Agriculture may not have enough skills, we also give it the Ministry of Tourism. But is the interest of the nation, of the citizens, or is it in the logic of division? Not Prima Repubblica, Mr. President. There is also a profile regarding constitutional legitimacy, which we have deposited and which I am now reading in detail. In our view, there is considerable concern about the constitutional legitimacy of the measure under consideration as regards the absence of the essential requirements for the use of the decree-law. First of all, the text adopted by the Government does not use those prerequisites of necessity and urgency which are indispensable for the legitimate use of the instrument we are talking about. Obviously, the mere declaration of necessity and urgency is not sufficient to justify the adoption of a decree-law if, as in the measure under consideration, the content of the decree-law is absolutely lacking in relation to the requirements laid down in Article 77 of the Constitution. Indeed, the precise constitutional jurisprudence in this matter, with the judgments of the Court n. 171 of 2007 and n. 128 of 2008, has established that the existence of the presuppositions of constitutionality, referred to in Article 77 of our fundamental Charter, cannot be deduced from the apodictic enunciation of the existence of the reasons of necessity and urgency, nor can it be exhausted in the ascertainment of the reasonableness of the discipline introduced, emphasizing that the assessment of the existence of the presuppositions of constitutionality cannot be merely subjective, but must obviously be based above all on objective findings, according to a judgment that cannot be reduced to the assessment in relation to the mere reasonableness or opportunity of the norms introduced. In the decree-law under consideration there is no objective response to the necessity and urgency of the provisions referred to in the first three articles. In particular, in Article 1, the requirement of extraordinary necessity and urgency for the transfer to the Ministry of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies of the functions exercised by the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities in the Tourist Sector would be, according to the analysis contained in the technical report, to encourage a rapid launch of an integrated policy for the enhancement of Made in Italy. It is therefore a motivation that, already reading, is understood to be completely inconsistent and that shows, on the contrary, how the transfer could have taken place by ordinary law. Similarly, Mr President, the necessity and urgency which should justify the inclusion in the decree-law of the rules referred to in Articles 2 and 3 is not justified and even in Article 4 the requirements of necessity and urgency are not even established. It is clear, Mr President, that, in the opinion of the PD Group, this raises a question of reference which we are submitting to the attention of the whole House. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u8	I call Senator Pagano to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP2.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would simply like to explain how the Forza Italia Group intended to present a preliminary question on the legislative measure in question. Meanwhile, as has already been widely reported earlier, it does not seem that in the text adopted by the Government there are those prerequisites of necessity and urgency that are indispensable for the legitimate use of the instrument of decree-law. We are not here in the field of necessity or urgency, these are requirements laid down in Article 77 of the Constitution which are absolutely lacking in this decree-law. The measure in question transfers, in fact, the functions of tourism, to date exercised by the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, to the Ministry of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies. The aim is to promote - at least according to the report - and to enhance Italian tourism also through the products of the primary activities of the Ministry of Agricultural Policies. This decision is motivated by the need and urgency to promote an integrated policy for the development of Made in Italy and the promotion of the Italian system. The decree-law also includes provisions aimed at the reorganization of the competences of the Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, providing in Article 2 that the Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea are transferred the powers relative to the actions and actions of monitoring of the environmental interventions referred to in Article 2 of Decree-Law No 136 of 2013, assigning to it the coordination of the Interministerial Committee and assigning to the Commission established by the same decree-law the related activities of technical support. Article 3 of the Decree-Law also includes a revision and extension of the governing functions and the coordination of the President of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Delegated Minister for Family and Disability in matters of family policies, adoptions, childhood, adolescence and disability. Finally, the measure contains provisions on school construction and the so-called Casa Italia department. All this, in fact, as stated in the premise, has nothing to do with the necessity and urgency contained in a decree-law. [[Applause from Senator Siclari.]] I must also say that in the past - and I am thinking in particular of the decision taken to combine the tourism sector with the Ministry of Agricultural Policies - the Ministry of Tourism and Show was established in 1959, was then repealed in 1993 by a referendum of the radicals, but from 2009 to 2011 it was again by the Berlusconi Government reconstituted as the Ministry of Tourism. The tourism sector - it is worth remember - in 2017 generated a direct contribution to the Italian GDP of over 91 billion euros, that is 5.5% of the national GDP, which became more than 217 billion with the induced, equal to 13%. In 2018, an additional growth of two percentage points is expected, the investments were 11.6 billion, with one and a half million direct employees and about 3.4 million in the induced. We are therefore talking about a fundamental sector for the national economy, a sector that involves millions of Italians and on which is also based the perspective of economic development of our country. Well, this sector would, from this decree, be annexed to the agriculture sector, which instead, in contrast, drops to 28 billion in 2017, compared to 91 billion in the tourism sector, with a fall in yield of 4.4. That is to say that tourism, which is growing, is annexed to a sector that is at a loss and that naturally generates a very low production of economic growth compared to that of the tourism sector. It must be asked whether, even, a combination of tourism at the Department of Agriculture is not likely to lead to a slowdown in a sector such as tourism, which is on the rise. Paradoxically, it would make sense to annex agriculture to tourism and not vice versa, with instead brainily being done in this affair. Tourism is such an important sector that it deserves an ad hoc Dicastery, within which to combine the so-called Made in Italy, which is improperly mentioned in the introductory report to the decree-law, which is marked not only by our extraordinary and incomparable agricultural products, but also by the products of Italian creativity in the fields of craftsmanship, tourism, fashion, perfumes, jewelry, design and so on. Well, all this is ignored and we think only of food and wine and farm, which are elements of niche, instead of the overall section that generates much more. We talk about a policy of modern hospitality, we talk about trying to meet the need to promote seaside tourism, mountain and art cities and so on: Italy has a treasure, a mine that we have never been able to fully exploit. Gentlemen, it is not enough for the government programme, in paragraph 28, dedicated to tourism, to read that "Italy is a country with a touristic vocation thanks to the historical, cultural, landscape and natural heritage and to excellences such as, for example, food and wine, fashion, design, unique in the world. Tourism is currently worth, as I said, 12% of GDP and 14% of employment. It can be worth much more and it can become one of the key sectors for the activation of the flywheel of our economy that has lived, instead, for too many years a crisis that does not tend to fade and close. A country like Italy cannot fail to have a Ministry of Tourism, which cannot be just a direction of another Ministry. Cultural tourism is only one of the tourism in our territory, but it needs central governance and skills, with a vision and mission consistent with the growth goals that our country can achieve. The decree-law, far from being necessary and urgent, lacks a logic, a common thread and, above all, financial resources. It should be noted that there is concern that, within a few days, the Government has issued five decree-laws, making clear the abuse of a particular legislative instrument by those who, on the other hand, several times during the past legislature had stigmatized the excessive use of emergency measures. And I would like to represent, despite the fact that this House is not careful to listen to my words, that the President of the House has had to point out these days that Parliament's work must be the main theme of this parliamentary term. I do not think that there is any consistency between the words of the President of the House and what is happening in these days. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Once again the legislator has considered, in an inappropriate way, that to insert in the title the term "urgent" is sufficient reason to make emanatable a decree-law: it is not enough to write "urgent" so that automatically a decree-law has a reason to be and can be approved. It should be recalled and taken into account that greater caution should be used when issuing emergency measures which appear to be ad hoc in order to gain only greater popular support. For these reasons, I ask the House to decide, pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, not to examine the measure in force. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u10	One representative per Group will be able to speak during the debate for no more than ten minutes each. As the Conference of the Leaders is convened at 5 p.m., I suspend the sitting until the end of its work. (The sitting was suspended at 5 p.m. and resumed at 6 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u11	The Conference of Leaders approved additions to the current calendar and the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 10 August. In today's sitting the questions referred to the decree-law on the reorder of the Ministries will be discussed. The schedule of the current week also provides for the discussion of questions referred to the decree-law concerning interventions for the court of Bari, as well as the examination of decree-laws on the transfer of naval units to Libya, interventions for the court of Bari and reorganization of the Ministries. Tomorrow's session will be suspended between 10:45 and 15:30 for the Ventaglio ceremony and the work of the Commissions. It remains confirmed on Thursday 26 July, at 3 p.m. the question time. In the week from 30 July to 3 August, in addition to the follow-up to the unfinished decree-laws, will be discussed, where concluded by the Commissions, the proposals set up by Antimafia Committees of Inquiry, on the waste cycle, on the community Il Forteto, on the earthquake of L'Aquila of 2009 and on the feminicide. Thursday, August 2, at 15, the question time will take place. Finally, in the following week, with sessions from the afternoon of Monday 6 August and until Friday 10 August, if necessary, in addition to the possible follow-up of the decree-laws not concluded, will be discussed the decree-law dignity workers and enterprises, where approved by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u12	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - additions to the current calendar and the new calendar of the Assembly's proceedings until 10 August 2018: [[Tuesday, July 24, h. 16,30-20 - Preliminary questions on draft law n. 648 - Decree-Law n. 86, reorder Ministries - Preliminary questions on draft law n. 675 - Decree-Law n. 73, interventions for the Bari court - Drawing of law n. 624 - Decree-Law n. 84, transfer of naval units to Libya (final vote no. 10 August) (decide no. 8 September) - Drawing of law n. 675 - Decree-Law n. 73, interventions for the Bari court (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (decide no. 21 August) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Article 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 26, 15) - Drawing of law n. 648 - Decree-Law n. 86, reorder Ministries (final vote no. 11 August) (decide no. 10 September) Wednesday 25 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 26 " h. 9,30-20 " h.]] Amendments to bill No 624 (Decree-Law No 84, transfer of naval units to Libya) will have to be tabled by 8 p.m. on Tuesday 24 July. Amendments to bill No 675 (Decree-Law No 73, interventions for the Bari Court) should be tabled by 9 a.m. on Wednesday 25 July. Amendments to draft law No 648 (Decree Law No 86, reordering Ministries) should be tabled by 7 p.m. on Wednesday 25 July. The single session on Wednesday 25 July will be suspended between 10:45 and 15:30 for the Ventaglio ceremony and to allow the work of the Commissions. [[Monday, July 30 h. 16-20 - Following unfinished decrees-laws - Drawing of law n. 689 and related - Institution Anti-Mafia investigation commission (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (from the drawing-up office) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 627 and related - Institution Commission of inquiry cycle waste (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (from the drawing-up office) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 536 - Institution Commission of inquiry on the events occurred at the community "Il Forteto" (from the drawing-up office) (where concluded by the Commission) - Doc. XXII, No 11 - Institution Committee of Inquiry into the L'Aquila earthquake (from the drawing up site) (where concluded by the Commission) - Doc. No XXII, nos. 1, 8 and 9 - Institution Committee of Inquiry into Femicide (from the establishment) (where concluded by the Commission) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 2, 15:00) Tuesday 31 " h. 9,30-20 Wednesday 1 August h. 9,30-20 Thursday 2 " h. 9,30-20 Friday 3 " h. 9,30]] [[Monday, August 6, h. 16,30-20 - Eventually followed decrees-laws not concluded - Drawing of law no.... - Decree-Law No. 87, Dignity Works and Enterprises (where approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (decades on September 11) Tuesday 7 " h. 9,30-20 Wednesday 8 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 9 " h. 9,30-20 Friday 10 " h. 9,30 (if necessary)]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law n.... (Decree-Law n. 87, dignity of workers and businesses) will be set in relation to the timing of transmission by the Chamber of Deputies. Time distribution for discussion of bill No. 624 (Decree-Law No. 84, transfer of naval units to Libya) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1h 13' FI-BP 50' L-SP 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 675 (Decree-Law No 73, interventions for the Bari court) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 44' FI-BP 30' L-SP 29' PD 28' FdI 18' Mixed 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 15' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 648 (Decree-Law No 86, Reorder Ministries) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1h 13' FI-BP 50' L-SP 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 87, dignity of workers and businesses) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1h 13' FI-BP 50' L-SP 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u13	Let us continue with the item on the agenda, the debate on the question referred for a preliminary ruling.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u16	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, governments and majorities change, but one thing never changes. I am referring to the use of emergency decrees even when there is no need. On the requirements of Article 77 of the Constitution regarding this decree-law to reorder the powers of the Ministries I believe there would be a lot to say. Mr President, I can understand that it may be considered as a matter of urgency to put the powers of the Ministries in order, but I believe that it would have been - I say this very frankly - even more productive to arrive at a more thoughtful reasoning regarding the redistribution of powers themselves. Unfortunately, it is useless to mention - but I do this once again - the jurisprudence and the various judgments of the Constitutional Court which have established exactly what are the constitutional requirements for urgency referred to in Article 77. I believe that, unfortunately, the use of the urgent decree has now become a kind of fundamental axis of the regulatory activity of all governments. This is something that I believe, beyond the substance of the measure in question, we should, even within the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, perhaps go a little further. But we come to the merit of some remarks of constitutionality with reference to the decree-law under consideration and in particular to that advanced also from the question of preliminary QP2 to the first signature of Senator Pagano who has put the attention on tourism and the shift of the functions exercised in this matter by the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities to the Ministry of Agricultural Policies. Mr President, once and for all we should take tourism seriously. As far as we are concerned, perhaps a reasoning could have been made, which would have been perhaps even more appropriate to understand if there could be conditions for the restoration of the Ministry of Tourism, after the repeal of the 1993 law which had established it. Even here, in fact, the competences, as you know, are almost all at the head of the Regions and this, in some ways, even before the reform of Title V of the Constitution. It is clear, however, that a question arises and here lies the delicacy, which then we will also address in the substance of the decree-law itself. However, there is also a sensitivity from the constitutional point of view. Of course, reflection is a must. We treat tourism as a sort of Cinderella, apparently without distinction of governments. At almost every change in government, the skills of tourism have been transferred, until the latter shift from cultural goods to agriculture. And this, frankly, is a little incredible in a country like ours, where tourism should be one of the fundamental missions to invest in. On the other hand, once again, tourism is, in my opinion, treated as a sort of Cinderella. Certainly there is also a not negligible profile of reflection on how the competences are distributed within the regions and how, instead, they should be exercised, when moving to the Ministry of Agricultural Policies, the functions in this matter. On the other aspects raised by the constitutional prejudices we have a little articulated opinions. I have said, even in the preamble, that the question of the conditions laid down in Article 77 is certainly very sensitive. With regard to other issues, such as the problem of abolishing mission structures in the Council Presidency, such as Italy'sSicura sul dissesto hydrogeologico, we are absolutely convinced that the transition to the Ministry of the Environment is right. It is in fact essential that, from a structural point of view, such a mission can be relocated to where it must be, that is, within the Ministry of the Environment, which must, in our opinion, also ensure coordination and the plan. Of course, there is a question. The mission structure has also accumulated a number of experiences. During the conversion of the decree-law and discussion in this House, we will present our amendment proposal to ensure that the whole structure can also pass through the Ministry of the Environment, precisely because it has acquired a know-how and because the Ministry of the Environment - alas - now has an atavistic problem of technical personnel (and sooner or later the issue of organic plant will be addressed). Another is the very delicate issue of assigning a number of skills and functions that have been moved from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to the new Ministry of the Family. I repeat that here there is a very serious profile of constitutionality with regard to an issue that risks putting in charge of this Ministry and producing not an integration, but even a sort of ghettoization between disability and the family, a sort of perpetuation of discrimination. Therefore, as is clear, we have articulated a reflection that is not the same for all the profiles present in the measure. Another issue on which we agree - and we say this clearly - is the abolition of the so-called Casa Italia mission structure, leaving it, in some way, to be coordinated with the Presidency of the Council. Casa Italia was a kind of meteor, it was announced, advertised and then none of us managed to understand what the function was and what the projects actually were, if not a general question of absolutely fundamental prevention, which was also at the head of the Italian mission structure and therefore the fight against hydrogeological failure and security of our territory. On some issues we are absolutely in line with the reasons set out in the question referred by Senator Marcucci; however, we do not share any other aspects of the reference. For all these reasons, precisely because our opinion on the various questions of reorganization of competences is very articulated, I announce the abstention vote of my group senators on the measure. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u19	NASTERS (FdI). Mr President, we are at the fifth decree-law, an urgent measure, in not even two months of life of this so-called Government of Change, which, as we are witnessing, has very little or nothing. If it is true that the beginning of this legislature is marked by the presentation to the Chambers of such inappropriate use of the decree of urgency, then, colleagues and above all lords of the Government, we have the proof that this Government follows the same thread as the previous governments of the center left. So much for those who, like the Movimento 5 Stars, for years protested loudly against the emptying of parliamentary functions and the abuse of decree-laws and today inaugurates its activity of government precisely with the issuing of decree-laws to burst. My speech will therefore not have the characteristic of the novelty of the speeches which, on similar occasions, have been made by colleagues of the opposition during the last parliamentary term, but this is not up to us, but rather to a government that follows this legislative path - in our view wrong - through a modus operandi that limits Parliament. Specifically, the decree-law in question contains a complexity of regulatory interventions of such a wide scope, on sectors fundamental to the national economy, which would have deserved a deepening of the subjects treated in a more rational and logical way, through the presentation of a bill. We are not entirely convinced by the provisions on the transfer of functions, currently exercised by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, to the Ministry of the Environment, for the coordination and monitoring of environmental emergencies, aimed at ensuring agri-food safety in the territories of the Campania Region, also of a health type, that is the vast area sadly known as the land of fires. These social and environmental issues, in fact, deserved an analysis of the rules, less hastily than the time required by the emergency measures. In this respect, I cannot fail to point out how Article 2 deals only with competences, and there is no intervention on the crimes of waste, nor on the environment, for which another law will certainly be needed. The decree-law, composed of only 5 articles, deals exclusively with tidying up the powers of the proposing ministries. The preamble to the legislative act does not contain any reference to the burial of toxic waste, nor to the areas of the country that, from North to South, are affected by the tragedy of the burning of waste. The conditions of extraordinary necessity and urgency, therefore, in our opinion, give rise to great doubts. On the transfer of competences in the field of coordination and monitoring of environmental emergency interventions, whose functions are currently exercised by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and which will go to the Ministry of the Environment with this measure, I would like to ask the representative of the Government: what will civil protection do? It is not clear whether the Ministry of the Environment will also have the task of managing such a difficult chapter as that of emergencies, the warnings of hydrogeological disasters and natural disasters in a country, like ours, at very high risk. In view of this perspective, it is absolutely necessary to clarify the need for the national civil protection structure and regional and support structures to have maximum support from the institutions, within the framework of the establishment of a clear and clear regulatory framework. In Italy we do not have another system ready to take over the existing one and above all better than the current one. That is also why our civil protection system must be strengthened and respected in its powers and autonomy; on the contrary, by emptying it of responsibility and competence, there is a risk of creating a situation of confusion that does not lead anywhere. With regard to the transfer of responsibilities in tourism matters to the Ministry of Agricultural Policy, we would like to see greater attention during this parliamentary term in favour of this sector, which represents in Italy a main lever for economic recovery and which has a formidable incentive. I am thinking, for example, of the protection and enhancement of our Made in Italy, especially as regards agri-food, which represents a formidable flywheel for our economy, especially on the export front. We believe that the transfer of skills to the Ministry of Agricultural Policies can promote and enhance Italian tourism also through the products of primary activities: as I said before, through the excellence of Made in Italy as well as tourist destinations. We strongly hope that the Government, in the tourism sector, will help our operators, and that means, for example, protecting the beaches from the grip of the Bolkenstein directive or even aligning the tourist tax and ensuring that all its revenues end up in tourist investments. Ultimately, the regulatory framework of the provisions of the decree-law and, in particular, the decision to intervene with this instrument do not convince us entirely. Moreover, the measure, precisely because of the succession of heterogeneous provisions, is objectively lacking in its structural linearity, in the sense that the treated materials are not sequential and united by a link. It should be recalled that the verification of the criterion of homogeneity is one of the fundamental pillars on which the Constitutional Court has always founded the argumentative paths linked to the presence or absence of respect for the indispensable requirements of extraordinary necessity and urgency, required by Article 77 of the Constitution for the legitimate adoption of decree-laws. The Government has in fact considered, in a way not entirely appropriate, that to insert in the title the term "urgent" is sufficient reason to justify the necessity to issue a decree-law. The reorganization of the powers of the Ministries is certainly not an extraordinary event, considering that the definition of the powers of the Ministries is reserved to the law, as the Constitution states, to Article 93, third paragraph. It seems more than obvious, therefore, that there is no extraordinary case of necessity and urgency here, since the reorder could be initiated in the same period of time with the normal legislative process of a draft law. For these reasons, Brothers of Italy believes that this provision contains a normative system composed of lights and shadows and that, precisely for this reason, it would have deserved more attention in the examination of the norms, through the presentation of a bill of government initiative. Therefore, on behalf of the Fratelli d'Italia Group, I preannounce the vote of abstention to the proposals for a preliminary question before the Assembly. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u22	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, the decree-law in question has been appointed as the reorder of the Ministries. Now, it seems to us that this is just a big mess. Mr Ferrazzi explained the important concerns regarding the constitutional legitimacy of the measure very well earlier. I will just point out a few more, which highlight precisely why we are opposed to your choices and culturally distant from your settings. As has been explained, there is no reason for these measures to be included in a decree-law: the normal legislative process would have been more correct, but for you Parliament is a harp - it is also a bit annoying - and this harp must not work. [[Comments from L-SP and M5S Groups]] In fact, in sixty days we voted only for extensions, while you ruled exclusively from the TV lounges, clearly without contradictory, and from the Facebook pages. But we followed you, we had all the information: for you the centrality of Parliament was a good slogan for shooting videos in this House when some of you sat on the opposition benches and did not know how to read the measures. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Today, unfortunately, we realize that you can't even write them. Let's get to the bottom of this. You didn't explain convincingly - we couldn't understand it, perhaps the problem is ours - as in the country with the largest cultural and landscape heritage, tourism is downloaded to the Ministry of Agricultural Policies. In the analysis contained in the technical report, you simply say that it is a matter of encouraging a rapid launch of an integrated policy of valorization of Made in Italy; perhaps you intend to say what the minister Centinario, speaking recently in the wonderful Castle of Vigevano, has so anticipated: according to his wishes, the castle should host a beautiful hotel, perhaps a five-star hotel, in honour of the allies of Government, a dream that he failed to realize when he was city council member in Pavia. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Perhaps this is the explanation why the subject of tourism passes to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism and not, as we believed, for the maniacal respect that this Government has manifested in the division of quotas by manual Cencelli, so all possible and imaginable positions of Government have been divided between the two political forces since the beginning of the legislature. In fact, it would seem really incomprehensible even to a child - I say it as a mother to the children I am used to - to put together the subject of tourism and that of agricultural, food and forestry policies: it is a Ministry certainly very important, but it is not credible to define it the Ministry of Made in Italy. Mr President, we would also have understood, although we did not agree, whether the Ministry of Tourism had been transformed into a self-contained Ministry or if it had been joined by the Ministry of Economic Development: we would have disagreed, but we could have understood that. But today we simply cannot understand the reason, nor can we understand whether the motivation that prompted someone to say that the Minister has specific powers is serious. We would like to remember that the Ministers are pro tempore and therefore, fortunately, those too pass. The dramatic point is that you do not even try to explain your choices: to clear questions, asked in the Commission when you come to report on the measures, you offer a pitiful spectacle, coming to stutter incomprehensible answers, as if citizens were not interested in knowing the reasons why you changed your mind about everything, denying any principle or battle done in a recent past. So much so that - and we have seen this bitterly - in the absence of the slightest idea or proposal on the future of the country, what do you do? Transform the ordinary into extraordinary, also managing to sell for your measures and measures launched by previous governments: the 7 billion you are selling ready for school construction have left you to the Renzi Government and the Silveri Gentile Government! [[Applause from the PD Group.]] The 67,000 hires of the school staff, which the Movimento 5 Stars deal with leaflets as their own, are the result of the normal turnover: do you want to tell the truth or not to the Italians? Maybe they deserve it, they even voted for you! [[Senator Airola's comments.]] Now, how to define this provision, if not really a son of propaganda? FARAONE (PD). Shut up! Shut up! [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u23	It's okay! MALPEZZI (PD). In order to divide the seats, use the instrument that you have so much contested by the decree-law and expropriated - words that were yours until the last parliamentary term - the Parliament of its legislative powers. However, you are consistent, because the same House, the owner of the Movimento 5 Stars, said a few days ago that in a few years' time there will be no need for Parliament. So you are simply moving forward, treating this House in an unbecoming way. For much less, in the last legislature, you raised unworthy barricades. After all, however, the Constitution was the most beautiful in the world, when it was a matter of turning Italy around at the expense of taxpayers to support the reasons for the no to the referendum.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u24	[[Applause from the PD Group.Comments from the M5S Group.]] Today you can easily make paperwork because it is no longer fashionable. But let's move on. [[Senator Airola's protests. Comments by Senator Giarrusso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u25	Senator! I saw her and I heard her.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u26	MALPEZZI (PD). You just took care of changing names to things. You worry about throwing smoke in the eyes of the public and meanwhile canceled, in your iconoclastic fury, even the useful things for the Italians. [[Brusio]] I make order: you have suppressed the mission structure for the redevelopment of school building, the mission structure against hydrogeological failure, Casa Italia, all structures that allowed transparency, immediate responses to local administrators and, above all, President, prevention and programming, in a country that always weeps after the disasters have occurred. Let's talk about the security of our country, which is serious and not an armchair game. [[Applause from the PD Group. Ironic applause from Senator Di Nicola.]] However, Mr President, we in the Democratic Party are not just telling you this: it was enough to take a tour of the first Commission today to listen to the hearings of representatives of the associations who said exactly the same: they are concerned because the mission structures have been closed without any replacement. But let's forget it. You are the champions of direct participation. You will have a duty to listen to what the citizens have come to tell you as representatives of the associations in the parliamentary classrooms. I should like to leave out, Mr President, the fact that this Ministry to the family is being created in the Presidency of the Council. Already the name itself is wrong: "Families" was perhaps the most appropriate term. Families, in the plurality of what is today's society. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Mr Campari (L-SP). It's in the Constitution. Read the Constitution! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you have to have the ability to listen. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Morra.]] MALPEZZI (PD). You have decided to take a step back decades on policies for people with disabilities: you are the ones who have proposed a code all of them for people with disabilities. I would remind you that Italy has ratified the UN Convention which is based precisely on the recognition that people with disabilities do not enjoy special rights other than those of other human beings and therefore requires the acceding States, such as Italy, to take all necessary measures to ensure the full exercise of those rights. When it comes to issues that apply to the rights of people, one must be very careful about the words that are used. Apply the laws: there are. Don't make up ghettos! [[Applause from the PD Group]] I also wonder, ladies and gentlemen of the Movimento 5 Stars, if you have noticed that with the decree-law in question the League takes you away and takes away your Ministers key delegations: dismember the MIBACT, downgraded Di Maio, subtracting important delegations on the issue of the conciliation of the times, which concern the rights of workers and workers, and gives the MIUR competences that were previously at the head of the Presidency of the Council. Today is July 24th: you have been ruling for two months and you ask us to give our assent to a measure that, in order: abolishes structures useful to citizens, creates ministries that exclude and perhaps help the minister Centinario to fulfill a dream. It seems to me that the list of these initiatives justifies our vote in favour of the question before us. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u29	Ms Nisini (L-SP). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) have tabled two questions on the constitutionality of the draft law under consideration, which, despite the arguments used, have no basis. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] First of all, I would like to remind you that never before do the extraordinary conditions of necessity and urgency exist in this case, that Article 77 of the Constitution - which colleagues of both the PD and the Forza Italia will certainly know well - places as an indispensable requirement for the Government to be able to exercise a materially legislative function, by issuing a decree having the force of law. Of course, the governments of the Republic that preceded us have made perhaps excessive use of the decree of urgency and it is also known that the Constitutional Court has intervened several times to put an end to this incorrect practice, which alters the balance of powers established by the Constitution. I remember that the decree-laws are allowed only in the presence of extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency and here the presuppositions are entirely evident: we are in fact examining the reorganization of the powers of the Ministry of cultural goods and activities and tourism and of the Ministry of agricultural, food and forestry policies, as well as the competences of the Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea and those in the matter of family and disability, all to adapt the order to the composition of the government in office. In particular, with the appointment of the Count Government, the functions of tourism have been assigned to the Minister of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies and, consequently, uncorporated by the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities. In addition to the renaming of the two Dicasteries, this implies the need to transfer all administrative structures from the old to the new Ministry. This can only be achieved by means of a legislative act and, since the adaptation of the legislative texts to the transfer of powers required by the presidential appointing acts must be timely, not to say immediate, it follows that in all and for all extraordinary conditions of necessity and urgency for the issuing of a decree-law, the provisions of which enter into force on the day following publication in the Official Journal, in practice immediately. Moreover, when in the past the appointment of the Government has produced a change in the articulation of the Dicasteries, the Executive has promptly adapted the order, through the immediate issuing of a decree-law to reorder. This happened for example - and here I address my colleagues in Forza Italia - with Decree-Law No 217 of 12 June 2001, issued by the second Berlusconi Government, following the appointment of the Ministers of Communications and Health and, later - here I address my colleagues in the PD - with Decree-Law No 181 of 18 May 2006, with which the Prodi Government set up four new Ministries, bringing the total number of them to 18. Am I wrong or have you all forgotten? [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] I would like to remind you that the accusation made to the current government is that it has passed five decree-laws in a few weeks, but perhaps colleagues escape - I repeat: it escapes - that the Constitution does not place any constraints on the number of acts that can be issued. If one cannot make omnibus decrees-laws, it is evident that it is necessary to issue ad hoc decrees-laws, one for every intervention that proves necessary and improcrastinable. Therefore, since the alleged unconstitutionalities of the decree-law in question do not exist in any way, it must be pointed out that the remaining arguments cited in the questions referred for a preliminary ruling do not have any basis. The colleagues of the PD and Forza Italia dispute in particular the choice of separating tourism from the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities, on the basis of the consideration that the future of our Country can only derive from culture, which nobody doubts, we first of all. This does not mean that entrusting to the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policies the delegation of tourism allows to make the most of the excellence of Made in Italy, with the objective of increasing the competitiveness of our companies and therefore creating development and increase wealth: more work and more growth, without penalising the world of culture. A undoubtedly winning choice, which is therefore not linked to the personality that plays the role of Minister, but which is strategic in the economy of the policies on which the Government focuses. What a negative impact on the state's coffers! The effect is exactly the opposite. Of course, it is clear that Made in Italy is something little known to Senator Malpezzi and all his colleagues in PD, because for seven long years they have chosen to enhance foreign products - and let me give you an example: Cambodian rice, Tunisian oil - to the detriment of our excellences! [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] Because we prefer Lomellina rice to Cambodian rice and instead of Tunisian oil we prefer Tuscan oil. [[Comments of Senators Pharaoh and Nannicini. Exchange of apostrophes between Senators Giarrusso and Pharaoh.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u30	Senator Giarrusso, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u31	Ms Nisini (L-SP). Do you prefer Tunisian? We the Tuscan, have patience. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] And in any case, all the professional associations, both tourism and agriculture, consider this choice to be a winning one. You haven't gotten there yet, but the Italian people have come to us, who have decided to make us rule and leave you at home. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] Equally inconsistent are the complaints relating to the reorganization of the responsibilities of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, to which are transferred the functions of coordination of the actions in the matter of contrast to the hydrogeological failure, of defense and safety of the soil and of development of the water infrastructures, functions still managed by a structure of mission instituted to the Presidency of the Council, that however lacked those competences that instead belong to the Ministry of the environment, that therefore possesses the tools to exercise them to the best. This, therefore, is an optimization dictated not by contingent needs, but by careful evaluation of how the functions have been carried out so far. Finally, some have even been able to define dangerous provisions for the revision and extension of the Council Presidency's functions on family policies, adoptions, childhood, adolescence and disability. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] This is because they would mark a step backwards and tend to view disability as a problem and an issue dealt with in an exclusively pathological dimension. It is obvious to the presenters that the reorganization of functions and the allocation of functions to a Department of the Presidency of the Council is functional to a greater coordination of policies in the field of family and disability, for a greater efficiency of the exercise of the same. Unlike you, we speak not of exclusion, but of inclusion. [[Comments from the PD Group]] In conclusion, Mr President, the allegations of inconstitutionality contained in the two questions referred for a preliminary ruling do not, on the contrary, make it clear that the wording of the text has been particularly accurate, given the objective of maintaining the strict jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court in the matter of decree-laws. Other complaints, then, actually apply to the merits of political choices and are therefore political issues disguised as presumed, but non-existent, profiles of unconstitutionality. Parliament has the right to express itself on these choices, but in order to do so it is necessary for the Senate to have the opportunity to examine to the full the contents of the decree-law for the purpose of its conversion into law. For these reasons, the League Group will vote strongly against the proposals for a preliminary ruling. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u34	TIRABOCHI (FI-BP). Mr President, Minister, I would like to make a very uncontroversial point of order. We think of twenty-five years ago - I think I already said it in the Chamber three weeks ago - when the Internet was in its infancy: the sectors of traditional industry did not understand the potential of the Internet; the only one that really understood it was the tourism industry and today we can say that tourism is the most digital of industries, but it has not become the protagonist of innovation in our country. Then I say: why don't we look at the countries that have passed us? I am referring to Spain: you think that the Ministry of Tourism and the Digital Agenda has been set up in Spain. This is because they understood the potential of big data analysis and study. Now, I do not know if here, starting with me, it is easy to understand the potential of digital, because here there are very few digital natives and in the Ministries, dear Minister, there are great bureaucrats, but there are no men who can speak in terms of communication, promotion, marketing and industry, and that is what we have to think about. And we don't just copy Spain, we think Italy is much more than Spain, because Made in Italy is the third best known brand in the world after Coca-Cola and Visa. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This is what we must start from in order to promote and enhance not only tourism - what my colleagues who preceded my speech said is worth 11-13% of Italian GDP - but the Italian creative industry, the Italian craft industry. Inside, Minister, there is also agriculture, with everything that represents the food and wine sector. Let us think then of a Ministry of the promotion of Made in Italy - that is what you must think, Minister - that has three objectives, the first of which is to reorganize functions and competences scattered in different ministries: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the MISE, the MIBAC, the Ministry of the Environment and those who have more, to be very incisive. We also think about reorganising the tourism offer for international flows, those that represent for us the exports of the trade balance. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And we organize them according to what? Of cultural, environmental, food and wine products, wellness products. Minister, I don't know if you've read an article in Sun 24 Hours on the growth of the Italian well-being industry on the Chinese market: it's two percentage figures. It is at that market that we must look at, Minister. A market difficult to penetrate for us entrepreneurs that we go alone in the fairs to promote Italian excellence. Help us with this country, help us with the government! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] That is what you must do, Minister. We also organize a mega digital platform, the one that brings this tourist offer that is the umbrella under which the Italian creative industry is, which is represented by 4.5-6 million (you don't understand the numbers) of small and medium-sized enterprises, those that have less than 15-20 employees and that, with courage and passion, carry on their activity daily because they still believe us. It is those companies that contribute 90% to national GDP and make our country rich; those companies that could increase exports and further improve, together with tourism, the trade balance of our country. They are those companies that can count on 400 million consumers who have a high purchasing power, who love the beautiful, the good, the well done, the beautiful Italian life, everything we must be proud of and that can represent a world market worth about 1,200 billion. Mr. Minister, that's exactly what we need to intercept. I would now like to take one last step which is very complicated to understand, because we have to see it from here to ten years. I am thinking of a new business model that lies at the crossroads between the tertiary manufacturing and a tertiary world that tends to take on those methods, those cultures and those knowledge that were once typical of industry.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u35	Excuse me, Senator Tiraboschi. Senator Donno, please allow the Minister to listen.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u36	TIRABOCHI (FI-BP). I think of new functions and new knowledge that in Italy there are no, they are a part of those 600,000 jobs that cannot find professionalism. So let's do a Marshall megaplan on digital training. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Go to Europe to say that this Marshall megaplan must be financed with exactly the same resources as those that go into structural investment, even if they go into infrastructure investments, which are the new knowledge. I therefore think of a kind of new plan that hybridizes craftsmanship, the traditional industry with industry 4.0. This is and everything can be dragged by the tourism that is the driver par excellence, the one that intercepts international tourist flows. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u39	GRASSI (M5S). Mr President, I have listened carefully to the speeches made by my fellow Members and I have to say that the debate on the substance of the draft law on conversion has already been held, so I would like to make a joke: let us vote directly on the draft law, since we have already exhausted the discussion on the substance. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] On the other hand, I would like to focus solely on the question of constitutional prejudiceality which here, also for the subject on the agenda, seems to me worthy of attention. We all know the well-known ruling of the Constitutional Court No 171 of 2007, which made it clear that the prerequisites of necessity and urgency must not only be indicated by the Government from the subjective point of view, but must exist objectively. That's right, that's right. The Constitutional Court, however, between the lines and on several occasions has also made it clear that this assessment of the assumptions from an objective point of view must not be made according to abstract categories, but must be carried out in concrete terms. This means that the reorganization of the Ministries with a decree-law at some point, at some historical time, could indeed be deprived of the constitutional presuppositions indicated in Article 77; in practice, the evaluation requires that we look at the context, the political situation of the moment. Well, we all know that this majority intends to pursue new and different political objectives, marking a profound change in relation to the policy of previous years. We also know that, in order to achieve certain ends, the appropriate instruments are necessary and we also know that there is no room for delay in the beginning of political activity in a new legislature, we have not been elected to leave a few months later than the beginning of the legislature. It follows that, if it is necessary and urgent to start immediately the political activity indicated by us in the government program, and also necessary and urgent to equip ourselves with the tools to achieve those objectives. It is quite easy, then, to understand that those requirements of necessity and urgency exist, because without the organizational structure we cannot start. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] In this respect, so... FARAONE (PD). What are you talking about? [[Comments from M5S and L-SP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u40	Senator Pharaoh, be good, let the others speak. Don't worry! GRASSI (M5S). Colleagues, please, please... AIROLA (M5S). Why don't you speak Italian!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u41	[[Senator Pharaoh's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u42	Senator Pharaoh, please. Senator Pharaoh, three! Please, Senator Grassi. Let's start with the calls, so let's open a new season even with the admonites, and then move on to the expulsions? GRASSI (M5S). I just want to say on a personal level that I do not take it, because it is right that the opposition does its job: it is opposition and I understand it, otherwise what opposition is it? VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. Bravo! GRASSI (M5S). In fact, I believe that my speech is over. I wanted to stress that there is no concern on the part of the Government and this majority about the non-susistence of the requirements of necessity and urgency, on the contrary I take this opportunity to reiterate that this majority will take its political action in full respect of the fundamental constitutional principles.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u43	[[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u44	Colleagues, I do not want to correct anyone, but with respect to all the speeches I point out that the constitutional requirements of the Senate are not present: there are the prejudices and the prerequisites of necessity, urgency and constitutionality have been abolished in the new Rules of Procedure and they were judged only in the Commission. Pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred for a preliminary ruling, with several reasons, by Senator Marcucci and other senators (QP1) and Senator Pagano and other senators (QP2), referring to bill 648. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Before we move on to the speeches at the end of the sitting, I hope, because the end of the sitting is set at 8 p.m. and there are seven speeches planned, each of which is self-contingent, because at 8 p.m. the sitting must be closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u47	Ruspandini (FdI). Mr President, in the 1960s the process of industrialization of national territory began. The legendary Cassa del Mezzogiorno provided opportunities for businesses and entrepreneurs from all over Northern Italy. Cassino and the province of Frosinone represent the most attractive and inviting edge to invest: just south of Rome, it is perceived as the North of the South, where it is possible to take very easy financing from the Cassa del Mezzogiorno. It is the northernmost province of the Cassa del Mezzogiorno, so many dive to take, more than to undertake. In parallel, in these years of this strip of land, this Valley of Sacco, which is best known in Italy as Ciociaria, is witnessing a upheaval. We have a twist of this territory, which has always had an agricultural and pastoral vocation, which instead becomes irremediably industrial. However, there is also an increase in living standards, customs and the economy. There is a great concentration of factories, so much so that it becomes a land of very high industrial concentration, one of the highest in Europe. However, after the Cassa del Mezzogiorno and the era of Christian, Socialist, Communist and trade union associations ended with it, unfortunately we have today a very large phase of deindustrialization; there are still square kilometres of sheds abandoned by Cassino to Anagni, failed companies, thousands of unemployed, rivers and polluted valleys. At the time of the events, immediately after the 1960s, there was no crime of environmental damage. With this I mean that, unfortunately, the savage industrialization has left us a territory full of problems. The Sacco, which is the river that crosses the whole Sacco Valley and the province of Frosinone, according to some studies it is one of the most polluted rivers in Europe, also due to the presence of beta-hexachloroquinone, which is a waste of lindane processing, necessary for the production of DDT, produced in Colleferro. We ask the Government and Minister Costa to intervene urgently on the issue of Sacco which, within the Lazio region, includes territories that reach 700,000 inhabitants. It is to respond to the demands of so many municipalities mocked by the policy of announcements, of so many associations and entire communities close to abandoned sites and a worrying psychosis linked to the perception of a tumor impact on the inhabitants of these territories. I close by saying that this wonderful land needs concrete and true intervention; we ask you to take care of it; we ask you not to mock these martyred territories. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u50	NENCINI (Misto-PSI). Mr President, I have asked for the floor to remind you that in these days it is the seventh year since the first major massacre in Europe in Utøya. Between Oslo and that place, where they retired in the summer until the time of Willy Brandt girls and boys who belonged to the history of the European left, more than 80 people died. It is a massacre little remembered compared to the more recent ones, but it represents the beginning of a terrifying story that reached its apical drama in that case, seven years ago. I will just recall the words quoted by Breivik, the author of that massacre, precisely in the political manifesto that he sent to the parties that should have shared his opinion, rather than opinion, I would like to say his ideology. The prediction he made in the manifesto that he sent predicted that in Europe they would take power, within a short time, of a few years, sovereignist parties and cited, among them, Le Pen in France, the League in Italy, the FP Ö in Austria and similar parties in the Netherlands and Eastern Europe. Young people were massacred one by one with a blow to the head in a very short time, something more than an hour. The wounded were finished later. Few remember that Breivik is absolutely not in the crazy category. The author of the massacre was declared sane and in the trial he himself stated that he would not appeal to any court, because his action was an action to be considered exclusively political. The sentence that sentenced him is final. If this House remembers, as I try to do, the tragic fate of some 80 girls and boys, I do so in the name of freedom of thought and condemnation of an ideology that risks carrying us terribly into a dramatic precipice. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u53	CASELATI (L-SP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the House of what has happened and is taking place in Piedmont and more precisely in Valsusa. For days, attacks have been taking place on the Chiomonte shipyard, the site of the Turin-Lyon High Speed line, by groups of social centre antagonists. It has been hours of tension and violence against the Forces of Order, attacks studied that arouse concern in Valsusini citizens and entrepreneurs, gagged by mayors elected by minorities and social forces related to old red brigades released, characters who continue their personal battle using the children of the social centers. In this context, I would like to remind you that the non-TAV activists who used and used paper bombs, Molotovs and other illegal instruments, also act with intimidation towards the healthy and responsible population of Valsusa. These subjects exploit an absurd opposition in the fact to the construction of the railway line and aim to two clear objectives: on the one hand, to have visibility at international level strengthening their position; on the other hand, there is the example of the Festival of Happiness, which will take place this weekend and which will make substantial profits, strictly in black, to finance other delinquent interventions. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] The attacks of the other night are nothing more than practical proof of what was learned at the no TAV camp, which culminates every year with the attack of the yard. Yes: because if you take any course at the end there is the race at the end of the course, if you do the no TAV camp: the assault! The other night, just for the record, there were about 150 participants, mostly from the social centres of Turin, Pisa, Catania, Bologna, Siena, but also from abroad. For years now all this has happened in Valsusa, a valley that currently lives also of induced brought by the international yard and that risks, without it, to lose the economic and productive future. I welcome with deep satisfaction Minister Toninelli's statement that he said he was, albeit with a view to revision possible and appreciable, agreed to keep the commitments made on the line at High Speed Turin-Lyon. [[Applause from the L-SP Group. Comments from the PD Group]] This position will certainly make it easier to control the territory, because it will isolate the violent fringes of the social centers, removing their illusion of a protection that until now believed they had on one side of the government. To conclude, I want to bring solidarity and closeness to the men of the Forces of Order who, with their commitment and professionalism, have continued for years to defend the State from a small violent minority, which disputes violently, not a project or a railway, but the institutions themselves, and who in recent years have suffered the injury of more than 600 agents. Our thanks go to them. [[Applause from the L-SP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u56	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, every week new news arrives from the press that enriches the saga "the money of the League where they have ended up?"The questions multiply, but unfortunately the answers remain zero. [[Comments from the L-SP Group]] I know it bothers you because it's an exposed nerve. Questions multiply on corporate instruments and ONLUS. Like the ONLUS More voices, which is hosted by an accountant friend of Salvini who, by chance, handled the balance sheet of the League for Salvini Premier. On these aspects we have not had any answers, as well as on the transfers of money from Italy to abroad and back, turning them into transfers, in some cases made precisely by associations and ONLUS close to the League and not by the party, not by the League, or I should say by the two parties. Yes, because today there are two, as are two, one in Via Bellerio and one in Via Privata delle Stelline, but nobody knows of existence. How two are the codes - one for the North League and another for the League for Salvini Premier - to ask for the 2 per thousand. From this point of view there is an unclear or opaque management, to use a euphemism. That is why, more than conjuring political sentences, Salvini should answer clearly how the money of the League was spent. You have to answer that and you have to be clear about it. A man of the institutions respects the judgments, also and especially when they concern the party he leads, even when the judgment of appeal, in this case, concerns, as today, the leader of the Molinari League, which has been condemned. Judgments are also respected when they concern your partymates. This also applies to ourselves. From this point of view, there is a need for clarity and transparency, the same transparency that Minister Bonafede has repeatedly spoken of today, often quoting it out of proportion. We would like that same heat oratory and that passion and vivacity to use them also to answer questions about the money of the League and its relations with Lanzalone. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u59	Mr ASTORRE (PD). Mr President, I would like to denounce in this House a vandalism with Nazi fire and rubbing, which took place this night in Marino, to the detriment of a Madonna who had been restored just last night and inaugurated at a Mass by Don Pietro and the faithful of Marino, in Piazza Europa. A chalk Madonna, which was burned a month ago. This is part of a worrying series of acts of vandalism that took place at the Roman Castles in recent weeks, at Rocca di Papa, at Castel Gandolfo and Frascati, where they even set fire to a statue of Padre Pio. However, the story of Marino is more worrying because, for the first time, a signature was placed near the burnt Madonna, which last night had been somehow reconsecrated in Piazza Europa. In fact, there is the writing, with Nazi symbols: "What does a Jewish idol have to do with the European spirit?" Now I have thought of Our Lady many times, but I find it a little strange to think of her as a Jewish idol: it is another way of thinking Our Lady who, in fact, was born in Judea. The inscription also bears Nazi symbols. I know Velletri's attorney and the command of the Carabinieri of Marino are investigating. I would also like to bring this alarm to this House because a series of rubbings to the detriment of Christian symbols cannot pass under silence and above all it cannot pass under silence the Nazi ideology that wants to silence our faith and our conscience. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u62	GALLICCHIO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the serious political and institutional situation in which the Basilicata Region is situated. Currently Governor Marcello Pittella is under house arrest following the investigation, coordinated by the Attorney of Matera and conducted by the Finance Guard, with dozens of people involved, concerning public competitions rigged. Last Friday the review court confirmed the arrests, thus assessing as concrete the risks of pollution of the evidence and recurrence of the crime. Favorable exchanges, clientele logic: this is where the hand of health policy can reach, a hand that must necessarily be stopped. Mr Laus (PD). Let's wait for the sentence! GALLICCHIO (M5S). The Minister of Health, Giulia Grillo, has acted promptly to ascertain whether and to what extent, as a result of judicial events, there have been impediments in the provision of health services to citizens. Here are the risks: crimes, lack of meritorious criteria and even disservices, because if competitions are not won by the best, health is not managed by the best. Beyond the damage, the Region suffers the mockery of the President, suspended from his duties for the application of the Severino law, who did not resign and who would bend the Regional Health System to private interests and customer logic. In the face of this one is left uncomfortable. [[Comments from the PD Group]] My thoughts go to the Lucans, to the deserving young graduates, forced to leave their land in search of a job and a dignified future. [[Comments of Senator Bellanova]] We want a region and a normal country, where years of study, commitment and sacrifice are rightly rewarded and are not frustrated by a public system polluted. A country where the public, in short, is an expression of excellence and who wins them because it deserves to win them. All citizens and voters are called to react and the opportunity will be next autumn, when the Lucans will be called to the polls and I am sure that, with pride, they will be able to choose honesty, competence, civil rebirth and transparency, which in health is our priority at national level. Minister Grillo has launched an invitation to take part in an event of interest to be appointed Director-General of the Italian Medicines Agency. It is an example of transparency: this is how the public should work, this is how the Basilicata will work best. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u65	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask three minutes of attention in this House to Greece, which is being devoured by the flames and has asked Europe for help. A series of fires have developed in the area north of Athens that have caused more than 70 deaths (an estimated 100), while the wounded are more than 200 and thousands are displaced. It is a budget that gets worse from minute to minute. The Greek authorities denounce other fires in the Attica region and, due to the wind, the spread of flames also in Corinth and Peloponnese. These are most likely arson fires. France, Germany, Denmark, Poland, Spain and Cyprus have already responded to the call for aid by sending firemen, paramedics, pumps and Canadair. All aid has been channelled through European Civil Protection. Italy also contributes to the solidarity of the European Union by making available two Canadair of the Fire Departments that will leave for Greece in the next few hours and Farnesina has activated, through the crisis unit, a number of assistance for our fellow countrymen. In expressing the solidarity of the Brothers of Italy and the closeness to the victims of the Greek people, we want to draw the attention of the Government to the need to contribute with the greatest commitment to face the current fire emergency and to employ a greater number of means than those announced. It is difficult to see - let us say this without controversy, but with a sad heart - that the Italian Government, apart from the necessary and shared expressions of solidarity and the declared "we will do" has not yet set out a plan of intervention proportionate to the gravity of the situation, except for the planned sending of the aforementioned two Canadair. We have read some tweets from the President of the Council, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of the Environment, but beyond these statements we are waiting to know, with the times that urgency requires, what exactly Italy wants to be the role to face this emergency. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u66	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-25.ana.u67	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 25 July, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.01 p.m.
