ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 9.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 22 November. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the 5 Star Movement Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u6	RAMPI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is right this morning to open the proceedings of this House by dedicating a few words to the thought of the great master Bernardo Bertolucci, who, a few meters from here, will begin to receive a final greeting today. It is difficult to find the right words to face an extraordinary mountain, a peak of Italian cinema. Someone, quoting one of his films, called him the last emperor of cinema, but I think he would not have liked the word "last": the love for Italian cinema would have made Bernardo Bertolucci say that it is not possible to think that today in Italy, perhaps hidden in some small city as happened to him, there is not a great master, a great genius, that our creativity and our history must still be able to bring out. Here, the story of Bertolucci extraordinarily intersects that of our country: he was so much Italian that his films in the world could only bear the brand of our nation. At the same time, it was so much global, international and capable of telling any land in the world, from Africa to Asia, to American culture, and of doing so with the amazement of a boy who looks at beauty with admiration, but also with the torments of those who dig into the human soul and see limits and fears, as well as the abyss of death and life and the desire to find always and anyway a need for life. The dreamers, one of his last great works, to some extent also retraces his cinematography. The need to dream still lies in that sampietrino that breaks the glass of a window, to say: look, guys, that there is a world outside, where your dreams can be compared with your reality. It is harder to dream by looking out and meeting the world, but there is a call to civil participation. And that call is all within what is probably his great masterpiece, "Novecento", the film that really told, better than any essay, what was not the twentieth century Italian, not the twentieth century European, but the whole twentieth century: the discovery of the people, the entry of the people into history, the ability of the popular masses to become nation, to become part and to face this process with all the contradictions, with the contradictions of the clashes, with the contradictions of violence, without ever losing - because this was one of Bertolucci's grandities - the singularity of every life. There was the individual, there was the person, without individualism, without losing the idea that the individual is always inserted into a social context and a context of relationships. Here, I believe that in sixteen extraordinary films - one of which in particular received a number of awards like no other Italian film - Bertolucci has been able to cross the great literature by dressing her extraordinary clothes of cinema; He has also been able to find original subjects that have really transformed the lives of great actors. I am thinking at this moment of how a film - which someone, mistaken in my opinion, considers minor - as a dance alone, links the difference between American and European cultures and - thinking of last Sunday - the challenge of the relationship between man and woman. It is an idea of feminine protagonism that was absolutely present in the ropes of that time. Here, Bertolucci has really crossed all this and he has been able to do it because he has always kept the antennas raised on the world, he has always been able to cross with the other arts and has always been able to listen to the different stimuli that came also from modernity. In that film, we think about how he innovates the technique and also innovates from the musical point of view. But he always knew how to be national-popular, he knew how to speak to anyone: to the educated people, who could perhaps grasp the refinement of his quote, but also to the simple man, to the woman of the market, to the woman of the bar, and to excite her, because this is the greatness of art, the greatness of the absolute truth of art, an individual truth that touches the ropes of each of us and that makes us recognize inside that big screen. Well, words can't tell all this. It would be nice if, at this time, images could really be passed on to this House. I would like to conclude my speech on a point of order, Mr President, on a point of order to all of us. This is a Chamber in which we fight so many times, in which sometimes we live and also practice miseries; we exercise power with all its contradictions. We must always have the courage to look up, to look far away; the greatness of the artists stimulates us precisely to this. Every now and then, coming out of this Chamber, taking in the hands of a book or watching an extraordinary film - and maybe these days returning to watch one of those great films by Bernardo Bertolucci - let's think about the greatness of our country, let's think about what Italy can be in an always open and dialectical relationship with the world and we have the courage to dream again. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u9	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, the Movimento 5 Stars also express their condolences for the disappearance of a great master like Bernardo Bertolucci. I will use a few words; by the way, this is a somewhat distracted House for a memorial, let me at least say that. I will use a few words because, for those who love cinema, for those who have tried to do so, for those who simply find themselves also by chance to do so, figures like that of Bernardo Bertolucci are a point of reference: they belong to the history of our country, not only to the history of cinema, but to the cultural history, to the best history of this Italy, which, among other things, has gained notoriety in the world. It is useless to remember that Bernardo Bertolucci's films are considered one of the highest, most complex and most accomplished expressions of Italian film art. The meeting and the partnership with Pasolini were decisive for Bertolucci. It is no coincidence that Pasolini's poetry is in the films of Bernardo Bertolucci and that his father Attilio was one of the first figures of reference for Pasolini himself, when he showed up with practically nothing and began his film career in Rome. But I would also like to stress that the disappearance of artists like Bernardo Bertolucci is not only a huge cultural loss but also has a implications, if we want, practical, concrete, that is the fact that there will be a lack of an enlightening point of view, mediated through his films (in the case of Pasolini through his writings as well as his films), on what happens, on history, on human relations, on society. The films, in fact, are the product of what the director observes and sees and which he enters into his own work. So the speech is rich and complex, among other things aesthetically absolutely valuable (think of the partnership with Vittorio Storaro). In short, it is important because we no longer have that look on reality, we no longer have that point of reference as well as sadness, in some way disorients us. The only remedy we have is to review his films that are the heritage, are the cultural will of a director, who survive the death of those who shot them and that allow to find again, to review the history, especially the history of Italy. Think of movies like "The conformist" or "Novecento" - extraordinary movies that contain much more than what the images are able to transmit at first. So, of course, it is a great cultural, human and artistic wound and if we want poetic too, since it really fails one of the most important voices of our culture. [[Applause from the M5S groups and the Rampi and Rufa senators.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u12	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, in recent hours we have all been struck by the death of another of the great masters of Italian cinema who has left us: Bertolucci has represented, in his long career, the great evolution of Italian cinema. That movie theater that has become great for his way of looking at the world, the reality. In many of his films there is also a union with the world of literature that very often - I think of "The conformist" - has revived, updating them, the contents of the great works. I also say this as a Roman: it was incredible Bertolucci's relationship with this city, with our Rome and with the images: I think of that image of the EUR in the movie "Il conformista" with everything that involved. Then I remember the other great meeting that deeply marked his work, the one with Pasolini. They were the two greats who gave shine not only to poetry, literature and cinema but that gave a chance of closeness and reinterpretation of history and its relationship with the last ones that was incomparable. I would like to remind you of the awards you have received internationally: the Oscar for the film "The Last Emperor," the Golden Lion, all the career prizes that are absolutely fundamental and important and have given great lustre to our country. I would therefore like to propose to the President, since in these hours there is the burning room in the Capitol to confirm the great relationship of the master with the city, the opportunity to organize in the Senate, in a less temporary way, a tribute to this great master of Italian cinema, who wanted and was able to interpret - I think of the film "Novecento" - the history of the last and poor within the great history, ennobling them very much. So we express our regret for this loss, but also our pride, as a country, for having had a great teacher like Bertolucci. [[Applause from the Mixed-Leu and M5S Groups and Senator Rampi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u15	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our Group too wishes to recall today the figure of a great master of the seventh art, Bernardo Bertolucci, who leaves a great void. His masterpieces have already been mentioned, such as the last emperor, Tea in the Desert, Nineteenth Century and also much discussed films, between communism and fascism, on moments of great passage. Those just mentioned are just some of the great successes of what was anyway a son of our Italy. Bertolucci gave lustre to the Nation, winning any prize, including an Oscar as best director and a Golden Lion for career at the Venice Film Festival. So, as we said, he leaves a great void in his family, but also in us, who have had the privilege of being a spectator of his films. Let's say goodbye to this great master and continue to follow his art, which instead will remain sculpted forever, through his films. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and the Lupo and Rampi senators.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u16	The next item is the debate on draft law No 886. The rapporteur, Senator Fenu, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, with the measures contained in the decree-law we are meeting the needs of people who have been in difficulty because of the economic crisis and the unsustainable pressure of our tax system. We are not talking about the great evaders, excluded from this measure, but about those taxpayers who have not been able to pay taxes for an objectively penalising economic situation. We are also responding to businesses, particularly small businesses, by introducing measures aimed at restoring a new relationship of trust between tax and taxpayer as a necessary precondition for the start of a gradual process of reducing the tax burden and simplifying the tax system. With the decree-law under consideration we therefore give a signal to that new weak social class and to the new poor, which previous governments have often failed to recognize. We therefore want to reverse the paradigm and turn our eyes to those who have remained without rights and prospects, especially VAT matches, without adequate social protection, despite being the driving force and the heart of our economy. The decree-law under consideration covers various forms of simplified definition of tax debts, solutions which contribute to the so-called tax peace and which mainly concern the following measures: the facilitated definition of the verbal detection processes, provided for in Article 1 of the decree-law, which allows taxpayers to define the disputes delivered by 24 October 2018, by making a special declaration and paying the only self-liquidated tax without sanctions or interest; the facilitated definition of the acts of the investigation procedure referred to in Article 2 of the decree-law, which allows taxpayers to define the notices of verification by paying the taxes only due, without sanctions, interest and ancillary sums; the cancellation of the debitory records for the roles under 1.000 euros dating back to the period 2000-2010, which allows to cancel old roles of very small amounts that the State has not been able to recover for years and whose residual recovery, in any case, would lead the State to spend much more than it could gain; the facilitated definition of the pending claims, which provides that a victorious taxpayer with the agency of the revenues at first instance may emerge from the dispute by pouring out of the 40 per cent of the degree of the decree, instead, which may have been paid by the third. To this extent it is expected to scrap the most recent debitory folders by paying the original tax with the cancellation of sanctions and interest. In addition, they are brought from two to five years within which to pay the instalments of payments. In the Commission's examination, we also extended tax peace to those who made formal mistakes. Irregularities may therefore be defined in fractions of formal obligations or obligations provided that they do not affect the calculation of the tax base for direct taxes, VAT and IRAP. A sum of EUR 200 will therefore have to be paid for each tax period to which the infringement relates. The definition of formal irregularities does not apply to the emergence of financial assets and assets constituted or held outside the territory of the State. In addition, with part of the proceeds from the measure we are going to refinance the baby bonus, which will have 204 million for 2019 and 240 million for 2020. We also set up a €474 million fund from 2019 and €50 million from 2020 to finance interventions that concern public housing, road network and hydrogeological disruption of areas affected by disasters in September and October 2018. In addition, a number of measures to simplify and reduce the impact of the launch of e-invoicing between private individuals from 1 January 2019 with a moratorium on sanctions for the first half of 2019. We have also foreseen the incompatibility between the role of President of the Region and that of extraordinary commissioner for the plan of return of the health debt. In this way we eliminate the risks of commissions and conflicts of interest. Among the requirements of health commissioners from now it is expected to have held positions of administration or management of public or private health structures or, in any case, to have held positions of particular complexity also in terms of the prevention of corruption and the protection of legality. As far as work is concerned, however, we have provided for an additional 12 months of mobility by way of derogation for workers in the Imerese and Gela Termini areas and for all those areas covered by the so-called complex industrial crisis areas. We have also set up an operational table to define a new strategy for countering the caporalate and exploitation of work in agriculture. This table will be composed of representatives of the Ministries of Interior, Justice, Agricultural Policies, Infrastructure and Transport, ANPAL, Labour Inspectorate, INPS, Carabinieri Command, Finance Guard, Regions and ANCI. Finally, we have adopted an amendment laying the foundations for the creation of a single telecommunications network. The operation aims to promote the development of investments in ultra-wideband network infrastructures and is also functional to the protection of constitutional values: from fundamental freedoms to the guarantee of access to the Internet; from economic development to social and territorial cohesion; from the digital growth of the country to the protection of employment in a strategic sector such as that of telecommunications. (The sitting was suspended at 9.28 a.m.) (The sitting was suspended at 9.28 a.m. and resumed at 9.28 a.m.) This is also part of the Digital Agenda, which aims to speed up the spread of the high-speed Internet and take advantage of the benefits of a single digital market for households and businesses. It has the objective, by 2020, to allow access to the Internet at speeds much higher than the current ones. On the point it must also be remembered that the National Strategy for the ultra-wide band has the objective to guarantee by 2020 the coverage with nets beyond 100 megabits for at least 85% of the Italian population, as well as for all the public buildings, industrial poles, areas of economic interest main tourist resorts and logistic junctions, as well as the coverage with nets to at least 30 megabits for the total of the Italian population. In order to pursue this objective, the decree paves the way for the creation of a single network company, to which the current networks of Tim and Open Fiber would be conferred. Today the existence of two companies involves the dispersion of resources that could be used in a much more efficient way: a single network allows, instead, savings consisting in the definition of investment strategies in the networks, not to mention that connections faster and efficient, especially if extended to the current white areas of the market - those considered useless by the current operators because too little profitable - represent a savings in itself, if we consider the reduction of the costs that would arise for the users from a greater efficiency of the network. In conclusion, the most important part of the measure, the fiscal one, contains simplified definition rules that will have to represent - together with those introduced in order to regulate the new accounting requirements and the simplification and rationalization of the same - a turning point in the relationship between State and citizens. In the tax field, it is necessary to overcome the common places, introducing a clear distinction between the evader and the one who, for reasons independent of his will, failed, for mere lack of liquidity, to promptly pay the taxes due, widening, where possible, the use of the instrument of active repentance in order to allow the payment in a delayed way or with a delay on the same payments. In this respect, I personally do not think it is right and proper to define the evader as the taxpayer who, while always declaring his income, in accordance with the current tax system, has been forced, in a context of absolute legality, by problems related to liquidity, to postpone or omit the payment of taxes. It has often been considered much easier to ride the easy indignation on the subject of evasion, linked above all to the reading of the reality offered by those who can count on incomes that allow for greater economic security; security that self-employed workers, professionals and businesses have instead been frustrated in recent years. I should like to conclude by thanking the Commission: Commission officials, President Bagnai, representatives from the Government and fellow Commissioners from all political parties who have actively participated in the discussion of the decree-law through timely work, with the common objective of improving the measure. These tax measures are a first step: they are also necessary to indicate the direction we want to follow: the protection of the dignity of taxpayers, workers, businesses, the dignity of those who have always created wealth in our country. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u18	: The minority rapporteur, Senator Conzatti, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u19	I therefore call the minority rapporteur, Senator Conzatti.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u20	Mr President, representative of the government, senators and senators, I will soon speak to the civic and committed spirit that is waking up in our country to say that we are concerned. I am talking about the tax decree-law by taking a step backwards to say where the same is, in a macroeconomic context, in a context in which the budget law is being discussed in the other branch of Parliament. The macroeconomic context is absolutely worrying: 70 billion euros have gone into smoke; the infamous spread, since the beginning of the legislature, has grown by 170 basis points; the BTPs have lost 11% of their value, investors, retails, are fleeing from the subscription of our public debt, and in fact the auction that went deserted last week, as happened in the distant and critical 2012, confirms it. This is also confirmed by yesterday's Ministry of Economy and Finance, which canceled the 13 December auction due to excess liquidity (they say), but we fear for the fear of this Executive to see itself crystallized in another desert auction. The Bank of Italy has certified that the wealth of Italians has decreased by 3.5% in this first part of the 18th legislature and all this makes us feel very worried and we would like that concern to contaminate the Executive too. Some say that these are numbers, but we say that something worse has happened, because all this collapse has only happened to chat, because the so-called numbers still have to be approved: the budget law has yet to be approved in the House, the tax decree will be approved between today and tomorrow, so this collapse of the macroeconomic context has only taken place as a result of proclamations. The draft budget law that will come to the Senate next week amounts to almost 37 billion and we consider it to be short-sighted, because it takes 37 billion to put in place welfare measures, to maintain VAT as it is, not to lower taxes and to mortify the public employment once again, allocating only one billion to strengthen the law enforcement agencies, those in charge of justice. Taxes are not reduced, except for 1.2 percent of lucky VAT matches that will pay much less than those who will have equal incomes in public work. It is an ineffective maneuver, but today we are called to question the sources of these jobs, that is, how we cover them. The government intends to cover jobs with 22 billion additional deficits out of 36 billion maneuvering, and we do not think it is serious, with 8 billion cuts (but it has not yet been well understood on which Ministries, whether they will be linear or if they will follow forward-looking plans such as those drawn up by Cottarelli), and realizing 8 billion revenue. That is what we are asking ourselves today: how do we want to do this 8 billion revenue? Looking at the measure, which will come to the Senate next week, we note that there will be 8 billion more taxes, especially on banks and insurance, but also and dramatically in terms of lower net benefits on companies. In fact, the cut in corporate income tax (IRI) and economic growth aid (ACE), replaced by a very small and false flat tax and mini Ires, will have a negative balance on taxpayers, companies, on the backbone of our country. Moreover, it is intended to make cash, revenue, by introducing e-invoicing, intended not as a means of bringing the productive world into the future, but as an anti-evasion instrument, at the expense of taxpayers. Then, little thing, there is some sanatoria, some scraping, some pardon. Today we are talking about this because the tax decree consists of three parts: one introduces the condonons and will produce only about one billion euros of financing out of 37 maneuvering; another provides for the introduction of e-invoicing and another part still very full omnibus, regarding which we would like to point out a very important issue. I would like to say that many of these measures which review very important sectors of our national productive fabric, such as cooperative credit and broadband, have been dealt with by amendment, bypassing all the parliamentary debate, the hearings and the only serious thing in this Parliament, namely the in-depth reflection on the important things to do for the future of this country. Let's go to the condones. A magic, because they were able to make the condons almost without revenue. A very great opportunity has been missed, because a real tax decree-law would have to deal with what has been said to be urgent, that is, a true reform of the tax system. For us, a real tax reform is this: to introduce a thorough review of tax expenditure; to introduce a first phase of flat tax, which does not make anyone angry by introducing a no tax area to maintain the progressiveness of the tax and reducing the two lowest rates so as to help immediately, urgently, the most difficult social classes at this time. Was all this done? No, of course; absolutely nothing. We have missed the great opportunity to make politics, that is, to give a vision of the future on this decree; we have missed the great opportunity to introduce instruments to meet what I want to call the backbone of this country, that is those who create goods, services and jobs. Without the political vision, we have devoted ourselves in an orderly manner, as colleagues have said, to suggest ordinary amendments to an ordinary tax decree that perhaps would be better called omnibus. And we did it mainly in five ways. We pointed out that it was given the opportunity to condone the verbal processes of observation, the notices of investigation, the pending disputes: it was therefore given the possibility of condoning those who had not paid. The only thing that could not be done was to give the possibility to those who had regularly paid, and who made formal mistakes or could not pay taxes for difficulties, i.e. the beneficiaries - let's say - of Bonari notices, of condoning. That was not possible. It was also not possible to standardise the treatment of those who derived from scraping-b. There have been random windows, storms, which differentiate taxpayers who are in the same situations. There is therefore no coherence. Then we had completely forgotten the public sector, the taxes of public bodies, Tari and IMU. We suggested an amendment, which was accepted by the Government. On fiscal disputes the compass of realism was lost, why is it realistic to think that the taxpayer is partially victorious in a dispute with the tax? We have given the opportunity to define these positions as well. Then we gave the opportunity to define the only thing that had to be done, namely the violations of statements that did not affect taxes, that is, those who paid everything, but who committed merely formal errors. This is now possible. We have struggled - and I must say this - in vain, dramatically, to prevent the lengthening of the time limits for verification. Why should a pardon that has been presented as a noble instrument of fiscal pacification cause erga omnes to prolong the time limits for verification? This is unacceptable in restoring a fair relationship between tax and taxpayer. However, as my colleague said, we have worked well, with the President, with the Government, with colleagues. We have worked well, we have understood each other, we have humanly supported ourselves in this battle, in the interest - at least on our part - of taxpayers, in order to prevent this vision in which the taxpayer is only an evader from passing completely. We do not agree with this vision. What we absolutely agreed on is e-invoicing. E-invoicing cannot be an archetype of an instrument to make cash on the producer. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to conclude your speech. CONZACTI, minority rapporteur. Thank you, Mr President. It is the idea sui generis that this Government has of the productive world, which denies it the importance and dignity of being truly the backbone of this country. An e-invoicing that did not help by eliminating sanctions throughout 2019, which did not shift the deadline for the introduction of e-invoicing for the smallest players, which did not even facilitate the purchase of software instrumentation and did not facilitate the training of staff. How can a State claim to introduce an obligation on taxpayers when it itself is not complicant? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, finish your surgery. CONZACTI, minority rapporteur. It is not complicant because there are no computer networks that allow all taxpayers to send electronic invoicing to the SDI in time, which is the exchange platform Much worse than all this - I repeat - is the omnibus part, which highlights what we do not agree on, namely the failure to respect the centrality of Parliament: they do not revise themselves and do not upset the tax decrees by amendment. The centrality is Parliament's. We fight against those who do not share this idea of the future, aspiring to an unhappy decrease, and we work to build another Italy, serious and far-sighted. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and the Senators D'Arienzo and Giannuzzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u21	The minority rapporteur, Senator D'Alfonso, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u22	I therefore call the minority rapporteur, Senator D'Alfonso.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u23	Mr President, I would like to thank you and the House for their attention to this subject, which is not just any subject. It is the argument that our country-system provides for the enhancement of financial resources, or at least this should be the heading of the norm. The name of the decree-law makes us think that this instrument should be the one that allows the country-system to have tax certainty, tax functionality and revenue, to ensure that decisions, rights, opportunities and conveniences find - as I like to say - coverage. Here is how the tax system is configured in Italy, at this moment, that is, before the existence of the decree-law that we will deal with, I hope with increasing attention: 40,716.548 taxpayers, 30,700,000 of whom pay taxes, equal to 76 percent of the audience of Italians who have duty and right; 840 billion are the tax collection and contribution. In 2017, the actions of our country-system led to a recovery of tax evasion of 20 billion euros. Since I am speaking to an Assembly that has normative force and political judgment, I quote the sources: I am talking about the House and Senate dossier, which reports the figure of EUR 20 billion as a fruitful outcome of the fight against evasion. We have also led to a reduction in the tax burden of - 1.1%. What is the additional problem to be faced with with the instrument called in the past tax decree-law? To ensure that the fight against evasion continues, as there is still a possible scope for work of EUR 120 billion. We did the hearings, ladies and gentlemen, not to embellish the time of not working in the Commission, but because they were used to increase the elements, knowledge and robustness of our decisions: we audited the Court of Auditors, in the figure of the President (not the private study centre, but the President of the Court of Auditors Buscema); the National Revenue Agency, the one you have renewed; the Finance Guard, in the figure of the summit and then the head of the department of the MEF Taxation. All four of these figures have told us that e-invoicing is an infrastructure that contributes to the success of our tax system. We, in the 26 articles of the decree-law called decree-tax law, found everything except that the bet to make electronic invoicing work more. On the other hand, we have found weakening, watering and attempts to divert the capacity to establish and strengthen e-invoicing. This is because there is a guiding idea of the tax decree-law, which is to conceive this provision as a sort of basket, a container that must satisfy segments of selfish stakeholders. I quote a case that helps me a lot and, if I were in a court of law, I would win the case: what was done about electronic cigarettes. In the face of the intervention of constitutional justice, which says that that taxation is fair, that it must be exact, claimed, taken and put into the investment circuit, the legislator organizes a discount, a donation, an excessive friendliness; other than compliance! Friendliness, gelatinousness that removes 187 million euros. In 1991 a President of the Republic very eager to say how things were, addressing a minister at the time, commenting on a "courtesy," which was classified as such, made by that Minister to the Olivetti Group, said at least that the Minister's party could at least get paid for the election campaign. The donation that has been made on electronic cigarettes, in my opinion, it is good that it becomes the subject of a conference, a doctorate, a degree course to understand how the tax decree-law is not done, how we do not build the tax rule against those who owe and have tax obligation. But we also need to talk about Article 9, perhaps the fruit of the hand. This is the only decree-law that was given birth twice, once forty-two days ago and again thirty-seven days ago, at two meetings of the Council of Ministers. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] So much so that the professor of public law Giuseppe Marazzita, son of the lawyer Nino Marazzita who fights for consumers citizens, in a degree course dedicated to public law, argues that it is an originality proper to this deliberative season, ministerial, political, a decree-law that sees twice the light. Why was there a double deliberation? What was the theme that made the difference between first and second draft? Article 9, that of the special supplementary declaration application, which allowed an indigestible pardon even to the existence of the government contract. That pardon referred to in Article 9, in fact, was the lump that broke the government contract, because in fact it was then removed, erased, reduced, admitted, made compatible with the view of the whole coalition. But what was the originality of that article 9, which is no longer there, but which we must keep in mind, as a stigma of what must no longer be done? The flat tax was determined for the evader. The flat tax, which is a great chapter of the government contract, of this success of which you have been able on the electoral level, only for the evaders, appears because of the hand and disappears because the hand disappears; the flat tax, with the rate at 20% only for these lucky ones. But why? What is the view of the relationship between citizens and the State, between taxpayer and law-duty, obligatory? That is what we have worked on in the Commission. In the Commission we were not elements of furniture or conflict: we tried, one by one, to sew the legs to a tax law that cannot be invalidated. There is a rule concerning the decree-law in question which has also been very much targeted by the Court of Auditors, where the Court recalls that the contractual improvement between taxpayer and tax law cannot be achieved by the payment of the first instalment. The first instalment, which perfects the contract between taxpayer and tax system, blows up all the follow-up of the obligations. It is not by chance that scraping -bis has known a sort of debris, because the words "from July to follow" have made it clear that there would be a debris-b. There is a great tax law scholar in Italy who deserves to be heard in depth and that we must take into account; we would need to put the photograph of Professor Franco Gallo in the Finance Committee and treasure of our Senate reality. Franco Gallo says that one cannot joke with tax law; words hurt, disorient and in some way destabilize. What was created in July? Circulating the rumor that there would be sanatoria, fiscal jubilee, people stopped paying and lacked income. If there's no income, the country system can't be a country, a state, and a nation. Other than conferences on sovereignty, nationalism and the more that the country system has to do. Let's agree then; the tax decree-law provides for the provision and then the budget law allocates. This measure is a kind of ark where there is everything: highways, port authorities, the digital super subject, all the issues that lie in a shredded agenda, as if the government ended tomorrow morning. When do you put so many themes into one measure? When there is distrust or when it is believed that the whole world is about to end. So let's redo a decree-law to the level, we carry with respect to the names, the institutions and the rules. I hope the Senate will help us in this direction today. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u24	I communicate that a number of questions have been referred for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator De Petris to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1 (text 2). You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u25	Mr President, we have chosen to present the question of constitutionality because we cannot be resigned to the fact that the use of the instrument of the decree-law is now absolutely well established even when there are no references under Article 77 of the Constitution; this is evident in the provision before our examination. We do not want to resign ourselves because it is absolutely impossible to continue to accept almost supinatively a reform of our Constitution by now in fact. In fact, it is evident that the continuous and constant recourse to the decree of urgency, which certainly is not proper only to the current Government, but is established practice of at least the last twenty years in the country, is producing a twist on which one continues to pretend nothing. We continue to talk about it in conventions or hearings by constitutionalists whenever a majority of government presents a draft constitutional reform, but then everything goes on in the same way. In fact a vulnus has been created in Article 70 of the Constitution which entrusts the exercise of the legislative function in a clear way collectively to the two Chambers, when instead, in 80% of cases, it has become exclusive of the Executive. And then again a tax measure, conceived and indicated as related to the budget law, comes in the form of a decree-law. Even curious things happen. In the decree-law, in fact, in denouncing Article 77 of the Constitution, some measures, for example, do not come into force immediately, but are moved far in time. Let us think, for example, of the provisions of Articles 1 and 10 of the measure, or of Article 11, which allows, for example, the issue of invoices within ten days of the transaction, but only from 1 July 2019. This is contrary to what our Constitution says. There is also an innovation that I wish to point out to you and to the Offices and which has also been clearly indicated by the House's own Committee for Legislation. It is becoming more and more common for the Council of Ministers to approve, as they say in jargon, the shirt of the decree-law, while the content is gradually modified and juxtaposed over time. I am thinking, for example, of the last decree-laws presented by the Count Government: Decree-Law No. 109 of 2018 is in fact moved fifteen days from the date of approval in the Council of Ministers to the date of publication, the decree-law on the ten-day Ministries, the eleven-day dignity decree, the ten-day security decree. At this point, the Committee on the Law of the House said that it would be appropriate to examine the consequences of consolidating this practice in terms of legal certainty and respect for the principle of the immediate application of decree-laws, as set out in Article 15 of Law No 400 of 1988. Therefore, not only is the practice of expropriating Parliament's legislative function and of constantly resorting to the decree-laws, but today, moreover, we have another innovation that ensures that there is no certainty of the entry into force of the decree-law itself, not only by this Government, but also by denouncing what was said just a few months ago by some of its authoritative members. There is also another element that has become established practice, but that is very serious especially in this tax decree. I am referring to the fact that all these decree-laws no longer have uniform content. We are facing the departure of an omnibus decree. This tax decree, in fact, with the various adjustments made in the following days has become an omnibus decree thanks to a series of rules already inserted in the passage to the Commission (you have the whole list of the amendments approved in that place); I refer to rules absolutely uneven between them and that have nothing to do, among other things, with the title and the purposes of the decree. Some are also acceptable. I am thinking, for example, of the amendment adopted on the Caporalate and of the amendments relating to mobility by way of derogation in complex areas. However, provisions have been inserted that have nothing to do with the decree at our examination, such as those on natural disasters, on the relaunch of Campione d'Italia and the casino, on the issue of broadband, an extension of obligations in the matter of public works and so I could continue, running out of time at my disposal. This too - let us call it that - is consolidating over time at the end of the expropriation of their role Parliament and oppositions, in particular. In fact, if it is the oppositions who table certain amendments, they are almost never declared admissible because they have content unrelated to the object of the decree itself. The result is that there is a strengthening of the powers of the majority, with a distortion of the relations between the majority and the opposition not indifferent, which allows through the rapporteur and other members of the majority, to include provisions within the measure which do not have the time to be deepened. I am thinking of broadband and a whole range of other rules. Then I come to one of the most sensitive issues of this decree-law, which, among other things, as related, should have been the safe of the budget law; in the end it turned out to be not a big one, but a small safe, because a series of rules contained in it will certainly bring revenue not adequate to cover the various commitments of the budget law. Then we are talking about the whole issue that is called fiscal pacification, which I would like to call tax return. I am thinking, for example, of the question of the rebreaking of the debitory folders: in your opinion, is this a way of giving that legal certainty and the rules that should be absolutely central in the tax system? There is a further intervention on the other break-up, once again in spite of the provisions of Article 53 of the Constitution, according to which all are obliged to contribute to public expenditure due to their contribution capacity and the tax system is informed of progressive criteria. That rule, in particular, introduces a form of disparity, so that those who have closed the break-up before, perhaps accepting only the two instalments, are now excluded; another audience of taxpayers, instead, who may not yet have completed the phase of the break-up, will be able to avail themselves of advantageous legislation. It is clear, therefore, how unequal treatment is created, in violation of Article 3 of our Constitution. And once again, what is to be said, contrary to the fact that in tax matters no subsequent law can affect the principle of the absolute inalterability and inalterability of the criteria of departure, granting favorable treatment? [[Call the president back.]] It's not a fight against tax evasion! In conclusion, once again, it is said: be quiet, that sooner or later in this country a pardon arrives, so don't join or be a little 'cautious to adhere now to these norms, because so much will come another. And in your opinion, this is the respect of Article 53 of the Constitution, of decent people and of most taxpayers, who are the ones to whom the levy is made directly? I absolutely don't think so. For all these reasons, dear President and my fellow Members, I would ask, pursuant to Rule 93 of our Rules of Procedure, not to proceed with the examination of the draft law in question. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Collina.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u26	He asked Senator Grimani to comment on the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u27	Mr President, we would like to refer to Parliament's discussion the question we are proposing in relation to Decree-Law No 119 of 2018. Given that there are significant doubts regarding the constitutional legitimacy of the measure under consideration, due to the absence of the essential requirements for the use of the Decree-Law, the inclusion in the decree of a multiplicity of heterogeneous measures is contrary to the necessary link between the urgent legislative provision and the extraordinary case that would have made it necessary, according to the Constitution, transforming the decree-law into a set of rules assembled only by mere temporal chance and without a unitary purpose. The fact, then, that the measures provided for in the decree-law are extremely heterogeneous to each other is in itself a clear demonstration of the lack of the requirement of the extraordinaryness of the case and of the necessity and urgency to provide. In fact, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, the prerequisites for the exercise of legislative power by the Government concern the decree-law in its entirety, understood as a set of uniform provisions for the matter or for the purpose. As stated by the Constitutional Court in judgment No 22 of 2012, where the disciplines outside the unitary ratio of the decree presented, according to the political judgement of the Government, autonomous profiles of necessity and urgency, the same well could be contained in urgent acts of the executive power separate and separate. On the other hand, it is contrary to Article 77 of the Constitution to the mixing and overlapping, in the same legislative act, of heterogeneous objects and purposes, in view of the assumptions, in turn, heterogeneous. Consider that this last case concerns with all evidence the present decree-law, which reveals a manifest heterogeneity of the regulated subjects: there are in fact the numerous measures of pardon and sanatorium, there is a whole series of measures regarding the Ferrovie dello Stato, the Cassa Integrazione per riorganizzazione o crisi azienda and the increase of the fund for the participation Italian to the international missions previewed in the law n. 145 of 2016, whose ordinary financing certainly cannot be considered an extraordinary case of urgent necessity and urgency. The precise constitutional jurisprudence in this matter, with the judgments of the Court n. 171, 2007 and 128, 2008... Maybe someone should listen to us from the government desks. Thank you. I recalled the judgments of the Constitutional Court no. 171 of 2007 and 128 of 2008, which have established that the existence of the constitutional conditions referred to in Article 77 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights cannot be deduced from the apodittic enunciation of the existence of the reasons for necessity and urgency, nor can it be exhausted in the ascertainment of the reasonableness of the discipline introduced. In these decisions, however, the Consultative Committee stressed that the assessment of the existence of constitutional conditions cannot be merely subjective, but must also be based on objective findings, according to a judgment that cannot be reduced to the assessment in terms of the mere reasonableness or opportunity of the rules introduced. It should be borne in mind that the recent controversy within the Commission over the inclusion of tax remission rules in the decree-law, which would not have been examined and approved by the Council of Ministers, is a direct consequence of a way of lawmaking based on the abuse of decree-laws. Therefore, if we want to avoid these drawbacks that undermine the credibility of the Commission, the majority forces should limit the use of the decree of urgency, as unfortunately often happened in this legislature, and present their proposals in ordinary bills, as prescribed by the Constitution, assuming full political responsibility. The Chambers will discuss them and approve them, with the publicity that characterizes the parliamentary work to guarantee the transparency, collegiality and democracy of the ordinary legislative process, which the Constitution assigns to Parliament as a representative body of all citizens. In addition, account should be taken of the fact that there are serious doubts about the substance of the measure: the first concerns the most comprehensive maintenance of the tax system, which the decree-law in question actually calls into question. It is a structure full of sanatories and condones, which undermine the credibility of the entire tax system vis-à-vis citizens and which risk seriously undermining future tax revenues. The second serious injury to our tax system is the characteristic of these definitory measures, such as that provided for in Article 8 of the Decree-Law on the facilitation of the definition of consumption taxes. Article 8 contains the simplified definition of tax debts accrued as consumption tax with the payment of 5% of the due. It is in fact a tax sanatorium with a maxisconto, provided for the operators in the production and marketing of electronic cigarettes: a different treatment and therefore a clear and manifest violation of the principle of equality established by Article 3 of the Constitution, a clearly unreasonable discrimination, because it penalizes the taxpayers who fulfil their tax obligations and who pay the tax in full and rewards in a totally unjustified way those who have not declared and paid for what is due in time. Such irresponsible violation of the principle of equality and denial of the principle of progressiveness of the tax system discriminates against honest taxpayers and risks pushing all citizens defrauded by such injustice to violate tax rules in the future and not to pay taxes due by reason of sanatories that reward illegal behaviour. The intervention provided for in Article 3 is a clear damage to the public budget. In essence, the new rules on the simplified definition (breakdown-b) of the cargoes entrusted to the collecting agent reproduce existing rules, which, because of the variations of greater favor in terms of installment and reduction of interest (which will be paid to 0.3 instead of the previous 2%) and sanctions, have the effect of producing less revenue to the treasury on the ordinary collection and on the facilitated definition of the cargoes entrusted to the collecting agent currently in progress. I conclude with a reflection on Article 4 concerning the cancellation of debts of up to 1,000 euros entrusted to the collection agents that largely concern the credits of the Municipalities - TARSU, infringements, ICI, school fees - in addition to those of the Regions for the auto stamp. This measure undermines the principle of local authorities' autonomy, inter alia, by causing the unexpected budget deficit for the local authorities involved. In this respect, it would have been more respectful of local self-governments to grant, instead of deletion, a time limit to the creditor institution for the reactivation of the non-prescribed credit by notifying an order for payment by the specified date, thus safeguarding the budgets of the local authorities involved. For all the reasons we have listed and the assessments made, we ask, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, not to proceed to the examination of the bill n. 886. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u28	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u31	COMINANCES (PD). Mr President, the decree-law before us, as illustrated in the reports of the Commissions and in the preliminary rulings presented earlier, is characterized as a decree-law without the reasons for urgency that our Constitution makes necessary for the Government to be able to issue a decree-law and thus replace the legislative power attributed to Parliament. We also have a heterogeneity of measures that characterise its content. They have repeatedly referred to the Constitutional Court's judgments which have well illustrated, they have clearly indicated the path that should be followed by the Government in order to use this instrument to legislate urgently, but it does not appear that these criteria have been transposed by the Commission. We are therefore faced with a decree-law that is a sort of Ark of Noah, which tries to secure a number of benefits, or even to extend some benefits for limited categories, without there being a clear and obvious connection between the different measures. It's a stew. These measures, however, also lead to discrimination against taxpayers. There is a discriminatory attitude: the measure discriminates because it penalises those taxpayers who fulfil their tax obligations, who pay the tax in full and instead rewards in an unjustified way those who have not declared and paid for their dues in time; this is serious for the state to do so. As explained in the minority report, the fact that this decree-law has seen the light twice shows that the government itself has had serious difficulties in developing its own strategy but in fact the strategy is not there. The reason why it was re-approved by the Council of Ministers is because within the majority a clear vulnus had been created on one of the key points of the decree that in the Commission, by means of amendments, rewritings and multiple versions of the same amendment, was further deflated. But then we wonder what the reasons are and whether there are the reasons that lead today to vote on a decree-law that had no reason for actual urgency because the treatment of the measures it contains could be the subject of an ordinary bill. Even some of these measures could easily be included in the budget law that the other branch of Parliament has begun to discuss. We believe that respect for the Constitution and the ways in which the Government is called upon to intervene in the legislative function must make everyone in this House reason that there is no reason to continue examining the decree-law. If we then go into the substance, as has been pointed out in the reports and in the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, we have a number of critical elements, on the one hand discriminatory - as has been mentioned - but on the other hand too contradictory and too confused. We speak in fact of Ferrovie dello Stato, harbour authorities, Cassa Integrazione, international missions, banks of cooperative credit, building affiliated, besides all the matter of the condonons and the sanatories, as it has been illustrated: they are too many subjects, between them diversified, without that it emerges clearly where is the urgency to have to proceed with a decree-law, instead of with ordinary laws diversified. If we then consider how the attitude of the Government, with the measure under consideration, aims to urge and tickle that behavior, which should instead be condemned, which is to be smart in relation to its fiscal responsibilities towards the State, we understand that this is a decree-law that, even from the point of view of political pedagogy, should be immediately set aside and should not be discussed. What were the urgent measures, which could have been contained in this measure and which are not there? I am thinking of the measures that could have continued in the virtuous recovery of tax evasion: they have already been mentioned and this is not the first time that this has emerged. When we approved the 2017 report it was certified, by the Government, that the tax evasion recovered had assumed considerable dimensions. This is the action that should be encouraged by the Government and that should be further developed, but there is no trace of this measure. The other measure is the one that should go in a structured way to continue the reduction of the tax burden and instead, again, the decree-law under consideration only makes small adjustments - as has been pointed out in the discussion - with measures that go to give small benefits to limited portions of taxpayers. There is nothing to do with the actions undertaken by previous governments which have led to a reduction of more than the percentage point of the tax burden. A recovery of the evasion of 20 billion euros represents something extremely significant, which allows those who have to recover resources in order to be able to finance their own measures - as the government has to do - to be able to make sure more reasonings consistent with the objectives that have been given to us. Instead the decree-law under consideration and the measures contained in it tend to give gifts to those who have not paid taxes. Senator Fenu's report pointed out that he is the evader who, while wanting to pay taxes, could not do so because of the rigidities of the legislation and it was argued that the decree-law in question protects the dignity of workers, taxpayers and businesses. In my opinion, the opposite is true, precisely because the decree-law does not protect the dignity of workers who pay taxes ordinarily, it does not protect the dignity of taxpayers who regularly fulfil their tax duties, it does not protect the dignity of companies that pay taxes ordinarily and with difficulty. These considerations therefore make us say that the decree-law in question is not for the dignity and correctness of the relationship between taxpayer and state. For these reasons we believe that there is no reason to proceed with the examination of this decree-law and our invitation to the Government is to withdraw it and proceed by working in Parliament with measures that really indicate the direction of the Executive and the country. This must be the direction of a recovery of ongoing evasion, of a relationship between the State and taxpayers that is correct, oriented in a constant and appropriate way to the reduction of the tax burden. This is the path that the Commission and Parliament should follow. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u34	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking only to reject the question, of course, because we believe that, compared to what has been said, there are very positive elements for which it is necessary today to vote in favour of this decree-law. Meanwhile, because it introduces not a pardon, as has been said, but a new relationship with the tax authorities, based on mutual trust. In it is included the break-up-b, on conditions decidedly more favorable than the previous one; a broader period; reduced interest rates; the write-off of debts up to 1,000 euros: obviously tax debts, which concern the charts from 2000 to 2010; a facilitated definition of pending tax disputes; the regularization of amateur sports societies and associations through facilities: a sector, that of sport, which is in great difficulty and which, in our opinion, must also be supported at political level. If we do not support it, in fact, then you go and tell our boys that we want to make them grow, we want to help them and support them through a fundamental tool for the growth of our young people. Again, on e-invoicing: how many times in this House, since it comes into force on 1 January 2019, we have heard of all the difficulties that exist. Well, there is the reduction of sanctions, especially by cancelling them in some cases, such as when the invoice is issued beyond the legal deadline; there is the question of VAT, where the dealer may deduct the tax in the liquidation relating to the month in which the invoice was issued. This too is a request repeatedly urged by our entrepreneurs and artisans. There is support for the facilitations for the road haulage system, which is in difficulty, with a financing tied also to the harbour system. There is the famous article 9, with the re-introduction of the baby bonus, even with benefits, because there is 20 percent more than the second child. As for the facilitations on e-cigarettes, why do you have to pay more taxes if they ultimately hurt less? This fact someone in here, sooner or later, will have to explain it to me. You call it pardon, but it's a regularization of formal errors. Do we want to go and tell our citizens that, because of formal errors in the compilation of the tax return, they have to pay sanctions? [[Applause from Senator Bonfrisco.]] It seems fair to meet them, however, because if the mistake was formal it is not the case of someone who wanted to be smart. In fact, in view of our overly complicated tax system, it also seemed right to intervene and to facilitate the simplification that we often feel we want in this House, according to everyone! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Do we want to forget the support for the populations that have been affected by the latest devastation? Here too, there is a significant contribution. We have made several interventions, certainly recalling an intervention by the Government itself to help and support these populations; and we have seen that the devastation has been many. To close, I recall the issue of ultra-wideband, which sees the unification and integration of networks to improve efficiency. I have summarized all the measures contained - which seems a bit like the list of expenditure. Honestly, ladies and gentlemen, since there is no such thing as pardon, I find it hard to understand how we are going to make a reference to a decree-law which contains such important measures towards our citizens. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] I'm having a hard time figuring that out. The opposition plays its part, but rather criticizes the measure at a constructive level; to present prejudices means to blow up these measures. We do not take this responsibility; you take it and it will be the voters who decide. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u37	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, I am speaking for a few minutes because I do not have enough voice, but I would like to present the position of Brothers of Italy. We have listened to the reasons contained in the preliminary rulings submitted under Rule 93 of our Rules of Procedure but, although we may perhaps share the merit of some passages, such as the criticism of the use of the instrument of decree-law, or the principle of urgency, we absolutely cannot agree with the method. We want to discuss and analyse this measure; we want to fight in this House exactly as we have already fought in the Commission. We have also managed to table three of our amendments. We have tabled five agendas. If we do not share the whole, but if we do, we want to fight, we want to discuss this in this House, which is why the logic of the prejudices is alien, distant, because it removes the necessary debate and debate from this House. We want to discuss the measure here, reaffirming what has already been said in the Commission as much as it is acceptable (very little) and as much as it is not acceptable (most, if not all). Brothers of Italy reiterates, with his vote of abstention to the prejudices presented, his patriotic opposition, always done in the interest and good of the country first of all. This is our position. We hope that this House will be able to deal with the examination of the decree-law and, for our part, we want to discuss it and combat it constructively. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u38	Pursuant to Rule 93 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Senator De Petris and other senators (QP1, text 2) and Senator Grimani and other senators (QP2). (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today the decree-tax law arrives in this House after several days spent with colleagues of the Commission trying to contribute to a tax decree-law that today we can really rename omnibus decree, but not tax at all; after several days, in which Brothers of Italy tried, with the seriousness that it wants to distinguish us, to make a contribution without ever doing obstructionism. We boast that we have not wasted a minute of our time in obstructionism, but that we have tried, forcefully, with commitment, with determination, to improve the decree-law on our examination. A measure which, as I will be able to say later when I make an analysis in the explanation of vote, does not satisfy us. I would like, however, in this context of general discussion to focus on a subject which is certainly not fiscal, since, as I said, what we are examining today is an omnibus decree, but which could at least have given the "stellatte" to this decree-law. I am referring to the issue of credit, which unfortunately was one of the many negative features of the last parliamentary term and which saw the Democratic Party as the protagonist of the dissolution of the Italian banking system. I expected this issue to be addressed, by those who call themselves the majority of change, with a real desire to give breath back to national credit, that national credit that - I repeat - has now disappeared from our homeland and is now controlled, like a Trojan horse, by international finance. Only one group remained to represent the Italianity of credit: cooperative credit, those rural coffers that we all, in our suburbs, in our valleys, have always seen as a resource of mutuality, in territoriality, in the ability to really respond to the problems and needs of artisans, peasants and small businesses. Well, the majority of the change, with their own attitude, has done nothing but give continuity to the dissolution policy implemented by the Democratic Party, by Padoan and Renzi. Brothers of Italy have been trying to propose amendments and trying to make their own the positions of the League, which were initially intended to give a signal of discontinuity; unfortunately, however, in the end we saw the blockade, we have seen that perhaps stronger powers have also convinced the League's allies to take a step back. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, today cooperative credit is such as that provided by the Padoan reform: it is no longer mutual and cooperative, but in fact controlled by a public limited company. We have therefore replaced mutuality with speculation and put our cooperative credit in the condition of being scaled by high finance, because you know very well that a public limited company can be scaled. This summer, during the examination of the one thousand-pronged decree, Brothers of Italy asked Minister Tria to raise from 51 to 60 percent the minimum share of the rural capital in the holding companies and was the only concession made to mutuality; however, despite this, even with 40 percent you can govern a holding company, a group, especially when 60 percent is in the hands of 80-100 small rural coffers. In fact, there is a great risk of climbing the holding of the rural coffers, so I dare say that unfortunately I have the certainty that in the next two or three years our cooperative credit will no longer be the assets of our nation. I would also remind you, for those who do not know, that the holding companies, these parent companies, have powers of appointment and revocation over directors and management management. It is therefore no longer the assembly of members of the rural coffers that can intervene on credit, but on what they will have to and will be able to grant to their savers and companies will intervene the parent, with the logic of a public limited company, perhaps controlled also by foreign financial instruments. In essence, the Trojan horse represented by the banking system, which today is mostly in the hands of our French cousins, is widening - I say it and I repeat it forcefully - also to what is the only bank that really remained Italian. I would also like to conclude my speech by pointing out that there are serious profiles of unconstitutionality which have been ignored, and I therefore hope that the next few months will still bring to this Parliament the will to remedy in some way this disaster involving national credit. I ask this, before I am a senator, a politician, a professional, a citizen, a member of the rural coffers. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u40	Senator Presutto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are voting on today is a preliminary and important step for the next budget law. We are faced with, and we have a duty to manage, a disproportionate number of roles entered and not cashed in, which represent a huge burden for the balance sheet and the financial balances of the nation. A burden that has been afflicting Italy for decades now and which has contributed a great deal to generating the serious financial situation that today we are called, with many difficulties, to cope with, since so far the results of previous legislative interventions have proved to be completely inadequate. It is well known that the lack of collections weighs on the state budget and how these burdens influence Parliament's choices and the legislative policies it proposes to pursue. Among the shortfalls in the state budget, in fact, in addition to the roles entered and not collected, we must also consider the enormous value represented by the hidden economic that, according to the last ISTAT report, amounts to approximately 210 billion euros, that is, more or less 13% of our GDP. Then we are talking about a tax evasion that, according to the data provided by the MEF last October, costs us about 110 billion euros. Added to this are the staggering data from the last management report, which has just been approved, which, as the Court of Auditors also pointed out, shows active residues worth some EUR 204 billion; this fact, which emphasizes even more, as if it were needed, the criticalities I mentioned earlier and which becomes even more dramatic if it is considered that net of prudential presumptions and appreciations it amounts to about EUR 900 billion, only for the item established credits not collected by the State and approved by Parliament in the last management report. These data confirm the continuing difficulty of the state to establish a positive relationship with taxpayers, a relationship that proves to be able to encourage and facilitate the latter to pay the taxes due, instead of feeding an increasing conflict on a topic of vital importance for the survival of the country itself (we speak of the financial balance of the state). These are data that make the veins tremble to the wrists and from which we must consciously share, in order to adopt all those legislative measures that are indispensable, and increasingly urgent, in order to improve the economic, financial and patrimonial situation of the State, so as to make it immune to any financial speculation. This is the only way to free Italy and the Italians from the spook of the spread. The spread can only frighten a state with a precarious financial situation: this is the real problem of Italy, to which we must remedy as soon as possible. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And it is precisely in this direction that moves the measure today to our examination: to close with a cluster of debt situations that have been carried out for decades by the State as an increasingly unsustainable ballast, and then to continue this path that will have as a priority the objective to improve the relationship between the citizen-contributor and the State. It is a real reconciliation, gradual and continuous, that passes through legislative measures aimed at revising the logic of the tax from an increasingly less vexatory perspective and, at the same time, the very functioning of the public administration, especially with a view to improving the performance. In this regard, I would add that in the next few days we will be discussing the draft law in the Chamber. We must therefore write a new chapter that redesigns the relationship between tax and taxpayer, in order to help the latter who is still obliged to face alone a tax system full of pitfalls, compliances, ever more frequent and close deadlines, as well as real retaliations. In fact, in recent decades those who have been called to lead the country have done little or nothing to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the functioning of the State, generating a negative financial trend - unfortunately confirmed by the balance sheet of the budget, which for financial data is impiety, with negative tendency character - that sees in the growing public debt its greatest and irrefutable proof. In fact, public debt is the real capital sin that is being dumped on citizens through an increasingly aggressive and guilty tax system. With the conversion of this decree-tax law we have the possibility to start a path in which taxpayers can get out of this state of fear and, above all, move a first step towards a rethinking of taxation that, at last, recognizes in the citizen a taxpayer and no longer a accused to chase and vex, restoring strength and vitality to a state-citizen relationship that is now far too deteriorated. With the conversion of this decree-tax law we take above all that first step necessary for a reconciliation between the State and the citizen, but to which we must not look as if it were an isolated fact or the result of a mere extemporaneous measure. This is, in fact, a step that must be read together with the rethinking of the functioning of the public administration; a rethinking that can bring the State under the conditions of ensuring greater effectiveness and efficiency in the provision of those services that are worthy of the best civil societies and that the State is called to ensure to all citizens. This is the commitment that the Movimento 5 Stars has made to Italy and to Italian citizens. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u42	Senator Ferrero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first measure to implement the DEF Update Note, the content of which is essentially fiscal. In particular, it is the first step towards restoring a relationship of trust between tax and taxpayer. The many rules which cover a wide range of recompositions of disputes, even if only potential, are intended to have positive effects on the decongestion of the tax justice bodies, as well as the financial offices where large human resources - and consequently financial resources - are diverted from the commitments relating to the management of the litigation in order to be directed to other more profitable activities. With regard to taxpayers' audiences, they will find themselves freed from the sometimes unsustainable weight of taxes, taxes, interest and sanctions entered in long-standing roles, but still constituting concrete impediments to the pursuit of economic activities in the light of the sun, as in the case of the small trader or small craftsman, crushed by the crisis and unable to honour old tax debts, if not putting at risk of closing down his modest activity. On the e-invoicing side, there has been action in order to remedy the critical issues in the area of privacy protection, postponing the obligation to issue them for economic operators who process known sensitive data, such as healthcare professionals, already obliged to transmit data within the health card system. This extension therefore does not affect the forecast of income formulated already by the past Government, allowing to transpose the observations of the Guarantor in adequate time. Moreover, it is noted that the obligation of e-invoicing will at the end, in 2019, cover as far as possible a limited audience of taxpayers, taking into account the exclusion of economic health professionals, flat-tax rates, retail operators, subject to tax receipts, as well as other special schemes, such as those in the agricultural sector. We are aware of the problems involved in e-invoicing, but let us not forget that the obligation of e-invoicing is a legacy left to us by the previous Government. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] By the previous Government in fact it was imposed as initial deadline 2019, previewing greater revenues for as much as 2 billion euros, as consequence of the emergence of the black. And it is this forecast of higher revenue that has, in fact, prevented the possibility of an extension, or a negative change in revenue, which cannot be filled in the short term by finding other different resources. Further action has been taken with rules to simplify tax obligations on taxpayers, in the light of what has already been done under the Dignity Decree-Law, all aimed at reducing the costs of businesses. Action has been taken to meet the need of taxpayers to mitigate the impact of the novelty, with substantial reductions in sanctions for infringements that do not involve tax evasion, with more time for issuing invoices and simplifications in the matter of recording them. In the area of digital tax justice, procedures have also been rationalised, with the introduction of telematics arrangements. It was considered that action should also be taken to reduce the tax burden on so-called electronic cigarettes, in order to overcome the complicated calculation of the equivalence of the traditional cigarette with the electronic cigarette, which led to the exodus of companies producing devices and liquids abroad. In addition, the reduction goes in a direction of incentive to abandon the traditional cigarette. To Mr D'Alfonso, a minority rapporteur, I would like to point out that, yes, there have been many, many different issues, contradictions and situations arising from the work of previous governments. And not everything has been solved yet, we are aware of it: it is not enough yet. We have begun to stem the consequences of congenial policies against the entrepreneurial class and against the taxpayer. In conclusion, the measure really goes in the direction of fiscal peace: taxpayers who have not paid taxes because they are objectively impossible, taxpayers who have declared and have remained entangled in the tax jerseys. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we have not yet reached the six months of government, yet we are here to vote on a measure in full line with what we have promised. This government is working to honour what is promised, passing - something rare in politics - from words to deeds. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u45	Mr President, the decree-law under consideration has become, in its multiform transformations, first in the Council of Ministers, which has issued it twice, then in the Commission, an omnibus decree-law, in which there is everything and the opposite of everything. There are rules of great importance, at least in the perspective that indicate, as the single company of the network, that it is introduced as a concept with a surreptitious amendment in a measure called tax decree. What the network has to do with the tax decree is difficult to explain to anyone. This is a measure that we would share, if the Government were to explain fully in the Assembly, to Parliament and to the country, what it wants to achieve with this national network, which is obviously a strategic factor also with regard to the industrial structures of the country, and with other issues, such as the bonus baby, of which you had forgotten in the maneuver. It is an omnibus decree-law, it is no longer a tax decree. Moreover, the rapporteur himself, in his speech, spoke of everything except the tax side, except in conclusion, there is the tax side. It means that it is an omnibus decree and I say that because you have fought in Parliament for transparency and rules, for procedural corrections, that in this provision there are no, but there is exactly the opposite. The Government of Change changes parliamentary procedures for the worse. The bill of conversion of the decree-law does not achieve a fiscal peace - and I address my colleague of the League - but a mini tax pardon. Tax peace, i.e. a different relationship between the citizen-contributor and the state, occurs when a tax reform is changed and that changes the procedures and the relationship between the citizen and the state. There is nothing of this in the provision, there is only a pardon, a sanatoria, however for very few. I say this in the face of a very important fiscal and economic maneuver that should come with the budget law, which is also contested in the European Parliament. You have 20 days to change the budget law and you are changing it. With what goal? From what we read, the only objective that interests you is the electoral one. The discussion is: can this Government negotiate in Europe? And what? The referral back to September of the infringement. It looks like a government of repeaters, repeaters in life, repeaters in the government. Do you ask for the infringement to be postponed to September and through what? By moving forward over time, measures related to citizenship income and the mini-reform of the so-called Fornero law, so that it affects less in 2019, but much more in the years 2020 and 2021. A postponement, a postponement to when you're no longer in government. Well, that's a profoundly wrong thing. If you change the maneuver in substance, if, for example, citizenship income becomes a resource given to the enterprise to hire even temporarily a worker, if you change the maneuver essentially so that, for example, the resources obtained are allocated to investment and infrastructure, especially in the South, then we can find ourselves again, even if the deficit remains 2.4%. The problem is not the numeretto of 2.4, it is the fate of the resources taken from taxpayers, especially those of the future, that is to say from young people. What will they be destined for? Development, infrastructure, investment? No, only electoral measures, because your objective is exclusively the European elections. This is not a Government of change, it is a Government of an electoral nature that thinks that it has - you think - such a short time that it cannot then, basically, respond to what will happen next. I shall conclude by quoting a Minister of your Government, Mr Savona, who said that the maneuver is too weak to give a boost to the economy; I would add: too weak to give a boost to the economy that has already stopped, which is already in recession in the face of the likely halt of the European and world economy. Savona also says that the maneuver is too ambiguous to convince Europe. You are too weak and too ambiguous to convince Europe; you are too weak and too ambiguous to change and develop the country. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u46	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u47	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, have a good day. I want to call in my speech "Unsolicited advice." After seven, eight months of assembly, I wonder who the speeches in general debate are addressed to: to the Government? Is the government listening to us? Do you read? If so, I am pleased, since I have a particular sympathy for the Undersecretary Bitonci, because he was also mayor. Are they aimed at colleagues, either by majority or by opposition? In the papers? To go to the papers you have to shoot some huge crap! The question I then put to my colleagues is: what is the use of the debate and who is it to talk to? But I want to leave a positive note. My party, Forza Italia, leaves me maximum freedom of expression of ideas on any topic; I do not receive orders on the mobile phone; I am close to Silvio Berlusconi, who in these hours is waiting for a sentence that has been coming for years. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The tax decree is the aperitif of the budget law and in the budget law or in the tax decree, in my opinion, a mention must be made of the public debt, which is the problem of the problems and perhaps think that the pardon - let us call it what we want, done or not done, an intention that seems withdrawn - could not serve to affect the public debt together with other measures, which we will talk about during the budgetary law. In the field of taxation, as some colleagues have already said and as we said in the Committee on Finance, it seems to me that we have not made any simplification: we have continued to add rules, which have arrived until the last moment. There is a bit of everything, but it is quietly constitutional, like all the decrees-laws of history and of all governments. There is a bit of everything inside; there is no order; there is no idea of a single tax text or a reorder that really simplifies the lives of citizens. The pardon, in my opinion, is treated hypocritically, so much so that we do not even use the word "condon" because we do not have the courage. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is probably a matter of state reasoning within the majority and the few things that were true pardon were removed in extremis. On 17 July, when I spoke in this House, I said that, in my opinion, for forgiveness, hypocrisy can be abandoned and all moral remorse removed if it is aimed at investment. If, instead, the pardon corresponds to the said "Few, cursed and immediately" and finances the current expenditure, it actually affects the treasure that exists, because the pardon is part of the mountain of bank deposits, in different forms, of the Italians, which is moved to finance the current expenditure, because the state budget has current expenses all legitimate, but some politically just and shareable and others less, like the famous income of citizenship. In my view, revenue expectations are overrated. There will not be, but the state, unlike a private enterprise or a local public agency, can safely say that it was waiting for a collection of millions or billions and then, if this is not there, everything goes into the public debt and we go back from where we left. But we are talking about the fight against evasion, which must be done through forgiveness: in this way the undeclared income and the formal irregularities emerge, and these are there. This, however, obeys a principle, which I do not want to believe is the thought of the majority, according to which the Italians are all evaders and, therefore, must be checked from morning to evening. We at Forza Italia obey another principle: the Italians are all good people; everything is allowed, except what is forbidden and not the opposite; if there is something wrong, there are the bodies responsible to control and if they could do so, leaving behind the formal irregularities, the small issues or the small evaders, maybe we wouldn't even need to think about the forgiveness. Everything is subject to control, everything is ANAC and we don't do public works because otherwise there is mafia and corruption. Applying such a principle is subversive, because it generates what has happened in Italy in recent years: the blocking of everything. Someone fears or talks about a tax warehouse of 850 billion euros that, in my opinion, do not exist. I cannot help but say that Bolkestein was not mentioned in this tax decree, which was a battlehorse of Forza Italia which had been shared by the House. On the BCC (Cooperative Credit Bank) I think the law No. 49 of 2016, as wrong is the amendment that has passed, which goes to say: we try to defend, as in law, the principle of mutuality, but the parent company, which is a SpA, does not obey mutuality. We will therefore assist at the end of these banks which are located in the countries of their historical wealth, compared to the Italian families. And then we want to talk about defending countries! [[Senator Perosino's microphone starts flashing.]] Should I interrupt, ma'am? I had seven minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u48	No, actually, I gave her another minute. As long as I don't tell you to stop, you can continue; but if you have only one minute, please come to an end.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u49	PEROSIN (FI-BP). I will conclude on the electronic invoice: I hope that the Privacy Supervisor will desist those that are fixed on this subject. Mr Damiani spoke about this last week, at the question time, and Minister Tria said that the electronic invoice, which will be applied, is being invented, because companies have difficulty in handling invoices. Where does he live? Invoice companies do this by day and by night, as long as they want, to billions; it is enough to have the material to make an invoice, that is, the sale of a product or a service. They're doing it quietly. I am physically opposed to the electronic invoice - and the same goes for the BCC - because, by virtue of derogations and exclusions, it has created another chaos. Here we confuse - as I have said before - the form with the substance: but do we think we will get two billions from the electronic invoice? And we're back at the break-in. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Now come to the conclusion, thank you, Senator. PEROSIN (FI-BP). These are notes we're going to resume. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u50	She's enlisted to speak Senator Accoto. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u51	Mr President, fellow senators and fellow senators, the tax decree, after various vicissitudes, is now before the House. Allow me to clarify and state the strengths of this measure, which contains important elements, aimed at restoring a relationship of trust between citizens and the State. Contrary to what the opposition expressed in an improper and instrumental way, in order to discredit the entire measure, any condoning purpose is excluded in it. The decree-law was designed in order to meet the needs of the citizens, today increasingly in difficulty, and represents the first step towards a finally friendly collection of taxpayers. A fiscal peace should be established between the administration and citizens, in order to remove the economic imbalance of the obligations assumed and to facilitate the termination of the debt by means of a balance and a cut-off of the amount due, in all those exceptional and involuntary situations of proven economic difficulty. In this regard, it is important to point out that Article 4 stipulates, in paragraph 1, that debts of residual amount up to 1,000 euros are automatically cancelled. This amount will be calculated on the date of entry into force of the Decree-Law and will be inclusive of capital, interest for late entry and sanctions, resulting from the individual loads entrusted to the collection agents from 1 January 2000 to 31 December 2010. We are talking mostly about self-employed workers, small businesses and individual citizens, not big evaders, as falsely praised by the opposition. Moreover, it must be pointed out that the whole of the first part of the measure is based on fiscal pacification. Specifically, Article 1 introduces the possibility of facilitating the establishment of the minutes, paying the tax at issue, with the discount of penalties and interest. Therefore, this decree reconstructs a relationship between tax and taxpayer, which, contrary to the past, will be based on mutual trust, compressing the times of definition of the minutes resulting from an external investigation activity, not yet merged into an act of taxation. At the same time, this act simplifies the management of relations with the financial administration. The concept of mutual trust is also central to Article 2, which introduces the possibility of facilitating the definition of calls for adversarial proceedings, notices of investigation and investigations with the accession of the Revenue Agency, so as to allow taxpayers to regularise their tax positions pending, but not yet defined, by paying exclusively taxes, without the application of the related sanctions and interests. With Article 3, the debtor will be able to benefit from the reduction of the penalties included in the charge and the interest of late payment, as in the two previous breakdowns, spreading them over a longer period of time and with interest reduced to 2%. We therefore create a new idea of tax, no longer oppressive, but a tax and a state that are finally on the side of the citizens. In the conversion of the decree-law, Article 6, which makes it possible to define in a facilitated manner the pending tax disputes, including in the cassation and subsequent referral, in which the Revenue Agency is a party, dealing with taxation acts, notices of investigation, measures of payment of penalties and any other act of taxation. Disputes may be settled by payment of half of the value of the dispute, in the event of the Agency's failure to deliver judgment at first instance, and one fifth of the value in the event of failure to deliver judgment at second instance. I will conclude, Mr President, by reminding my colleagues that the years of continuing economic crisis have affected thousands of craftsmen, small entrepreneurs and young professionals. We are talking about citizens who have fought against everything and everyone and who, in order to go ahead, pay their employees and do business, have sometimes contracted debts to the tax authorities. The political class is in a difficult position to respond to these people, who have shown us their difficulties, their fears and the need not to be abandoned by the State. They've asked us for help and we can't look away. The tax decree-law is a measure that allows to give back dignity to these people, which allows them to restart and look with hope to the future; it allows to give relief to thousands of families who have struggled against the crisis and who have not given up. It's time to go back together. The prerequisite for giving these citizens the opportunity to start over is a friendly tax, a tax that can be on their side, a tax that is neither tyrant nor oppressor, but that has at heart, alongside the collection of taxes, also the possibility of creating wealth and consumption and therefore contributing to the well-being and growth of the country. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u52	He's enlisted to speak Senator Saviane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u53	Mr President, Government, fellow senators, the decree-law we are debating contains important fiscal measures, which go in the direction of meeting those entrepreneurs who are burdened with the economic crisis and who are in difficulty respecting the payments of the debitory records. In the discussions in the Commission I have seen how, on the part of some of my colleagues, there is a view of taxpayers as subjects to be pursued with ever stricter rules, since the taxpayer will always and increasingly seek to evade and defraud the tax. I am convinced that most Italian taxpayers would have a different attitude towards a more correct and honest tax, in short, a close tax and understanding of the difficulties that can arise in the contributory life of each of us. In recent years there has been more and more clinging and complicating the complex of tax rules, achieving bad results, which speak to us in an unequivocal manner of civilly lost budgets due to the economic crisis, with taxpayers who then find themselves, due to various shootings and rules of indeducibility of costs, with a positive tax result, but being in a position to not be able to pay taxes; and all this not for their will, but for necessity. We are not talking about those people who have worked and produced income, but who find themselves among the customers the State or other public bodies that do not match their dues in the agreed terms. This situation, then, and this kind of relationship must be changed; this is the direction we want to take. The budgetary rigidity to which this Europe wants to nail Italy prevents us from immediately meeting the demands of Italian citizens, who, by rewarding the two forces to the Government, have shown a significant and clear desire for change that is reflected in this respect too. The tax decree in our examination insists on this direction. The decree-law also deals with the reform of the popular banks, perpetrated by previous governments, necessary to accept the petition of members of the populars who have been imposed a reform without being allowed to exercise the right of withdrawal. The measure we intend to adopt also addresses the reform of the rural coffers. A further reformist intervention contained in this decree-law is that relating to the electronic cigarette sector. We have managed to lower taxes for appliances that do not harm health and which will also benefit our health system. A smaller number of cigarette-related diseases mean less sick people in the health service. With the decree-law at our examination, then, we wanted to introduce a tax of 1.5% against the remittances abroad made by Italy to countries outside Europe, because it seems right that those who send abroad earned sums in Italy can contribute in a minimum part to the contribution and taxation of the country that helped him create this flow of resources. This decree-law does not address, however, only fiscal aspects, seemingly cold and far from the citizens. It provides clear answers to the needs of the territory and the family. Well then the baby bonus in favor of those who have or adopt a child, provision we wanted to provide a measure of contrast to the demographic decrease in Italy, thus giving an objective signal. Another important step is the establishment at the Ministry of Economy and Finance of a fund able to meet the needs arising from the calamitous events that took place in September and October last year. This fund, which has an initial budget of EUR 476 million for 2019 and EUR 50 million for 2020, is a clear address to the affected communities. So, after the so-called Genoa decree, here is another example of immediate attention that this Government has to the lands affected by catastrophic weather events, as unpredictable as unbearable, and to those citizens who have lost everything. We will not forget them. This decree is proof and confirmation. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u54	Senator La Pietra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to speak in this debate, unfortunately seeing a distracted and absent House during the general debate on a decree-law that will seriously affect the fate of our fellow citizens. Having said that, I would like to point out, as my previous colleagues in the Group have also done, some of the problems in the Decree-Law, but above all I would like to point out that there is no focus on the agriculture sector. There is not an article, there is not a paragraph that goes specifically to speak and try to facilitate the problems of our agricultural sector, a sector that, I remind all of us, is fundamental and a backbone of the national economy. National agricultural products of excellence are those that in the world carry on the brand of Made in Italy, are those that in the world make known our specialty and make known the voucher of Italian production. It is a world that in these days and in this period, however, is always under attack. I am referring to what will happen with the new European CAP, in which funding for the Italian agricultural world will be less than in the last seven years and above all I am referring to that method of redistributing these resources that will be in the member countries, which will penalise our country even more. This is not to mention the attacks that are also taking place at international level: I am referring, for example, to the World Health Organisation and the fact that on 13 December we are preparing to vote on a measure that will put our products of excellence among those harmful to health. In this context, we would have expected the Government to pay more attention to the problems of this sector. Brothers of Italy have tabled a number of amendments on the subject, in order to try precisely to meet the needs of farmers. We have tabled amendments to have a tax credit in agriculture for companies investing in new technology, for less land consumption, for less pollution and for less water consumption. We have tabled amendments for the facilitation of municipal taxes on agricultural enterprises, as well as facilitations for the purchase of agricultural land. All these amendments have been rejected, and we regret that, because they define the government's approach to agriculture. Last but not least, we have tabled an amendment concerning the suspension of milk quota fines for the year 2014-2015. This is an amendment of common sense, which adopted a motion, voted on in the Regional Council of Lombardy by a majority and with a single vote against, in which the Regional Council asked the Government to suspend these fines, which have already been allocated to the collection agency and thus put at risk the survival of many companies. It is called for to be suspended simply because there is a reasonable doubt that these fines are calculated on the wrong parameters. In fact, even according to the national bovine register 2014-2015 there were not enough dairy animals to produce that quantity of milk and therefore these fines are in fact to be verified. In conclusion, I would like above all to ask my friends and fellow Senators of the League: what will you say to your companies that produce milk and that risk closing, in Lombardy, where about 50% of the national milk is produced? What will you say to your regional advisers, who have asked for this suspension, who today, on the other hand, are rejecting it? Well, in all this we see a Government of change that has not actually changed any method, but has changed only the people who are in the seats to decide. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Mallegni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u56	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lannotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law on fiscal peace, which is not a tax pardon, contains many points that seek to reconcile taxpayers' citizens with a rapacious and vexatory tax, which has accumulated a tax warehouse of more than 800 billion euros of tax credits entrusted to the Revenue Agency, whose recovery action, on which many individuals profit, is equal to less than 50 billion euros. Compared to the original text, which has long been discussed in the Finance and Treasury Committee, many changes have also been made to the work of the opposition, which after the initial obstruction has chosen a more constructive position: I am thinking of the reduction of sanctions for those who sign blank cheques, that is that they do not contain the name and surname of the beneficiary and the so-called non-transferability clause, which had provoked numerous protests from the blameless citizens. There is also a change in the minimum fine for cheques under EUR 30,000, which is 10% of the value of the amount, as well as lower penalties for small cheques which, beyond the amount, ranged from EUR 3,000 to EUR 50,000. Tax forgiveness is cancelled. I repeat: it is deleted! It provided for a figure of up to EUR 100,000 to be recovered by means of the special supplementary declaration. In its place comes the sanatoria on formal errors, committed until 24 October 2018. Then there are other measures: for example, the one for the earthquake victims: the budget of up to 524.6 million euros, established at the Ministry of Economy and Finance to deal with the damage caused by the disasters that hit many areas of the country in September and October. There are other measures, for example, the derogation from the procedures for the investment advice of the single bank text for the purchase of shares of cooperative banks and ethical banks up to a maximum of one thousand euros, rising to 2,500 in the case of a minimum fee to become a member of more than one thousand euros. Then there is an anti- spread shield: Germany has protected its banks that do not fall into the bail in while here, on the other hand, there is anguish. Instead of cheering for Italy, you are cheering for the spread and for the generators of daily anxiety! [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] We love this country, not the spread. There are also other measures and one which is particularly concerned is the amendment extending the transformation of popular banks by one year after the decision of the Council of State, which has put the previous Government's harmful measure back to the European Court of Justice: the previous Government's harmful measure! [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments by Senators Beginini and Laus.]] This is what the Council of State, ladies and gentlemen, says: it has been decided to refer to the European Court the judgment on the whole reform, starting from the law operated by the Renzi Government, which provides for an asset threshold of eight billion beyond which a popular bank must become a SpA. The order also refers to the circular of the Bank of Italy which regulated the matter and, in particular, to the controversial aspect of the limitation of the refund of the right of withdrawal, which, according to the regulatory document, can also be reset by a transfer of the right. And see that those reasons of the Council of State are also a milestone of these vigilant authorities that are always on the side of the vigilantes, and are owned by the banks shareholders, because the circular of the Bank of Italy provides for the possibility of granting or denying reimbursement for the right of withdrawal. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Pizzol.]] Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am beginning to conclude by announcing that we have signed Senator De Bertoldi's agenda on cooperative credit banks, which commits the Government to safeguarding the value of banks operating on the territory, not on the basis of Frankfurt algorithms of the European Central Bank. Let me also reiterate that measures, which I would like to call simply wretched, wanted to throw us into the jaws of the far west of the market and globalization, according to the ideology of dictatorial neoliberalism, the sacred Moloch of globalizations. The globalization of poverty, corrupt parasitic ideology, imposed by the masters of the world [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Pizzol]] in order to delegate democratic functions to cleptocrats and oligarchs, with the domain of paper finance on the real economy and on the real life of men and women, which has devastated constitutional principles and values that we are committed to protecting. This is not a tax pardon: I repeat it for the last time! [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Fregolent and Pizzol. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u58	Senator Steger is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u59	Mr President, the aim of this measure was to build a more balanced relationship between citizens and taxation and to promote greater tax revenue. As it comes to this House, I fear that many of the measures contained in this document will not be effective. There has been limited intervention, in some cases of detail, which cannot be seen as a new season in the relationship between tax and citizens. In this decree-law there are, however, several measures concerning South Tyrol and Trentino. There is an appropriation of more than EUR 500 million for damage to the bad weather of the past few weeks. Our two provinces have been severely affected. Having allocated resources already with this measure is certainly a positive fact: it is for businesses, commercial activities, families and all those who, even in our Region, are experiencing complicated days. There is the rule concerning cooperative credit in the Autonomous Province of Bolzano, and I would like first of all to thank the President of the Bagnai Finance Commission and all the members of the Commission, majority and minority, who have listened to our ideas and who have accepted the demands of our territory, of which we have spoken. With the amendment approved in the Commission, the Raiffeisen, the cooperative credit in our Province, as an alternative to the establishment of the cooperative banking group, will be able to opt for an institutional protection system on the German model, i.e. a contractual agreement to ensure the liquidity and solvency of the banks involved in crisis management, through funds fed by the banks themselves. Our cooperative credit is a healthy system; our cooperative credit banks are solvent, so give them the opportunity not to submit to a SpA, so to open up to another banking philosophy, I think it is a fair attitude of the current majority. It is a model that has the advantage of guaranteeing the autonomy of the banks, of building a bond of responsibility with respect to the maintenance of the system and, above all, of maintaining that relationship with the territory that is the founding principle of cooperative credit, that characterizes it and distinguishes it from other banking forms. Finally, there is the rule on the safeguard clause. I would like to highlight this because of what happened with the Security Decree, when the amendment was even declared inadmissible in the Commission. This time the prerogatives of the special self-government have had the protection that is theirs; and it is good, because it should always happen this way. In the same way, more generally, there are measures that consolidate interventions already developed in the previous parliamentary term. I am thinking of scraping files and all the other interventions aimed at building a more balanced relationship with the tax authorities. I am thinking of intervention in favour of VAT consignments, on which already in the last parliamentary term there had been a first significant intervention, which with this decree-law comes out strengthened. It is good that the measures for families, especially young couples with children, have been confirmed. However, this measure must be assessed in the overall context of economic maneuvering. On several occasions, even in this House, our Group has expressed its concerns. We are not convinced of the idea of a new debt, the confrontation with Europe, but we are not convinced of the measures that will be financed. Citizenship income is a passive measure, which will not help people find a job. The reform of employment centres will not be enough. I have said this on other occasions: employment centres have difficulties in working even in other countries, such as Germany. I hope that they will work, but I have strong doubts that they will work in Italy, because the problem is not so much the encounter between supply and demand, if anything the fact that we must feed the supply of work. Work creates it by enterprises, not by decrees or employment centres. Public resources must be invested to create development, to reduce labour costs, to stimulate innovation, to improve productivity and competitiveness of businesses. So let us welcome the requests for remedial measures that Europe is also asking for. Above all, let us welcome the dialogue that is emerging, after the embarrassing season of the offenses to Europe and the isolationism of Italy. It would be a good thing if at least 3 billion were moved towards investment. It would be an act of responsibility, because we are in a very delicate passage: Bankitalia has calculated that, since the beginning of the legislature, interest on our debt has risen by 1.5 billion for this year, by 5 billion for 2019, by 9 billion for 2020. The increase in the spread - as the Minister of the Economy has admitted - will result in an increase in the cost of mortgages; moreover, the flop of Italian BTPs, with just 2 or 3 billion lent by savers to the state, tells us so much about the climate of fear and uncertainty that begins to snake. For this reason too, European sanctions on maneuvering must be avoided in any way and a firm focus must be placed on growth and, therefore, on trust. In conclusion, Mr President, for the productive fabric, for the professionals in the territories we represent, there are positive measures in the measure under discussion, but these are insufficient or ineffective if the shooting of the manoeuvre is not corrected. My hope is that dialogue with Europe will continue, resources will be shifted to development and growth. This is what Italy needs. [[Applause from Senators Ferrari and Grimani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u60	He's enlisted to speak Senator Iannone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately - as has happened very often so far - the title of the measure in question essentially betrays its content, because we are in the presence of an omnibus measure, in which there is a lack of a vision of real tax reform, which is what Italians really need, since we are the country where citizens pay more taxes to have a more enemy state. In this context, the mini-conson that is proposed is certainly not an opportunity to remedy even definitively existing tax discrimination. E-invoicing, moreover, is certainly not a tool to combat evasion, but it is the last misfortune for many small artisans and small entrepreneurs who already have enormous difficulties in carrying out their business and who would need tools that facilitate their profession. Despite these considerations, the commitment of the Brothers of Italy Group has been aimed at improving the measure under discussion. The proposals we have put forward in the Commission are all designed to help and offer corrective measures. We have not quite understood what we are going to do about some of the amendments. We hope that there will be a parliamentary space so that something less can emerge from this measure. In particular, amendments have been tabled to my signature aimed at helping our Municipalities, the institution closest to the citizens. These amendments are chosen from those suggested by the ANCI; they do not propose the possibility of new taxes, but at the same time help the municipalities to make their own accounts and budgets square - which they are already doing with great difficulty. All the initiatives that move from the center, from Rome, to the territory, and that can become services and answers for citizens, Brothers of Italy believes it is right to support. For this reason we hope that the contribution that comes from our Group can represent that good hand that gives the Italians an opportunity of relief from the absolutely insufficient measures of the decree-law in question. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u62	Senator Astorre is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u63	Mr President, with regard to the general position that the Democratic Party takes towards this tax decree-law, I believe that the minority report of the Senator of Alphonsus has been comprehensive, articulate, incisive and motivated point by point, for the work that has been done in the Commission. The Democratic Party judges the measure under consideration absolutely in discontinuity with the fight against the evasion carried out in the last legislature and which led to the recovery of about 20 billion euros. Therefore, it is absolutely unsatisfactory both the decree-law and the de facto omnibus formulation that has been found. In particular, I would like to focus on the subject of conventional and facilitated construction. The proposal for an amendment approved by the majority on the determination of the maximum price for the disposal of housing built in conventional and facilitated buildings addresses the problem, but only limited. Over the course of time, the discipline of conventional construction has undergone a continuous evolution through numerous legislative interventions. However, I believe that today there is a need for an organic and homogeneous modification of the reference legislation, considering that the current situation of the plans of zone realized under the facilitated construction regime needs urgent regulatory measures to resolve some criticalities of the system, to protect all the interested parties. In line with this approach, we have tabled an amendment which seeks to reaffirm the economic and social function which has inspired the legislator in the past in the field of construction which has been agreed and facilitated. The amendment in question marks the whole of the regulatory system in a decisive way, ensuring the primary good 'home' to categories of persons considered disadvantaged because it lacks the economic potential to enter the free real estate market. The aim of this proposal is to rationalise in a uniform and transparent way the processes of transformation from the right of area to property and to remove the constraints relating to merchantability and to the prices of disposal and lease. It is also encouraged the completion of the area plans, providing for the complete realization of the primary and secondary urbanization works. Finally, a regulation is introduced aimed at definitively resolving the issues arising between sellers and house buyers for the violation of the conventions regarding the rules on the maximum price of disposal, in compliance with constitutional principles and the rules of law. In particular, the amendment proposed by us provides for the possibility for the owners of the surface right to request its transformation into a right of ownership, obliging the municipalities to identify areas not subject to transformation and to respond to the requests of citizens within a certain period, beyond which the silence-consent triggers. A procedure is established for the determination of the venal value of the areas, characterized by certainty and objectivity, as it refers to the surveys of the Observatory of the real estate market. Another aspect addressed by our proposal concerns equal legal treatment between the holders of conventions, with regard to the full right of ownership, and those who have obtained the same full ownership as a result of the transformation of the surface right, through the forfeiture of all the alternate constraints of twenty years from the date of conclusion of the original convention. Therefore, the constraints removed are not only those relating to the maximum selling price, as is the case with the amendment approved by the Commission and proposed by the majority. Finally, all the fees acquired by the municipalities following the sale of the areas following the transformation will be destined to the completion of all the works of primary and secondary urbanization of the plans of zone, also with a view to restoring the principles of legality and security for the citizens. I call on my colleagues in the majority to take into account the adoption of that organic amending proposal, through which it will be possible to draw a line of discontinuity with past experience which will enable many of the current problems to be resolved and to relaunch the public housing sector as a response to the law and the needs of citizens' homes. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u64	She's registered to speak Senator Rivolta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u65	Mr President, first of all, I would like to stress one aspect that many Members have wanted to stigmatise, namely the fact that many issues outside the tax area have been included in this decree-law, but it seems to me that this has happened on a regular basis in all previous legislation. Also this time, in fact, other measures that - fortunately - intervene on some emergencies have been included in the decree-law. So, let there be a fund of 500 million euros for 2019 alone and another 50 million euros for the following year, aimed in particular at the sector of public housing expenditure, including maintenance and safety, as well as the maintenance of the road network and the hydrogeological failure in the affected areas, in recent September and October, by natural disasters that have impressed everyone. I think that each of us has in our eyes the frames of what happened in Veneto or Liguria. It is an urgency and it has been inserted in the decree-law a norm with which, fortunately, we tried to give you an answer in the shortest possible time: so please come. Not only that: a measure has been proposed that comes from the past and that the Government has decided to refinance. I am talking about the baby bonus, by virtue of which, also for 2019, a check is recognized for each child born in the period from 1 January to 31 December, increased by an additional 20 percent in the case of second, third or fourth child. A concept that has been set out in the government programme, i.e. support for the birth rate, is therefore reiterated. In a country - it is well known - as old as Italy, we must put on the field - and this is only the beginning - policies that not only enable young couples to decide to put on a family, but then be those that are able to raise their children and guarantee them a future. I only give a few facts, because the force of numbers is always powerful. The elderly population, over sixty-five years old, on 1 January 2018, counts 13,644,363 people and represents 22,55 percent of the total Italian population. The under 14 belt represents 13.35 percent, with 8.080.176 children. The divergence between 22,55 and 13,35 percent makes us say that the old age index of our country, that is the relationship between the elderly population, the over sixty-five, and the under fourteen population is 168 percent. This trend involves many other things: how many pensions will have to be paid, what are the groups that will have to work to pay pensions instead. It is a very important fact that all those proposals need to be put in place to ensure that the birth rate increases and that all policies that can help it are adopted, including the reconciliation of working time for women as well as policies to help the family. The measure is therefore a refinancing of a rule already introduced by the past governments; it is a small thing, but it is important. As a comasca, since I was born in that land, I would like to focus on two amendments. The first concerns the Municipality of Campione d'Italia, which has raised great concern throughout the area at the border with Switzerland: the Government has opted for the appointment of an extraordinary commissioner, in charge of assessing the existence of the conditions for the identification of a new legal entity for the management of the gambling house, which will have to be connected with the local authorities, territorial and non-Lombardy. Given the major occupational emergency, this will allow, also thanks to important tax reductions, to relaunch that very small part of Italy and attract investments. I also welcome the adoption of an amendment concerning the variant of Tremezzina, an important road on the western side of Lake Como, a wonderful area. For twenty years we have been trying to improve the way with the Tremezzina variant project, but there have been many problems. Therefore, an extension was voted together precisely to allow not to lose a state budget of 210 million euros, which are added to the 120 allocated by the Region in the Covenant for Lombardy. I assure you that it represents a much easier future not only for tourism, but also for all those who live in that area: for businesses, for families, for everyone. I therefore express great satisfaction. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u66	He's enlisted to speak Senator Di Nicola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u67	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, citizens who follow us through television and social channels, with the decree-law in our examination we take action to begin to solve some of the problems of our tax system. We come to the people and citizens who have been in difficulty with the tax system because of the devastating crisis that has dried up the most important resources of our country for more than a decade. We intervene on the criticalities of a tax system that has a pressure on citizens by now unsustainable because of the frightening levels of tax evasion, which does not find equal not only in Europe, but - I believe - in all developed countries of the West. We have a number of citizens who unfortunately continue to evade the social pact that is implied and enshrined in our Constitution. We must remind this House of this problem because Parliament will have to commit itself to it and to it very much in the coming months. With this decree-law we turn our attention to a country and to a production system exhausted also because of the constraints that derive from the obligations to serve a public debt that costs citizens every year the beauty of about 65 billion. Think: 65 billion euros a year of interest caused by dozens of years of economic policies that have served, most of the time, our ruling classes to squander valuable resources in the name of policies that tended to clientele, electoral and waste-based management. It is the economic policy that has united center-right and center-left governments and has splashed our public debt beyond the 2,000 billion, figures that you well know and that are known to the country, that they represent more than 130 percent of the gross domestic product. To the country, exhausted and worried, we come to meet the measures that have been listed this morning and ranging from the facilitated definition of the verbal processes of observation made to the taxpayers, to the facilitated definition of the acts of investigation, to the cancellation of the debitory records for the roles under the 1.000 euros dating back to the period 2000-2010. 11:57 a.m. (NICOLA follow-up). Then there is the simplified definition of the pending disputes, which provides for a more open dialogue with the citizens also to free up that immense mass of roles, equal to 850 billion taxes not collected that, because of the scandals of the collection agencies, private citizens, often mafias, and banks that have cheated, have made it impossible, at the end of a faraginous and difficult process of ascertaining and contesting the folders to the evadors, even to put their hands on the sure resources that an unjust and inefficient tax system, though at the end of even tens of years of work, had managed to define with respect to the tax evaders. There are other important issues on which we intervene that approach the fiscal issue, but that concern other priorities of our country; measures apparently of little importance - if you want - regarding the mass of our problems, such as having predicted the incompatibility between the role of President of Region and that of extraordinary Commissioner to the return plans, which often meant a management more attentive to the electoral interests of the presidents of Region than to the needs of efficiency of our health care. This measure is also rooting out a conflict of interest which - I would like to remind the Presidents of the Region in this House - has often meant having incompatible senators over the last ten years. In fact, it is still possible to elect senators as regional advisers and presidents for whom our Constitution provides for incompatibility. Announcement that we will intervene on the article of the Constitution that deals with the issue in order to make this incompatibility a strict and clear cause of ineligibility. Finally, I come to a fundamental issue that citizens have been waiting for decades for the very serious situation of backwardness in which they have been left behind. I am referring to the telecommunications system, which is crucial at the moment, which qualifies countries from the point of view of development equipment and offers investment opportunities. I am talking about the crucial issue of access to the network. In recent decades, commitments have been made in this House that have never found an answer in reality. A twenty years ago we witnessed the sale of the strategic sector of our country, the primary infrastructure of the telecommunications network, which had cost citizens a lot of money, at a vile price to private individuals who then plundered it. I am referring to the Telecom Italia affair. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Today, in this House, a Parliament that has betrayed, with respect to the protection of public and strategic infrastructures for the country, we offer the possibility of healing a scandal and mad management, bringing back to public ownership the telecommunications network, which will be crucial to guarantee to all citizens in the coming years that adequate and fast access to the Internet that modernity requires. These are the issues in the field and this we have done with the decree-law under consideration, with the primary intent to resolve the criticalities and delays of the tax system in order to bring relief to the citizens vexed by the tax, to find resources and to face - as I have already said - also other emergencies like that of the infrastructural net, that seismic and hydrogeological. And the decree finds resources to give the citizens what they are asking us to pay their taxes to the full every year. For this reason - let me say this - the criticisms of the opposition to the provision are incomprehensible, starting with those of the Democratic Party. These are measures that the citizens are asking of us and which, from my point of view, would have deserved greater attention from the Democratic Party. The decree-law raises an essential issue in perspective, because it mortgaged the future of our country and the younger generations. It is the last knot of the public debt. Since 1980, Italian citizens have paid about twice the public debt. We must intervene in order to find resources, to heal and remove from Italy this immense weight that - I repeat - mortgage the future of the new generations. And we can do this by expanding the economy: we try and have already tried, finding the resources to make the necessary investments, but we have to do it by going fishing in the magnum sea of tax evasion. We ask you to approve this decree-law: it is the first measure to solve the most pressing problems, because it is through the right tax that we can restore confidence to the citizens, but above all find the resources to finance the hope and development of our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Nisini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u68	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u69	Mr President, I give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u70	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Conzatti.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u71	Mr President, the Commission's objective - and we repeat this - is to create revenue and revenue. From this point of view, therefore, we agree with the will to nourish the country's growth with the true contrast to the evasion, which consists in the control and the contrast to the escape of those who are submerged and not, of course, in the torture of the emerging taxpayers, who, although they may be mistaken, declare and are traceable and traceable by the tax authorities. This is not the relationship we want to create revenue. We want the objective to be to recreate a virtuous relationship between tax and taxpayer, which therefore simplifies life at the backbone of the country, that is to say to entrepreneurs and professionals, and let them do what they are responsible for, namely to create goods, services and jobs. It is of no use to citizens' income if companies are prevented from creating jobs. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] The State, when introducing obligations on taxpayers, must first pose the problem of being compliant itself. If we introduce e-invoicing, it checks that the interchange network works and that there is the possibility of sending such invoice and broadband anywhere in the country. How can we ask taxpayers for obligations that should be borne by the State? That is not the right, but it is a civil state that we want. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] If electronic invoicing is introduced, it cannot even be claimed that the burden of storing all the documentation is at the expense of taxpayers, who have to buy the software without any tax credit. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] Are you kidding me? It is the State that must archive the documentation already in its possession and stop asking for any kind of investigation, at every step, of the taxpayers, who already have their difficulties to keep Italy afloat in a global and complicated market. We're sinking the country. We're not giving it the push to grow. The income of citizenship and the famous abolition of Fornero are only confirmation of the happy decline that the Government is dramatically impressing. This is a dead end, but it is possible to reverse the course: we are still in time to do it, do it. Even Tsipras told us last week, with a warning to Italy, mindful of the experience of Greece, he told us to: go back, negotiate, put the accounts back and protect the Italians. The objective of the tax decree - it would seem trivial to say - is to deal with tax matters. In this respect, we have absolutely not understood why it has become a pot pourri, an omnibus of absolutely important subjects. It has risked destabilizing the founding sectors of our country. We avoided the worst and watched over, so that strategic sectors, such as the 11 percent credit, such as cooperative credit, would not be dismantled by decree just a few days after the reform came into force. We pushed to find a solution to the litigation on the maximum price of sale triggered by the judgment n. 18135 of the Cassation to united sections. We fought as always for the beaches, for the sport and in particular for the amateurs. We prevented the highways from becoming hostage to the government's new nationalism. We have monitored and will ensure that the idea of a single network, which also has positive features, does not become a monopoly of information, which is very risky in a democratic and civil state. We will continue to monitor, because we want to bring Italy back to Europe; we want to bring Italy back to the top of productivity, good thinking and good future. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u72	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator D'Alfonso.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u73	Mr President, I also ask myself a question about the value and significance of the reply, when it is for the majority rapporteur to reply, when it is for the minority rapporteur to reply. And I am convinced that the reply is not a tail, thematically weakened, of the initially expressed part. The reply feeds on the points of view heard and is the last, extreme attempt to call to reasonableness and reflection on that topic. In this spirit I contribute to the reasonableness of this House, taking into account all the speeches that have been made. The tax system is protected from one of the main institutions of democracy that our Charter provides for, the submission to the referendum, because the tax matter - Norberto Bobbio would say - is a sacral matter; thanks to this matter we build up the constitution of our community. If this is - and this is - we must know that a series of interventions contained within the decree-law under consideration produces diseducation, produces and puts in place a cultural and moral cost of diseducation that we must bear in mind. I do not foresee an angelic democracy without mistakes; democracy within itself can give rise to mistakes. The point is that the dialogue, the contradictory, the listening, the saying and the listening must then give rise to the corrections. What is the problem - for example - with the cancellation of folders of up to 1,000 euros of that decade? You can unleash, at the citizen's disposal, the bet to wait for another removal operation. This is the point you owe yourself to and we must take charge of it. As well as firing scraping operations, without the previous scraping from an administrative point of view, has an infectious load with it. We must give rise to a tax and tax behaviour that is typical of the State and, not a lyophilization of the State or a hologram of the State. See that all scholars and politicians, even from parts that have now made their point of view felt, show that tax matters require more seriousness, less intermittentness, less chance, less improvisation; so much so that the legal order provides, at a certain point in the legislative exercise, the tax decree, in order to ensure that it has completeness and homogeneity of matter, avoiding that it becomes a wrong ark. And this decree-law runs the risk of being a wrong ark. I must congratulate a few, sometimes impossible to find, but nevertheless significant interlocutors in the Commission; few and sometimes impossible to find, because they are taken by a great deal of work. I must acknowledge the effort made by the Undersecretary at MEF Bitonci, who has tried several times to sew and sew a mad conduct of a coalition pulling like the donkey of Buridano, on the one hand and on the other side, running the risk of dying of water and even food, because there was no agreement on anything beyond the written text. Having said that, I appreciate the effort made on collaborative fulfillment (an amendment of the PD), which makes it possible to establish a reciprocity of fiscal collaborative loyalty: the state and the wealth-producing entrepreneur together. We asked for another amendment: the honest citizen who pays, and pays more, must be reimbursed within a certain time. There can be no understanding for those who do not pay, cunningly, and not, instead, willingness for those who have paid more. I would like to thank - and I shall conclude - for the "angelic" attention that has been paid to the amendment on the taxation of INAIL pensions. An error has been made, by those who did so in that period of time: to ensure that INAIL's income was made "fiscalizing" matter. The INAIL pension is a compensation and concerns those who have lost "shares" of health. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Rizzotti]] It can't be that you pay and mass tax. We have tabled an amendment and we have been careful. Senator Bitonci and also President Bagnai, many times rescued and helped with his side culture, have given us attention but, instead of the amendment approved, an agenda came into play by the force of the recommendation. In Europe, what is sometimes hated, the recommendation also produces rules; I hope - and I conclude - that the curvature of intelligence will lead to a recovery of regulatory rectilinear. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Vitali.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to pay attention to our work. The Budget Commission must meet to deliver its latest opinions. I propose that the House suspend until 3.30 p.m. We will resume with the Government's reply and proceed with the examination of the amendments. If there are no comments, I would do so. I therefore suspend the sitting until 3.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.15 p.m. and resumed at 3.32 p.m.) Colleagues, I inform you that the 5th Commission has not yet completed its work. The sitting will therefore be suspended again and resumed at 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u77	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I would like to condemn the way in which they are proceeding in our work. I appreciate that the Presidency has quickly taken note of the fact that we are not yet in a position to proceed because the Budget Commission has not completed its work. It certainly did not complete them in an orderly manner and, therefore, it must put the dossiers in order, which is leading us to come to this House with three texts in parallel and which would make it very difficult to guide us both in the evaluation and in the indication of votes that we all obviously hold. I would like to add - and I am speaking in particular for this reason - that at the last Conference of the Leaders we agreed on a specific way of working in this House. It is obvious that the fact that further amendments have come in which have required additional time to be subjugated and that the work of the Budget Commission has not yet been completed, with the consequent impossibility of starting to vote at 3.30 p.m., means that the Democratic Party Group considers itself free from any prior agreement, simply because of a matter of respect for the work and all those who sit in this House. [[Applause from the PD Group]] For us, therefore, the agreement to try to approve this measure by tonight does not apply; but, above all, it applies to the principle that each of the senators in this House must be placed under the real and substantial conditions of being able to evaluate all the amendments and sub-amendments. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u78	Senator Ferrari, the agreement was taken unanimously. The Presidency takes note of the change in its thinking but, as always, the Assembly is sovereign. I suspend the sitting until 4.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 3.35 p.m. and resumed at 4.30 p.m.) Colleagues, the Budget Commission has completed its work, but we are awaiting opinions. I therefore suspend the sitting until 5 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 16.31 a.m. and resumed at 17.03 a.m.) I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u79	Mr President, in the meantime I would like to thank President Bagnai, all the officials of the 6th Senate Commission, but I must say above all the Commissioners, the majority senators and the opposition, because, as this time, the text has been essentially improved - as has already been said - thanks to the careful work of the Commission and colleagues. I will now also give you a few specific examples in which the amending activity has led to a substantial improvement in the text. This decree-law and I also respond to certain comments from colleagues who have spoken in general debate - it is absolutely not a pardon; especially since the special supplementary declaration was also issued, the text has become a real tax peace. It was in fact in the original intent and ratio to seek a solution in what is an improved relationship with the taxpayer citizen. And that's why from the prelitigation, passing through the pending disputes and all the issues related to the break-ups (i.e. destruction bis and b) to reach the tax process, we have worked on the cancellation not of the tax but of the sanctions and interests, giving the possibility - which I consider legitimate - of a long installment (five years). This is the ratio on which the measure was built, which is extremely wide compared to the previous ones: one goes from the first verbal processes of observation, up to the last degree of the Cassation. The work carried out in the Commission was fundamental; for example, the amendment tabled by the Democratic Party on collaborative performance introduces a fundamental theme, which we will find in the legislative decree on the business crisis, relating to the tax transaction, i.e. the possibility to arrive at a definition of the relationship between the citizen, the company and the taxpayer through a verification of the actual assessment of the entity's capital and income situation, one of those obligations that already in other States is used with great success. That is why we will vote in favour of amendment 01.1 (text 2), originally tabled by the Democratic Party with Senator D'Alfonso as the first signatory, which extends this regime. Of course, in the original draft it was a total extension; we make a partial extension, in degrees, knowing that already in the legislative decree on the business crisis we have included the novelty on the transaction, which I think is extremely important. Another important novelty that improved the decree-law was certainly the sanatorium of formal irregularities, which completely replaced the special supplementary declaration. All the mistakes that are made in the presentation of the declaration and in the signature will be cured with the payment of a very small amount even for the previous years. We have then reintroduced the baby bonus, a measure that represents the continuation of what has been done by previous governments. Thanks to the coverage given by the sanatorium of formal irregularities, we have also included a substantial amount of EUR 525 million for the regions affected by the latest natural disasters. This is also an important measure for many regions and families that have suffered these disasters and have lost everything. Then there is the minimum penalty of 10% on non-transferable cheques and other things that can be considered minor, such as the lottery to finance philanthropic projects. Finally, as I anticipated, the theme that I consider to be fundamental, because "empty-Cassazione": the possibility of closing outstanding disputes with a discount. Paying for the presentation a 10 percent and, subsequently, the first degree of judgment, with the taxpayer's victory, paying only 40 percent you can close the tax litigation; in the second degree, with the payment of 15 percent with the payment of only 5 percent in the case of double compliant (which means victory in first and second degree). We have thought of a rule that gives a hand and lightens the litigation, which is very broad: think that more than 50 percent of the litigation stops in cassation. This was the ratio that led us to define the decree-law. Of course, I would like to thank the President and the officials who supported us, but also the majority and the opposition, who have found the solutions to substantially improve this text. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups and Senator D'Alfonso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u80	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u81	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 01.1 (text 2) and 1.32. I am against the remaining amendments. I also propose that the agendas be accepted as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u82	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u83	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 01.1 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u86	COMINANCES (PD). Mr President, Amendment 01.1 (text 2) seeks to give a little more substance, and perhaps also of soul, to the measure, giving a precise direction on what should be the approach to the relationship between taxpayers and tax and in some way represents a small revolution in these relations. The collaborative fulfillment, in fact, is based on the principle of trust and mutual respect between enterprise and tax, with a tax that sees and controls where there may be problems, but also with a company that sees, suggests and asks the tax authorities, in a preventive manner and with certain times on the hairs, how to be better oriented. This does not represent any kind of regalia, benefit or discount of any kind, but a relationship of mutual trust with a simplification of tax obligations. The taxpayer that adheres to the collaborative fulfillment must to some extent have a regime that allows him to analyse, control and verify all his tax deadlines and can be extended to all those who have the ability to simplify the relationship with the national tax. The aim of membership of this tax system is to facilitate constant and preventive interlocation between taxpayers and the Revenue Agency and is to define in advance, on the basis of facts, tax obligations in relation to the taxpayer. For these reasons we believe that amendment 01.1 (text 2) can give more substance to the tax decree that should go to our judgement to change positively the relationship between the taxpayer and the tax. I would also like to point out that Amendment 012 deals with the time allowed to taxpayers themselves to recover any sums paid in excess. The decree-law, as packaged by the Government, is characterized to be a measure that favors the recovery of the delays, paying limited sanctions and putting himself a bit' shelter from sanctions that are certainly onerous. But at a time when the state allows a taxpayer to have benefits on late payments or fines and gives the opportunity to recover something on sanctioned evasion, we believe it is correct to allow those taxpayers who, on the other hand, have paid more and in due time to request fair reimbursement in a period of time equal to that which is allowed by those who have escaped to be able to benefit from what the decree provides. Therefore, the request is to extend to five years, to sixty months the chances of recovery of what has been paid the most. With these two amendments, which in fact constitute two pre-articles of the article of the decree itself, we want to give a better characterization to this tax decree that goes in the direction of promoting the relationship between the taxpayer and the tax, on the one hand, with the collaborative fulfillment and, on the other hand, with the extension of the terms in order to be able to claim reimbursement where it has paid more. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u87	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 01.1 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 01.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 01.2 tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Damiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.6 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 1.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.7 tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1.8 tabled by Senator De Bertoldi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.9, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.9, tabled by Senator Sciascia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.10 tabled by Senator Sciascia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.12 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to amendment 1.13, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.13, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.14, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.15 tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.16, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,17, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u90	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, we have approached the tax decree-law with a different view from what might have seemed at the beginning, that is, we have tried, in every passage, to distinguish those who, in our opinion, have no right to participate in this sanatoria and in this pardon from those who, in principle, could have participated in it. Amendment 1,17 goes in the direction of distinguishing the evader hardened from the rest of the world. Who's the hardened evador? He is the one who intends to participate in this sanatoria even though he has participated in other tax allowances in the past, for example. He is the one who intends to participate in this sanatoria having never filed tax returns in the past. He is the one who, in the past or now, intends to heal his position after having escaped at least half of his share capital or more than half of the income he would like to heal. This gentleman, who has already participated in pardons in the past, this gentleman, who has demonstrated a pervicacious and continuous evasive will, in our view should not have the right to participate in anything else, because he participates actively and consciously in depressing the coffers and the state treasury. This gentleman is repeative. Therefore, with our amendment, we call for it to be excluded from this sanatoria, so that there is a clear signal from the State and the Treasury towards it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u91	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,17, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,18, tabled by Senator Steger and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,19, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.19, tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.20, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.20, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.21, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.21, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.22, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.23, tabled by Senator Sciascia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.26 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to amendment 1,28, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,28, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.25, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,27, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.29, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.30, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.30, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.31, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.31, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.32, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.33, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.34, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.34, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.35, which is identical to amendment 1.36, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.35, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators, identical to amendment 1.36, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,37, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.39 tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.40, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would ask the rapporteur if he would insist on voting on the G1.1 agenda. Mr Perilli (M5S). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The G1.1 agenda was therefore adopted as a recommendation. I would ask the presenter if he would insist on the vote on the agenda for Mr G 1,200. Mr Ferrari (PD). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The G1200 agenda was therefore adopted as a recommendation. We move on to amendment 1.0.1 (text 2) on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.1 (text 2), tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u92	Mr President, the opinion is in favour of Amendments 2.23 (text 3) and 2.28. The opinion on the remaining amendments is opposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u93	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Secondary Education Camillo d'Errico in Palazzo San Gervasio, in the province of Potenza, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u94	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u95	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.3, tabled by Senator Sciascia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 2.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the MONTANI Constitution (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I shall withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendment 2.5 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 2.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by means of a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.6 tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.7, tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 2.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by means of a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.8 tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.9, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.9, tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 2.10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.10, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 2.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I shall withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We move on to amendment 2.12 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.12 tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.13 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.13 tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.14, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.14 tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 2.15 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.15 tabled by Senator Damiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,17. MONTANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I withdraw the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Let us move on to Amendment 2.16, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.16 tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.18, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.19, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.19 tabled by Senator Sciascia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.20, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.20, tabled by Senator Sciascia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 2.21 (text 2) on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.21 (text 2), tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 2.22, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.22, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.23 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.24 has been withdrawn. We move on to Amendment 2.26 (text 2) on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.26 (text 2), tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.25, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.25, tabled by Senator Sciascia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.27, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.27, tabled by Senator Damiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 2.28, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.29, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.29, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.30, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.30, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.31, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.31, tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.32 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 2.33, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.33, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.36. Floridia (M5S). Mr President, I withdraw the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.34, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,37, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.35, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.39, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.39, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.38, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,38, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.40, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 2.41, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.41, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 2.42, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.42, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.43, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.44, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.44, tabled by Senator Steger and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. MONTANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I withdraw the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 2.0.2, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators, until the words "December 2017." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 2.0.3 and 2.0.4. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2.0.5, tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators, up to the words "accessories" if any. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.0.6. are therefore excluded. Let us turn to amendment 2.0,300, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0,300, tabled by Senator Damiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.0.301, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.301, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which are described and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give an opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u96	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 3.17 (text 2), 3.100, 3.1000 and 3.32 (text 2). The remaining amendments were rejected.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u97	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u98	Let us move on to Amendment 3.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.2 tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.3, tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators, until the words "December 2017." The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 3.4 to 3.9 are therefore not included. Let us move on to Amendment 3.10 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.10 tabled by Senator Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.17 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.11 and 3.16 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to amendment 3.13, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.13, tabled by Senator Sciascia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 3.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u101	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, the principle of the Article does not see us against it, because in fact it is about the break-up ter and in the past, as is well known, we have taken similar steps. However, if the principle does not see us against it, it must be said that we are faced with a very benevolent and favourable break-up for the taxpayer. Amendment 3.12 therefore calls for the exclusion of those who in the past have asked to participate in the scrapping process, but who have not improved the procedure by healing the debts they had asked for to be healed. We call for these types of taxpayers to be excluded for two fundamental reasons, not out of aversion to these taxpayers. In the first place, this provision creates a real disparity of treatment with those who have regularized themselves with the previous dismantlings, because the one who has not done so now has a greater facilitation than those who had asked to participate in the same period, since they are offered a much more facilitated possibility. The second principle that we want to protect is to prevent the state, in its tax administration, from always questioning the choices made in the past with new rules, which, moreover, affect situations in its own right, such as those I have described. For these two reasons, we ask that the disposal referred to in Article 3 should not involve those who in the past, even though they had requested it, have not healed the debts they had asked to heal. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u102	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.12, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u103	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Secondary Education "Fortunato Bruno" in Corigliano Calabro, in the province of Cosenza, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u104	Let us move on to Amendment 3.14, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.14 tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators, up to the words "Early Credits." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 3.15 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 3,18, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 3.18, tabled by Senator Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.19 tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.20 tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators, up to the word "venti". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 3.21 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 3.22, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.22, tabled by Senator Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.23, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 3.24, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 3.24, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators, up to the words "paragraph 9". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 3.25 are therefore not included. Let us move on to amendment 3.26, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.26, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3,27, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,27 tabled by Senator Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 3.28, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,28 tabled by Senator Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3,100/1, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,100, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.29, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.30 tabled by Senator Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 3.31, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.31, tabled by Senator Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3 1000 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 3.32 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.34, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.34, tabled by Senator Marsilio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 335.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u107	Marsilio (FdI). Mr President, the reason for this amendment lies in the fact that administrative sanctions in the field of employment are so disproportionate to the possible illegalities in which the employer may incur in the management of relations with employees which result in a vexation of the legal directors of companies, even if they have ceased or failed, that they cannot correspond to what is due, with obvious damage to the administrator who personally responds to his or her assets. A striking example that everyone remembers is what happened to a baker in the Province of Naples, who took his life for having received a report from the labour inspectorate to which he could not comply for the reasons I have just explained. I therefore call on the House to approve this amendment, which does not impose any burden, which has the power to prevent the Commission from taking the budget and which serves to extend the provisions already contained in the Decree-Law to work relations for bankrupt companies, which are now excluded and have no chance of resolving the problems arising in this situation.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u108	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.35, tabled by Senator Marsilio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.36, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.36, tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.37, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.37, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3,200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I call for a simultaneous vote by ballot of the first part of Amendment 3,200, tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators, up to the words "December 2018." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 3.38 are therefore not included. Let us move on to amendment 3.39, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.39, tabled by Senators De Siano and Carbone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 3.40, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.40, tabled by Senator Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 3.41, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.41, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.42, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.43, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.43, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 3.44, which is identical to Amendment 3.45, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.44, tabled by Senator De Bertoldi, identical to Amendment 3.45, tabled by Senator La Pietra. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.0.5 (text 2). MONTANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I shall withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.0.2, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators, identical to amendments 3.0.3, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators, and 3.0.4, tabled by Senators Iannone and De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.0.6 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u111	PICHETTO FRATIN (FI-BP). Mr President, Amendment 3.0.6 provides for the possibility of reopening the time limits provided for in Legislative Decree No 118 of 23 June 2011, for local authorities, following the cancellation of the provisions of this Article and therefore the possibility of carrying out a punctual re-assessment of residues at 31 December 2018. Instead of bringing these residues into an immediate deficit, it is envisaged to allocate this deficit in the manner provided for in the aforementioned legislative decree, with a possible multi-annual coating. It has no relevance in terms of financial transfer, but in terms of the management of any deficit; indeed, in the certainty that an entry could be placed and not fully covered by the post provided for previously by Legislative Decree No 118. That is why we have called on the Government with this proposal, which we will naturally vote in favour of.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u112	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.0.6, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators, up to the words "n." 118,............................................................................................................ (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 3.0,300, 3.0,301 and 3.0,302 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u113	Mr President, I am against all the amendments. I am in favour of adopting the G4.1 agenda as a recommendation. On Amendment 4.0.1 I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u114	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u115	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.2, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.3, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.4, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 4.5, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators, until the words 'own competence'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 4.6 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 4.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.7, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.8, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.9.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u116	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u118	Mr Grimani (PD). Mr President, we want to pay particular attention to Amendment 4.9, which concerns the possibility of excluding the taxes of the regions, provinces and municipalities from the treatment. Indeed, as has also been pointed out in the analysis in the Commission, there is the possibility that the removal of the loads pending from 1 January 2000 to 31 December 2010, up to EUR 1,000, will have a significant weight in the budgets of the municipalities. This discussion was the subject of discussion in the Commission, including through the hearing of the ANCI and the evaluations that came to the Commission by the Court of Auditors. In particular, this body has focused its attention on reimbursements relating to the costs of the collection procedures which the municipalities have put in place. These expenses shall not be reimbursed and shall be borne by the institutions. This could create imbalances if institutions did not provide funds to meet these costs. It is necessary, then, to consider the weight that this excerpt could have on the budget, in two respects, that have been put to our attention by the National Association of Municipalities, through the intervention in the Commission of Mayor Nogarin, therefore through a contribution not of part but entirely institutional. There are two things that have been put to the Commission's attention and that it is right for this House to analyse today. There are two problems: the first is of a legal nature, because the law intervenes directly on the credits of local authorities, without providing for direct compensation. Among other things, these are credits which could still be included in the budgets of the municipalities because they are considered payable. There is, then, a financial aspect, because this deletion estimates a possible loss in the budgets of the municipalities for figures ranging from EUR 3 billion to EUR 5 billion. It is true, and I am going to conclude, that in 2015, through Legislative Decree No 118, the extraordinary re-assessment of residues and therefore many municipalities, almost all, ordered their own budgets and removed from them the credits defined as inexpensible. However, in the municipalities there have also been dated credits, i.e. due for the period 2000-2010, which could lead to a deterioration in the balance sheet. This amendment should therefore be seen from the perspective, which was then the one proposed to the Commission by the ANCI to ensure that the impact on budgets could be reduced, the constitutional autonomy of local authorities and fairness among taxpayers. Our proposal sought above all to give these elements a central focus.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u119	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.9, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Floridia (M5S). Mr President, I withdraw the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Are the authors in favour of voting on the G4.1 agenda? BERNINI (FI-BP). No, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The G4.1 agenda was therefore adopted as a recommendation. Let us move on to amendment 4.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u122	CONZACTS (FI-BP). Mr President, Amendment 4.0.1 is particularly important to us. In fact, after many proclamations that have seen the government want to help those who are more in difficulty and, instead, as a result of the decree-law to our examination help only those who have eluded, those who have not declared, it is very dear to us to say that perhaps the dismantling of roles should have been extended to taxpayers who are in serious economic difficulty, providing a greater discount also on the tax and the cancellation of interests and sanctions. Not only that, the scraping article does not take into account the matching of situations between scraping one and scraping two, creating differentiations and disparities between taxpayers that are really not acceptable in a civil state system like ours. In terms of connection, it is not even clear why only the roles entered until 31 December 2017 and not until the entry into force of the decree-law are taken into account. They were very much awaited by all our citizens that the government did not listen to. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u123	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.1, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u124	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment 5.7. I am against the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u125	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u126	Let us move on to Amendment 5.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.1, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.2, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 5.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.3, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 5.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.4 tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.5, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.6 tabled by Senator Siclari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.7 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.8, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u127	Mr President, I support Amendments 6.9 (text 3), 6100, 6.25 and 6.30. I am against all the other amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u128	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u129	Let us move on to Amendment 6.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u130	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u132	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, Amendment 6.1 deals with Article 6, which states in fact a discount for first and second-degree tax litigation. As far as first instance tax litigation is concerned, it is possible to overcome the dispute where there has been succumbing to the recognition of a financial consistency which refers to the due of the dispute. Similarly, there is such an assessment where there has been succumbing to the second degree. What is the limit of this rule for which we call for its abolition? It intervenes on the manifestation of the problem and not on the cause of the problem. We in the Commission, where we have not done a job - as I said again this morning in two circumstances - of furnishing or embellishment, have suggested working on the causes which create an excessive number and financial consistency of first and second-degree tax litigation. We have heard from the representatives of the tax judiciary questions related to the number of professional competences referred to in the tax judiciary, the technological equipment of the tax commissions of first and second degree and then we have also measured the difficulty of the seat, which technically I can define as third degree, which is the Cassation. But the anomaly of the anomalies is that we, in the MEF budget statements, find a reduction in the financial envelope precisely for the operation of the tax commissions. You cannot take away the resources from tax commissions, detect their ineffectiveness and inefficiency and then introduce a rule, at the time of the tax decree-law, that produces discounts. It is an attitude from Gian Burrasca, because you do not work in a way to enhance the physiology, you generate the mechanism that produces the pathology and then you chase the problem of the organization with extraordinary norms. For this reason we say: let us override, overcome, avoid Article 6 and work to strengthen the capacity of the Italian tax system, because it is not a hundred or a thousand cases, but we exceed the hundreds of thousands of cases, as are the lawyers and accountants present who deal with this. There is also the genuineness of the opinion that we have acquired from the associations felt. For these reasons, I hope that this House will go beyond the sadness of Article 6, to work on a legal framework that will make the tax system work. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u133	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.1, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 6.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u134	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u136	VITALI (FI-BP). Mr President, I would urge the government, especially the green side of the government, to reflect on this amendment. In fact, it is nothing more than the translation of a promise made by the center-right in the electoral campaign. We had promised tax peace not to favor the smart neighborhood, but to ensure a tax system that could actually start the flat tax, which we lost track of. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In fact, the flat tax included in this measure is the one that already paid hundreds of thousands of taxpayers, so it is a political fiction. This amendment, which puts an end to a dispute of 21 million cases that will bring almost nothing into the state's coffers, a dispute that amounts to EUR 100 billion, could cause the state's coffers to get something like EUR 15-20 billion. And then the flat tax could be implemented! I address the friends of the League: you have swallowed the income of citizenship, which is 10 billion unproductive spending, only to allow your government allies to make an electoral slogan. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] And then a little resistance, a step of dignity and pride: vote on this amendment and fall back into the seed of the center-right, what you have supported. These are the promises that you have signed in the election campaign and that you have signed with all the center-right. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u137	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.2, tabled by Senators Vitali and Conzatti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.3, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 6.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 6.4, tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators, up to the words 'eratial tributes', in particular. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder and amendments 6.5 and 6.6. Let us move on to Amendment 6.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.7, tabled by Senator Sciascia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 6.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 6.8, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 6.9 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 6.11, 6.12 (text 2), 6.14, 6.15, 6.16 and 6.17 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.10, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.13, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u138	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u140	CONZACTS (FI-BP). Mr President, I am speaking to stigmatize the Commission's modus operandi. Very often - as in this case - amendments proposed by the Forza Italia Group and also by other groups have been taken into account not as a political proposal, but on the substance, to make them their own by the majority. We certainly do not mind giving good suggestions and improving the measure under consideration, but it is a political trap that we want to stigmatize. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u141	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.13, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,100/1, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 6,100, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.18, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.18, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 6.19, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.19 tabled by Senator Sciascia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 6.20 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.21, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.22, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.22, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.23, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u142	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u144	DAMIANI (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to speak on Article 6, on which we expected the Government to find more financial resources. In fact, if we want to talk about fiscal peace with our taxpayers, we need to find more resources. This government, however, has not done so and has not even tried. We also want to highlight the attitude of a political force of the majority which has raided many of our ideas and proposals, making them their own and including them with their own amendments. Thus, from this point of view, even politically incorrect behavior. With regard to the amendment, in particular, we believe that it really is a proposal of common sense: those who today have claims against the Treasury want to be given the opportunity to compensate for these claims through tax facilitation. The intention with this amendment is to put an end to the difficult situation in which our entrepreneurs, who have credits and then fail, alas, to compensate them so many times today. Instead of excluding this rule, we want to include it in the measure through this amendment. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u145	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.23, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.24, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 6.25, tabled by the Commission. The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.26, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.27, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.28, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.29, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.29, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 6.30, tabled by the Commission. The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.32, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.32, tabled by Senator Steger and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u146	Mr President, I rise to explain Amendment 7.3, tabled by myself and my colleague, Mr Pichetto Fratin. I would like to ask the House's attention to this proposal before colleagues speak as the rapporteur and the representative of the Government, who gave an opinion against it in the Commission. The theme of amateur sport should not have political affiliation. We know the path of this measure: it had been baptized as fiscal peace - I speak of the decree-law - that it should have calmed the climate between the taxpayer and the treasury. It was presented with the possibility of taxpayers who had not been found to be able to regularise their position with a supplementary complaint: even a ceiling of EUR 100,000 had been set. In the course of the work, then, the Government and the majority changed their minds, limiting access to the measures of which it would have been possible to benefit only for those who had ongoing investigations, with the forecast therefore of a regularization only for subjects who had disputes with the tax authorities to verify their eventual evasion. On the other hand, this possibility was not provided for by the persons who had submitted the report of income and had not been challenged. Therefore, he looked only at the pathological aspect and not at the possibility of regularising those who actually had a serene fiscal situation not affected by the investigation. It was a choice; we took note of it, but this choice naturally had repercussions on the process of the measure because, as for private taxpayers and legal entities, this possibility has also been denied to amateur sports clubs. We are talking about a world that is born on the basis of volunteering. We are talking about a world that has, up to now, had a logic of tax rules completely articulated and contradictory to each other. On the contentious issues, I would just like to make a few small points to tell my colleagues how the tax legislation on amateur companies has been somewhat controversial and somewhat messed up over time. For example, officials of the Revenue Agency and the Finance Guard's military have often given the most disparate interpretations to the laws, which have been extremely complex. For example, the Revenue Agency, with circular 9/E of 24 April 2013, considered it appropriate to intervene to mitigate the heavy positions of its offices and the Finance Guard itself. In fact, he realized the countless disputes that arose as a result of the fact that many advertising revenues were sponsored, which enjoyed, the latter, for the purposes of the flat-rate deduction, of that of 50% against that of the 10 of the proceeds of sponsorship, the same Agency proposed the rule that provides for the deduction of 50% of the proceeds. What do I mean, colleagues? This is a ground where there has been no clarity of the legislator and there has been no clarity, even interpretative, by the Revenue Agency and by the founders. Which, therefore, has created moments of insecurity on the part of the leaders of amateur companies themselves. It will be said, on the part of some, that the pardon (let's call it this, because this word has been cleared, because the tax decree contains - let's say so too - the pardon) is diseducational because, basically, it helps to escape: at the moment when there is the pardon, the previous is cured in a flat-rate way and, therefore, we can hope for a future pardon and we continue to escape. But do we want to apply this principle to the leaders of amateur societies, who operate only thanks to their good will, for a primary interest, which is to educate our young people, not only to sport, but also to civic education, respect for institutions and the health of competing? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Shall we interrogate? I want to tell my colleagues, and I also want to say this to the Government and the majority, that this is not an exception here, but it is a matter of giving a signal to all those leaders who carry out their activities with a great spirit of self-denial and courage. We have witnessed, over the past few weeks, episodes of violence and aggression by some uncivilized against players and referees. And we've seen executives put their faces on to try to avoid such incidents. They really do so in a spirit of service, because they have everything to lose and nothing to gain. They're doing it because they believe it. Will we then give this signal of serenity, by approving this amendment which allows - and I shall conclude, Mr President - all those amateur associations registered with the CONI, which have not been investigated, which have no checks, which are in order, to be able to definitively heal their positions with an additional payment of 20% of IRES and IRAP? Shall we give this signal? I do not believe that we will commit a wrong gesture, Mr President and colleagues, but we would give the opportunity to many young amateurs and many leaders, who carry out their activities with a great spirit of sacrifice, to move forward, and to promote many young people, men and women, who have brought the flag of our homeland high, winning gold medals at the Olympics and World Championships, honoring our country. In fact, it is from the amateur world that the best of our country has come, not from the professional one. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u147	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u148	Mr President, the favourable opinion on Amendment 7,1000. I am against the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u149	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u150	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.1, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7,1000/1, tabled by Senator Pichetto Fratin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7,1000 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 7.2 to 7.6 are therefore not included. Let us move on to Amendment 7.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u151	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u153	SICLARI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, almost all Italian companies are small and medium-sized enterprises. Each company, outside this Palace, expected an answer from this Government, which was born of two political forces and which promised immediately to give answers to the country, why two different forces, with two completely different programs, got together. Today, as citizens before and as politicians, we expected a response to our businesses, which have been suffering the crisis for several years now. Of course, we did not expect a real tax reform, a real flat tax, as conceived by the center-right program, but at least a tax reduction. This has not happened, it does not happen and perhaps it will not happen, but at least we hoped for a real tax peace. I would ask Members to pay attention to what I propose in Amendment 7.7, which I would like to make in detail: if it is true that we want to make a real tax peace, we must absolutely remove sanctions and interests and not consider them in the calculation, because otherwise it is not a real tax peace. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] At least a 5% reduction is needed, otherwise there would be no reason to give up litigation. We therefore call for the removal of sanctions and interests in order to meet as much as possible 99.9% of small and medium-sized enterprises, most of which today have some difficulty in paying taxes and also in meeting tax peace. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u154	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 7.7 tabled by Senator Siclari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.8, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 7.9 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u155	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u157	TEXTOR (FI-BP). Mr President, this amendment takes account of the difficulties that the gangs are facing as a result of the reform of the third sector. We spoke earlier about how important it is to invest in our young people for sports activities. Well, I believe that cultural activities, those that give our young people the opportunity to express themselves freely and to make social life, should be supported. Amendment 7.9 goes in the direction of helping gangs survive, given the many tax rules that exist. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u158	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 7.9 tabled by Senators Testor and Giro, until the words "Register Coni" are recorded. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 7,300 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 8 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u159	Mr President, I am in favour of amendment 8.9 and against the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u160	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u161	Let us move on to Amendment 8.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 8.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, until the words "the article." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 8.2 to 8.7. are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 8.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u162	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u164	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, we shall vote in favour of amendment 8.8, because we believe that it can remedy one of the most striking injustices contained in this decree-law. The producers of so-called electronic cigarettes owe the State 177 million euros of taxes and the fact that they must have been confirmed by a judgment of the TAR and a subsequent intervention of the Constitutional Court. Instead, the article states that these companies, instead of paying their dues to the State, will have condoned it. We continue to say that there are no condones, but they will have condoned it, because I do not know what it means to say that companies that owe 177 million to the State can solve their problem by paying 5% of their due: to me it seems a pardon and I also think that those who claim that with the decree-law in question the State presents itself as a friendly State, but of these subjects and not of the citizens, who would perhaps benefit from the funds due to the State. I therefore believe that an injustice, a real pardon, a real sanatoria is being done. In the newspapers this morning we also learned that these same companies made (absolutely clear, for goodness sake) significant donations to one of the forces that make up the majority of government, that is to say to the League: in the newspapers we talk about 75,000 euros, given as a donation to the League during the election campaign. Well, if we were the ally of the League, if we were the 5 Stars, we would say that we are facing a vote of exchange, a traffic of influences. We do not say this; we simply say that we are faced with a pardon, a sanatorium, a bad page that pays the citizens, in which this Government presents itself as a friend of some and certainly not as a friend of the people. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u165	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u167	Marsilio (FdI). Mr President, I am speaking for a brief reply, because it is curious to listen to those who killed the electronic cigarette market in Italy with an absurd taxation, which hit innovative companies that had created a hugely expanding market a few years ago. The state of fiscal oppression that PD has established in Italy and that is defending with these interventions has practically brought to its knees an entire sector. We believe that it is right to proceed with a measure which will enable those companies and this sector to breathe and be free from a completely unjustified fiscal oppression. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u168	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.8, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 8.9 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.10 tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.11, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.12, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. MONTANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I shall withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us turn to amendment 8.0.300, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 8.0.300, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Pichetto Fratin, until the words "January 2019." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 8.0.301 and 8.0.302 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 9 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u169	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 9,10000 and 9,0.7 (text 2). I am opposed to the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u170	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. I would point out that Amendment 9.0.7 (text 2) should be deleted from point (b) because it is a refutation of the previous text. This part should therefore be removed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u171	I would ask the rapporteur to comment on the Government's observation that Amendment 9.0.7 (text 2) (b) of Article 9-a applies.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u172	Mr President, I welcome this observation and I am nevertheless in favour of the wording of point (b).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u173	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.1, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators, identical to amendment 9.2, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 910000/1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 910000/1, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 910000/2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u174	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u176	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, apart from the fact that the writing of amendment 910000 creates some interpretative doubts, in particular in dealing with paragraphs 1, 4 and 5, where it is not clear what the emergence of activities carried out abroad that you intend to regularise from the formal point of view is, we ask that we exclude from formal irregularities, in particular, value added tax. That being said, it is worth a different argument: with the rewording of Article 9 you introduce a new tax, why what taxpayer will not pay 100 euros in 2019 and 100 euros in 2020 to be calm from the point of view of course only formal irregularities? Who is that taxpayer who, even if he thinks he's okay, will not pay this new tax? And it is so true that it is a new tax, that the sum of what you plan to introit in 2019 and 2020 is double what you plan to introit with the sum of all the articles related to the decree: 1.3 billion only for this article, while about 600 million for the sum of all the articles. What a favor for formal irregularities! It is a real tax on all taxpayers: on the smart ones, which you reward on other occasions, and on the honest ones, which you oblige in particular to pay. Therefore, on the one hand you reward those who have not behaved well and on the other hand you require honests to pay this new tax to meet your needs, which are not to improve the contrast to tax evasion and avoidance, but to favor them with the other articles that are provided for in the decree-law. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u177	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 910000/2, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 910000/3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 910000/3, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 910000/4, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 910000/6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 910000/6, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 910000/10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 910000/10, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 910000/11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u178	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u180	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, with sub-amendment 910000/11 we propose to stabilize, for at least three years, the so-called baby bonus, otherwise families cannot rely on this little, almost symbolic, help that is given to them either. Families with children today receive much lower benefits from the tax than VAT that they pay more than other taxpayers on all the products they have to buy for children. We ask at least that this bonus, which is totally insufficient, but which is better than nothing, be planned for the next three years, otherwise it does not even theoretically have any power to increase the birth rate for next year. Let's give a little confidence to families: three years instead of one. I remember - for those who had some doubts at the moment - that the pregnancy lasts nine months, so let's at least make sure that couples can think about it again next year. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u181	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 910000/11, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 910000/12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 910000/12, tabled by Senators Mallegni and Gasparri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 910000/15, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 910000/200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 910000/200, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 910000/16, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "on the market." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 910000/201 are therefore excluded. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 910000/17, tabled by Senators Papatheu and Quagliariello. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 910000.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u182	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u183	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u184	PICHETTO FRATIN (FI-BP). Mr President, the issue concerns the way in which amendment 910000 was constructed, which has so many parts, being an amendment by the Government, and has replaced the old Article 9, which we shared in the principles: it was a little tight, but it was the real condone; it was a way of meeting all the regular businesses with an attempt to give them the opportunity to close down any possible failure that had occurred in their administration. The government has decided to give in to those who did not want to go to meet those taxpayers who wanted to close any slopes with the tax and limited themselves to the sanatoria of formal irregularities. On this, of course, we agree, we agree on the small lace to close the formal irregularities, because the transaction on formal irregularities, is the lace that the financial administration imposes on honest taxpayers, since if they were not honest, they would not commit formal irregularities. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The figure can certainly be large; it is small for the unit, but the number of enterprises is such that it would like to close the issue. However, I believe that the way in which Article 9 is constructed, in which there are many other issues, requires our Group to declare that it is totally in favour of regularising formal irregularities, but that it cannot vote on the amendment as a whole, which should perhaps have been broken in the various issues it deals with, from the appointment of Commissioners to other issues. That is why we shall abstain on this amendment. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u185	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 910000, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 9.3 to 9.60 are therefore not included and amendments 18.2 and 25.0.31 (text 2). Let us move on to Amendment 9.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u186	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u187	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u188	CONZACTS (FI-BP). Mr President, we have also pointed out in the Commission that these are the real measures that should be found in a tax decree, namely measures aimed at restoring a fair relationship between tax and taxpayer. In particular, Amendment 9.0.1 seeks to amend the taxpayer's statute, which would need to be updated, by providing for the regulation of the acceptance of debt by third parties. The Government has thus undertaken, in line with the work we are doing in the Finance and Treasury Commission, to incorporate all our suggestions into the next measure, which will really have to start what we have missed the opportunity to do today, indeed what the majority has missed the opportunity to do today, namely a real tax review. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u189	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.0.1, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.2 tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9.0.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u190	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u191	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u192	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, I am speaking because Amendment 9.0.4 concerns a matter of fairness and justice for all taxpayers and citizens. We, with this amendment, asked the majority to allow the taxpayer citizen, who makes use of the so-called fiscal pacification or what is left of it, to be able to use in payment the claims he had against the public administration. We would consider it a measure of justice and respect for the citizen, who, when he does not pay, is vexed by the State and, instead, when he has claims against him, cannot even use them. It would therefore be an act of good faith on the part of the Government and the majority to give this positive response to the citizens. President. - I call on all political forces, especially those who have always addressed the people and have always called for honesty, to vote in favour of a request that wants justice and fairness: let us pay with credits to the State. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u193	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.4 tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9.0.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u194	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u195	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u196	MANGIALAVORI (FI-BP). Mr President, I would have expected to have the approval of the Government and the rapporteurs in the Commission on Amendment 9.0.5; I would also have expected a vote in favour, because I wrote a draft law, then turned into an amendment, taking the very inspiration of an affair that should be very well known to you in the majority. I am referring to the Bramini entrepreneur, who had failed because of the State, of claims that he had never paid to the State. Bramini himself was instrumentally taken by this Government as a consultant and now, to the proof that you could use to transform the words used by you into deeds, voted against. The amendment tabled by myself, Mr Conzatti and Mr Sciascia, on behalf of the whole Forza Italia Group, wanted to make sure that there was from now on compensation for debts and debts. Now we are testing you and we will see, in my opinion, in this case too how good this yellow-red government is at talking, but very bad at acting. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u197	Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.5 tabled by Senator Mangialavori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9.0.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. MONTANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I withdraw the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.0.300, tabled by Senator Dell'Olio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9,0.301, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.0.301, tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 9.0.7 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9.0.8 (text 2), on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. MONTANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I withdraw Amendments 9,0.8 (text 2) and 9,0.9. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Let us move on to Amendment 9.0.10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.10 tabled by Senators Jacob and Garavini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.0.11, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.3 tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9.0.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.12, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9.0.13, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.0.13, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.0.14, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 10 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u198	Mr President, I am speaking on Article 10, so on an article which deals in particular with e-invoicing. It is a theme that is particularly dear to us as Brothers of Italy, because it weighs heavily on that small and medium-sized enterprise that is the beating heart of our economy. You, my friends of the majority, have provided more than a billion revenue for the state's coffers, drawing precisely from e-invoicing. Without prejudice to the fact that I doubt it very much and that I will be happy to expect you, in twelve or fifteen months' time, to do the math and see if you have actually taken this money, even if that happens (and, I repeat, I strongly doubt it), this money is taken by the poor entrepreneurs and artisans, to be addressed to assistantism. That is, we want to invest in welfare, making it pay for small businesses in our country. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]] Those small businesses that are already competing in a difficult market, with a state that does not give it real economic freedom. Here, this is basically the electronic invoice: cashing on the shoulders of those who work, to take that money and turn it to those who do not work and maybe have little desire to work. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u199	Mr President, I too take the floor to talk about Rule 10. We have already discussed this in this House a few days ago and we are also intervening today to express our deep disappointment about e-invoicing. This disappointment, in addition to being our conviction, is being urged today by many VAT matches, professionals, small entrepreneurs and artisans, who ask us not to delay, but to postpone the entry into force of electronic invoicing by a single year. The proposal we have made in this House and in the Commissions has unfortunately been rejected by a very strange political alliance, which sees the Government united with the Democratic Party in thinking about this reform. We express our disappointment, because the citizens are asking us at this particular time. We make this request also because today we still have great difficulties in our country: a large part of our territory still travels with 2G, you have to explain to me, then, how it starts an electronic invoice, if the system is still that of 2G. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] If we do not adapt our country's infrastructure electronically, it is difficult today to support such a reform. So we strongly call for an extension of at least one year of the entry into force of e-invoicing, so that it can start for some large companies have already adapted, but also allowing small and medium-sized enterprises to adapt to this system. What we especially care about is also the sanctions, with which we must not overshadow our citizens, which are already heavily sanctioned by a system of taxation that we are not seeing in any way reduced today. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] So it is a common sense rule that we are asking for approval: e-invoicing can come into force in a year's time and we can all say so today in this House. [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u200	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u201	Mr President, the opinion is in favour of Amendments 10,100 (text 2), 10,20 (text 2), 10.0,100/200, 10.0,100, 10.0,200 and 10,800. The remaining amendments were rejected.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u202	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u203	Let us move on to Amendment 10,200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10,200, tabled by Senator Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 10.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.1 tabled by Senators Gasparri and Pichetto Fratin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 10.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10.3 tabled by Senator de Bertoldi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u204	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u205	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u206	CONZACTS (FI-BP). Mr President, we have gathered many requests from taxpayers, Italian professionals and production groups. Everyone is asking us to ensure that the entry into force of e-invoicing is at least gradual. In particular, small and medium-sized enterprises are overburdened by the burden of the operation. We can also philosophically agree with the start of e-invoicing, but it is not possible that the State does not perform a function of compliance with taxpayers, does not put the interchange system in place and does not implement broadband throughout the national territory. How can taxpayers - especially small taxpayers - be asked to bear the costs that the state is dumping on them? This is indeed an injustice, which cannot happen in a social state. We have then paid attention to all this and proposed that the costs incurred by small businesses and professionals in implementing this measure be subject to tax credit. We have asked that the penalties for errors should not be applied, even retroactively, to those - it is a single category of subcontractors - who, because of the so-called thousandprorogations, apply electronic invoicing as early as 1 July 2018. It would be very desirable for a government that has filled its mouth with attention to citizens to take a step - I say one - in the direction of the backbone of this country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u207	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u208	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u209	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, in listening to the statements made by some of the Members of this House on this subject, it would appear that the majority and the Government have not dealt with e-invoicing. Actually, we've been dealing with this from the start. I remember that the previous Government Gentiloni Silveri, which introduced e-invoicing from 1 January 2019, went to Europe to ask for a derogation in order to anticipate the measure, because throughout Europe the departure was scheduled for 1 January 2020. A request for a derogation has therefore been made and it is not so simple, after a request for a derogation has been made, to go back to Europe and say that we now want to start the year after. And this is about relations with Europe that I often hear about in this House on many occasions. The Silveri Gentiloni Government has foreseen 2 billion revenue from e-invoicing; which means that if you want to postpone the measure by one year, you have to find 2 billion to put in the budget. That is the case, because we know how the budget works and therefore the coverage must be guaranteed. Since there is this situation, 2 billion on the one hand and European derogations, and given the budgetary situation, it is absolutely not... [[Brusio]] Please, colleagues, let me talk. I ask you a little respect, since, when you spoke, I was silent. Don't take the bad habit too! [[Comments from the FI-BP Group. Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] With the extension of the minimum system, the flat-rate one, 1.5 million VAT and professional consignments will be excluded, which will not have to use electronic invoicing, as they are excluded for membership of the flat-rate scheme. Moreover, this Government, precisely in the tax decree, provides that, if the invoice is issued beyond the terms laid down by the norm, however, the sanction will be cancelled until September 2019 - I do not remember precisely if the date is that of September 1st or 30th - and the sanctions will still be reduced by 20%. So, claiming that this government hasn't dealt with the issue isn't the truth. Then more could be done: this is always the case. When you are in opposition, you always shout what you could have done and did not do. However, given that there are so many measures, that there is maneuvering and there is often and willingly talk about the issue of decimals - tomorrow we will have Minister Tria here - we cannot find resources everywhere. We did what the government could do. We have spoken in this direction, certainly paying attention to all the craftsmen, entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises who were calling for a signal from the Commission, and this must be recognised in this House. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u210	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u211	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u212	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, the League Leader is right: when you are in opposition, you are more free to say the things you think. Our problem is precisely this: we have the impression that the League would like, but it cannot. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Our impression is that the League would like to be consistent with what it has always said, in defense of traders and small entrepreneurs - it has always done so and I recognize it - as we of Brothers of Italy. The problem now is not so much to be in the government, because hearing that we cannot contradict what the left-wing government has done in Europe seems to me a little too much, also because - thank God - we are doing something else. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] It seems to me that there is a difficulty, not about the 2 billion, but rather about the relationship with the Movimento 5 Stars. We cannot remain silent about the fact that the League must agree to change its opinion, not because it is the Government and has respect for the budget, but because the other part of the Government prevents it from being consistent. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] That is why we do not agree and will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u213	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 10.4 tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators, until the following words: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 10.5. are therefore excluded. We move on to amendment 10.2 (text 3) on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10.2 (text 3), tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.6, tabled by Senator Durnwalder and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10,100 (text 2)/1, tabled by Senator Beginini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 10,100 (text 2/2), on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u214	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u215	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u216	MALLEGNI (FI-BP). Mr President, we have tried to find every solution to ensure that the electronic invoice does not apply. We have asked for the deletion, we have asked for a delay in time and then we have also asked, with this amendment, for it to be applied above a minimum turnover. This is because, of course, when it comes to small and medium-sized enterprises, we are not talking about those with a flat-rate scheme of up to EUR 65,000 in turnover, not being these small and medium-sized enterprises. This is not the economic backbone of our country. Small and medium-sized enterprises are those whose turnover is around €500,000, €700,000 or €800,000. A "Sali e Tabacchi" exercise today is no longer what sells the kilo of salt, but it is what makes at least 600,000 euros a year for the sale of Scratch and Vinci: it is the smallest Italian company. So I understand the heartfelt appeal of the President of the League Group, Senator Romeo. I fully understand that, because it must give explanations, certainly to us, that we are here with you and we have had an election campaign, during which we told companies that we would significantly lower taxes, that we would even remove them, that we would relaunch investments, that we would make sure that in the first financial year of the first centre-right government there would be an important reduction in the tax burden, both national and local. Then, instead, what do we need to see? We must see that, rather than vigorously countering a rule carried out by the central-left government, the Silver Gentilon Government, by erasing it, they are justifying themselves with those who voted for them, with those who voted for us, with those who supported us, saying that all this cannot be done. So what is the motivation that forces our friends in the League to remain in a government that, rather than going in the direction of helping businesses and the development of our territory, only serves to maintain a position of government and power within this Parliament and within such a difficult situation? But it is good for the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars to have two laughs under the mustache, because in this case the center-right component of this Government is annihilated, almost disappeared, and almost vanished, in particular on the issue of tax decree, taxes and budget maneuver, which was to be a revival of the activity and of the small and medium-sized enterprises of this country. Then we tried again, and you have an opportunity, friends of the League. Mr President, in this case there is an opportunity: we are moving forward and we are approving this amendment which exempts companies with a turnover of up to EUR 2 million from the application of e-invoicing. We give the feeling and the impression of truly understanding the needs of those who today make the development of our country. There is nothing else in this country, in this and in other continents but the enterprises that make development and employment. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] How do you not understand? Faced with the choice whether to stay in government or defend development and the economy we would not have hesitated for a moment: we would have defended the economy and we would have abandoned the Government. And this is what we ask our friends of the League: let them drift and let us stand firm on the commitments made with the voters on 4 March. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u217	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u218	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u219	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I am not going to ask the same thing. Each Group is free to decide whether or not to stay with the Government. I would like to say a few words about the measure. I believe that we are consuming another stage in a long story, Mr President; a story that sees a continuous harassment in recent years - with the partial exception of the periods in which he ruled the right-wing - to the detriment of the self-employed. There is a way of imagining the relationships always of suspicion towards the self-employed, and therefore, in this case, those who are called to e-invoicing or small companies. Amendment 10,100 (text 2)/2, which resembles a more complex, but similar one, by Brothers of Italy, presented by Senator De Bertoldi, gives us the opportunity to remind the friends of the League that this cultural approach has also been seen today. Do you know what the proof is? It is the fact that all the amendments which sought to limit the damage to small businesses, craftsmen and traders have been rejected not only by the vote - already sufficient - of the governing parties, but also by the compact vote of the whole left; a consistent vote, for goodness sake, with its long history of harassment against small and medium-sized companies, towards the craftsmen and traders. You're not in good company. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] Once we have voted on the measure, we will immediately begin - said Giorgia Meloni - a campaign to collect signatures with citizens so that the same does not remain as you imagined. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u220	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u221	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u222	ORTIS (M5S). Mr President, I would like to add something about what is being said as a disaster, namely e-invoicing. When I started this discussion I turned on my tablet - five minutes ago - and activated the electronic billing for my company. Well, the annual cost of such activity will be 35 euros; therefore, all the difficulty you speak of for a small and medium-sized company like mine - and like many other small and medium-sized Italian companies - does not exist. Probably, those who have spoken for a long time have lost contact with reality, for a long time no longer manages their own companies. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I understand that there are categories that have more difficulty in using electronic instruments, but for them there is always the study of the accountant who, at least in my areas, for a small amount of invoice, makes himself available to help for the first time. [[Comments from the FI-BP Group.]] However, I want to reassure you: in five minutes for each company you can activate an electronic billing system with a really ridiculous cost. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] MALAN (FI-BP). It's not working.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u223	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10,100 (text 2/2), tabled by Senators Mallegni and Conzatti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10,100 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u224	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u225	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u226	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of amendment 10,100 (text 2), which introduces the exemption from the obligation of electronic invoicing for commercial activities with revenues of up to 65,000 euros. However, I would like to remind my colleagues that 65,000 euros in turnover is not 65,000 euros in earnings, but in turnover. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , which often corresponds to an extremely small gain or even a loss. So don't pretend to be saving people, because you only save small businesses, as Senator Mallegni said. The real enterprises are those that invoice much more, for certainly limited earnings, certainly not from 6,000 euros per month, but much lower. On the other hand, people who will in fact collect between 1,500 and 2,000 per month of income impose obligations that are unfortunately much more complicated than those who have spoken before: there are programs sold at a high price; we have to install procedures; we spend tens of minutes on a few invoices, maybe for a few euros. This is the real situation. This is the real country. We should understand that and not just say that we represent it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u227	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 10,100 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 10,201 and 10,202 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.7, which is identical to Amendments 10.8, 10.9 and 10.10. Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 10.7. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10.8, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other Senators, identical to Amendments 10.9, tabled by Senator Sciascia and other Senators, and 10.10, tabled by Senator Steger and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On Amendment 10,800 the opinion of the Budget Commission is missing. Senator Pesco, I would therefore ask you to give your opinion, pursuant to Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u228	Mr President, the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u229	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u230	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u231	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, this is the fifth dossier which must be kept together, given that the whole dossier, which is not covered by the amendment under consideration, has been prepared for this House not before 4 p.m. I therefore use this further time to stigmatize the fact that this House needs to be better prepared; especially the work of the Budget Commission cannot put Parliament in these working conditions. [[Applause from the PD Group. Senator Taverna's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u232	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 10,800, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 10.15, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u233	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u234	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u235	Mr Berardi (FI-BP). Mr President, we are here today to talk about e-invoicing. In practice, we are killing the Italian small and medium-sized enterprise: unfortunately, today we will certify this the vote we are going to take. Our colleagues of the League and the 5 Star Movement occasionally give us some ideas, such as wi-fi; yes, it is wonderful to use the Wi-Fi of the Senate, but I would like to know how to send an electronic invoice with the 2G, which we find quietly in the smallest municipalities. They say that e-invoicing cannot be extended because it is the fault of the Gentiloni Government Silveri, but the income of citizenship is the fault of the 5 Star Government, and not of the Silveri Gentiloni Government. If we have to find EUR 2 billion to extend e-invoicing by one year and give a breath to those who work, we can safely reduce citizenship income. It is unacceptable to give income to those who do not work, to those who do nothing, to those who do nothing for our country. We only ask for help for our small and medium-sized enterprises, which have always been the ones that have carried Italy forward, those that have the right to have a worthy future and the Government on their side. I'm surprised our friends at the League can allow such a thing. Those are our voters, those who have always voted for us, the people of VAT matches, whom you are exchanging with the people of idlers. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u236	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.15 tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 10.11, which is identical to Amendments 10.12, 10.13 and 10.14, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 10.12. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10.11 tabled by Senator Damiani and other senators, identical to Amendments 10.13, tabled by Senator Sciascia and other senators, and 10.14, tabled by Senator Steger and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 10.16, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.16, tabled by Senators Gasparri and Pichetto Fratin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 10.17, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10.17, tabled by Senator De Bertoldi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.18.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u237	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u238	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u239	Mr Grimani (PD). Mr President, we would never have thought that the processing of the electronic invoice would lead to a debate between the coalition which was so animated and so passionately centre-right. Honestly, we don't care much about the more or less acclaimed respect of your program. You don't have to ask yourself so much about the judgment on e-invoicing and your assessments about this topic; rather you should ask yourself why your electoral promises, those of the center-right, a flat tax that was at the door, have become clouds, have vanished into thin air and I think we will never see the famous flat tax in our country. Maybe ask yourself about this and don't open a dialogue between you on e-invoicing, which is also a topic that we would like to deepen from many points of view. We believe it is right that the measure under consideration that has distant origins, because it is not born today, begins to enter the regime and is part of the normal management of the tax of our country. The minority rapporteur spoke earlier about e-invoicing as an infrastructure for our tax system. I believe that - and I am not saying this - the Democratic Party does not say so, but the Court of Auditors and the Ministry of Finance say that traceability is an added value in order to bring about a more credible fight against evasion. We have a VAT evasion of 36 billion a year, and it is a European primacy: it is an evasion of 13% above the European average and we have to ask ourselves a few questions. I don't think everyone is evaders, and the Democratic Party doesn't think so, but traceability is certainly an instrument that can allow a more just and fair fight against evasion. [[Comments of Senator Rizzotti]] And I don't say that, but so do higher organisms. From this point of view, we are aware that there is a technological adjustment that must be taken into account, not in terms of costs, but in terms of the time needed to do so. On that we are not prejudiced against, but we think that this dilatory action is not effective and efficient. On the other hand, we think that this system must enter into a permanent system. I would also like to remind you that we in the Democratic Party are not for the tax state, but we are for a fair tax. In recent years, our reforms have allowed the tax burden to fall, albeit not very high, as well as an important recovery of tax evasion. I do not say that, but the Revenue Agency says: 20 billion of recovery, plus 5.8 million compared to the previous year. Similarly, many more roles have been taken over than in previous years, and the Revenue Agency in the Finance Commission has always explained these results to us: 12 billion compared to 8.8 billion in the previous year. Therefore, we are not for the tax state, but we are for a state in which taxes are paid for what is right to pay and, therefore, to make sure, once this happens, that tax pressure is also lowered accordingly. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u240	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.18, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.19, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.20 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u241	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u242	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u243	FENU, rapporteur. Mr President, I must point out that the period added to Article 1, paragraph 6-a, of Legislative Decree No 127 of 2015 is actually additional and not a substitute. I can read the entire amendment if necessary.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u244	It says "After paragraph 1 add the following" and, therefore, I interpret it as an additional. But then it says that the period is replaced. RENZI (PD). This is a law. You don't understand anything! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can read the full text, since the premise says "After paragraph 1 add "" and after it is written "the first period is replaced." Read it in full so that we can understand what you're saying.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u245	After paragraph 1, add the following: 1-a. In Article 1, paragraph 6-a, of Legislative Decree no. 127 of August 5, 2015, after the first period, add the following: "For the period of free storage of the electronic invoices referred to in this Article, made available to VAT operators by the Revenue Agency, the technology partner Sogei SpA may not rely on third parties.'........................................................................................................................................................................................ PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Does the government agree with this reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u246	Yes, Mr. President. MIRABELLI (PD). It's another amendment!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u247	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u248	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u249	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, as has been pointed out above, we are opposed to this approach, particularly the 5th Commission. Mr President, I would remind you that at the Conference of the Leaders, the focus of the debate was on the fact that, by 9 p.m. tonight, the work, out of the absolute necessity of the League and the 5 Star Movement, was to be completed. [[Applause from Senator Leonardo.]] Today, however, we had more delays and more breaks, because they were obviously not ready. But if they were not ready, Mr President, we had decided that the Commission would work on Saturday and Sunday. Why didn't this happen? I do not think that institutions can be regarded as something with which I would wash my feet. This is unacceptable! [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]] Furthermore, we are now faced with a text on which, personally, I have not understood what has been said. I didn't understand what the change was. I wish I had the written text and the time to analyze it. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]] There are no reasons to proceed to the vote immediately. We haven't figured out what we're voting for. You, Mr President - and I have pointed this out many times - must ensure that this House is able to work seriously. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This decree-law, thanks to the conduct of the 5th Commission, is not being seriously worked out. Parliament is serious. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]] The tax decree concerns our citizens. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]] Please, let us take a responsible attitude, appropriate to the institution and to the measure we are discussing. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u250	Senator Marcucci, you're right, because at the Conference of the Leaders we had set a different timing than what happened. I can only take note of that. When we begin a debate in this House and the Commission has not finished its work, I must allow it to finish. Mr Marcucci (PD). The Commission has finished. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. However, I cannot have a different effect on the timing of the Commission's work. I understand and hope that, as far as the other measures are concerned, account will be taken of what is decided at the Conference of the Leaders. As far as the matter is concerned... [[Senator Errani points out that he wants to intervene.]] I'm talking; I finish talking and then I give the floor to whoever requests it. As far as the rewording is concerned, it seems to me that the presence of a refuse is clear. Mr Ferrari (PD). No! Mr Marcucci (PD). No, this is an amendment from the Commission! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. When I asked to read it, I said it seemed special to me. It says, in fact, "After paragraph 1, add the following." There is then written it is replaced, but in reality it was said before adding. Mr Marcucci (PD). No. Change the term, change the content. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It seemed to me that this was an additional amendment; after that the wording was in fact incorrect and has been replaced but it does not seem to me that it substantially changes the ratio of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u251	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u252	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u253	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I am speaking very calmly and calmly to say that this story of the 5th Commission must end. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, PD and FI-BP Groups]] President, I shall break a speech in favour of the President of the 5th Commission (the members of the Commission will be surprised). The problem we have here as... [[Comments of Senator Airola]] Mr President, I think you can give him the floor. It's not a problem for me: I listen and answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u254	Senator Errani, excuse me if I interrupt you, to give the House the opportunity to verify the amendment, we can also dismiss it, nothing happens, so that each of you has the opportunity to read it and verify the compatibility of the first wording with the second. We put it aside and verify it, so that each one has the time to verify it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u255	Thank you for interrupting me; I was saying that as long as I am interrupted by a majority senator, there is no problem. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, PD and FI-BP Groups]] I would like to say to all my colleagues, since this is happening, something simple; we had given the willingness to convene the Commission on Sunday. On Monday, when we called at 11, we worked an hour and three quarters because the government and the majority were not ready. This is the proof that we are now in favour of this amendment, which can be put aside, Mr President, but the problem is that there has been a dialectic in the majority on several amendments which have been blamed on the functionality of the 5th Commission. That, Mr President, is the issue on which you must speak, rather than my speech. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, PD and FI-BP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u256	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u257	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u258	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I am reluctant to speak because we would have preferred not to make this controversy about the sense of responsibility that we also had during the examination of this decree-law and we also demonstrated at the meeting of the Leaders. I must point out to you that the role of Presidency is first and foremost a guarantee of opposition because the majority defend themselves. [[Applause from the FdI and PD Groups]] We have the right to understand what we are voting on. Mr President, with all the efforts of benevolence, what you call a formal amendment is a substantial change and if it had not been for the intervention of the opposition colleagues, we would probably have voted on a text different from what was at our attention. The provision you have proposed - and you have anticipated me in this request - is therefore an absolutely necessary gesture at this time. I wonder whether the provision is sufficient to prevent this situation from being reflected in the further examination of Article 10. More generally, by adding once again to Mr Errani's statements, we denounce the fact that the 5th Commission, in addition to carrying out its work too close to the work of this House, is being used by the majority as a trap to ensure that the measures, amendments and proposals likely to create embarrassment in the majority cannot reach the vote. [[Applause from the FdI and PD Groups]] That is not acceptable, Mr President. Once again we ask you to guarantee above all and mainly for the oppositions because the majority, I repeat, defend themselves because the Government is strong and has on its side the numbers that make the difference. The Presidency is called upon to enforce the Rules of Procedure and above all to give voice to the rights of oppositions who have the right to know what they are voting on. Mr President, let us tell you this once again, hoping it will be the last. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u259	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u260	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u261	PICHETTO FRATIN (FI-BP). Mr President, I believe that at the close of today's sitting of the Commission, President Pesco said that he had been authorized to wait for the Government's opinion and to use Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure and, therefore, to give reasons in this House for the opinion of the 5th Commission, hearing the Government, following the debate in the Commission. The question, however, which does not make sense, apart from the possible lack of motivation that we can point out, is the substitution which instead becomes an addition. We are changing the text of the amendment in this House by building a new one. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Mr President, in this case you must give us the time to read it together and evaluate it, otherwise I do not think we can proceed. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u262	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u263	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u264	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, it is not as we have been told by the rapporteur in a clearly lying and also conscious way: it is not just a matter of drawing up the text. It is not at all because it profoundly changes the meaning. In addition, using this escamotage, we are asked to vote in this House on an amendment as if it had been approved by the Commission. Mr President, that is not the case and you must prevent these attitudes from being taken by the rapporteur because this is not the right way forward. It is an insult to this House on a sensitive issue such as the tax decree. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I therefore believe that there should be attention to procedures, and I do not think that we should put this aside. I believe that the rapporteur must have the courage to say that, of course, he cannot do his job and that he must present his new amendment, replacing this. That's the way it should be. We will go to the Commission and we will give ourselves time to subdue and we will talk about it tomorrow. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr President, in my view, we must proceed in this way. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u265	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u266	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u267	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, receiving a criticism from a parliamentary group which, in the last parliamentary term, failed to act in the Constitutional Court makes me laugh a little. [[Live comments from PD and FI-BP Groups.]] [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The president said he'd stand by. We are proceeding to get you the text, as has always been done in the legislative classrooms. Soon you will have the text. [[Live comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u268	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u269	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u270	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing everyone, including the majority. Since we have established a fruitful dialogue with the Commission on this measure, which has led to a debate... [[Comments from the FI-BP Group]] It has been fruitful because there are many requests for minority amendments; perhaps not being the right measure and having been referred back with an agenda to the debate at the budgetary session, in the Finance Committee we have built a climate that has led to the definition of certain requests coming from minorities with a job that went in this direction. Therefore, I do not think it is intended by the rapporteur. A solution can be found. That's the invitation. We do not create the usual climate seen on other occasions. We find a solution to ensure that minorities are protected in their requests for this amendment, in order to ascertain whether this is really a matter of drafting. However, let us continue with that climate of mutual respect, perhaps even animated and on different positions, which marked the day. After three hours of voting, there may well be some issues. We don't start rubbing things in between us, you and them, or we'll be here for a month. This is the invitation I make to the whole House, hoping that the peaceful climate of confrontation we have had throughout the afternoon will continue. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u271	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u272	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u273	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I am starting from the appeal of the League Leader and I remember that we decided, in the meeting with the Presidents of the Groups, to which the Vice Presidents of the Senate also participate, to... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator La Russa, actually, another Senator from your group has already spoken. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). I would ask you to speak on the order of business, Mr President. I was saying that we planned the closure of the work at 21, precisely because the government's requirement was to close this measure in a climate as much as possible shared. Now two things are clear: that the climate is deteriorating and, above all, that at 9 p.m. we will not close this measure, and certainly not because of the oppositions. If anything, it is the majority who have been obstructed by themselves, not carrying out their work in the Commission. Therefore, to respond to the appeal of the President of the League Group, I ask you whether it is not appropriate (that is why I am speaking on the order of business), since it is 8.10 p.m., to postpone the continuation of the work until tomorrow morning. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u274	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u275	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u276	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would also like to speak on the order of business. Very quickly I wanted to warn my colleague La Russa that tonight he plays Juve, while Inter plays tomorrow night. So we can move on. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] [[Senator La Russa points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u277	Senator La Russa, we can't do a bump and answer right now; that's not possible. If you have something to say, you'll say it at the end of this evening's work. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would like to sum up the demands of this evening. The closing time, according to the calendar, is scheduled at 9 p.m. Since there is a problem here concerning the interpretation of amendment 10.20 in the rewording proposed by the rapporteur, I propose that this amendment be put aside, so that everyone can read it again and read the subsequent amendments, if they are related to it. I therefore propose that we put aside Amendment 10.20 and subsequent amendments until the end of the amendments to Article 10. I would continue with the amendments to Article 11. I believe that this is the best choice for everyone, in order to be able to assess the interpretative scope of this amendment. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] The remaining amendments to Article 10 are therefore provided for. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 11 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u278	Mr President, let us return to the issue of e-invoicing. Our calls for common sense were not accepted, nor was the European Union's request to postpone the introduction of e-invoicing until 2020. Moreover, with Article 11 we will send Italy into chaos, as we expect tight dates and loops around the neck for entrepreneurs and accountants in order to issue invoices. With our amendments we propose more flexible dates and, in particular, the possibility of sending to the control system by the end of the month invoices issued in the first fifteen days of the month and in the following month those issued instead later. We therefore call for flexibility, but we have also found the doors closed by the majority on this issue. In this way, from now on, other than simplifications: you are bringing complications in the everyday lives of citizens. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] (at 20.12 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u279	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u280	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments tabled in Article 11.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u281	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u282	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 11.1 tabled by Senator Sciascia and other senators, up to the words 'n'. 100... 100... 100... 100... 100... 100... 100... 100... 100... 100... 100... 100... 100... 100... 100.. 100... 100.. 100... 100.. 100.. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 11.2 to 11.9. are therefore not included. Let us move on to amendment 11.10 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I withdraw the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.11, which is identical to Amendments 11.12 and 11.13. Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 11.11. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.12 tabled by Senator Steger and other senators, identical to amendment 11.13, tabled by Senator Sciascia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.14, tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 11.15, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 11.15, tabled by Senator Damiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 11.16, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I withdraw the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Let us move on to Amendment 11,17, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 11:17, tabled by Senator Sciascia and other senators, until the following words: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 11,18 to 11,21 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 13 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u283	Mr President, I am returning to speak in this House on this subject, which is particularly close to my heart. Amendment 13.0.1 aims to simplify, deburocratise and pursue the logic of a State which must be a contributor and not an inquisitor to the taxpayer. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Not only is the obligation of electronic invoicing required, but at least the taxpayer's obligation to store the computer documentation once it has been sent to the public administration or to the competent authorities is removed. In fact, I think it is a burden that will have a further impact on the obligations arising from e-invoicing. We must be close to the taxpayer and to the citizens, and we must not constantly contribute to these impositions which are burdensome and burdensome. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Does it seem to you that it is too costly for the Revenue Agency to assume this obligation? It is better, in your opinion, to entrust and oblige the taxpayer. We, on the other hand, are close to the citizens and want to vote yes to this amendment because at least we give a signal that we want to be at their side and not on their shoulders. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u284	Mr President, I would like to ask that we be able to turn Amendment 13.0.2 into an agenda, as in previous agreements in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u285	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendment and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u286	Mr President, the opinion is against Amendment 13.0.1. Instead, it supports the adoption of the G13.0.2 agenda as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u287	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u288	I say that any amendments to Amendment 10.20 (text2), which have been put aside, will have to be tabled before 9 p.m. Let us move on to amendment 13.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution, only to paragraph 1. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 13.0.1, tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Durnwalder, insists on voting on the agenda G13.0.2. Durnwalder (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The agenda for G13.0.2 was therefore adopted as a recommendation. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 14 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u289	Mr President, the heading in Article 14 refers to simplifications in the area of VAT deduction, but the last period, rather than simplification, could be defined as complication. Anyone who has dealt with administration knows that such a provision makes no sense. The right to deduct must be exercised within a period of time and it is in no way acceptable that invoices received in December or at the end of the year should be treated differently from all other invoices. Therefore, we have proposed - but we are not the only ones, many other groups have done so, because this has a technical sense - to delete the last period of the article.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u290	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendments Nos 14.0.10 and 14.0.11, which aim to increase the deduction - at least for people over 60 - for all the costs of veterinary medicines. At a time when the sustainability of our health system is being tested, we know perfectly well how for an elderly person to take care of an animal, as well as helping the promotion of lifestyle for a healthy old age, also allows you not to fall into depression. The lack of physical activity and loneliness of an elder can certainly be improved by the presence of an animal. We know perfectly well that, if veterinary expenses cannot be deducted, the elderly even get rid of the food from their tables so that they can treat their pet. Therefore, I really ask for sensitivity to this House at least for people who have passed the age of sixty and are in deep loneliness. Amendment 14.0.11, on the other hand, calls for all to be able to deduct veterinary costs at least up to EUR 1,000. Again, there would be a gain for the state. Let us think about how much the municipalities could save - not to mention the horrible phenomenon of straying in the Central-South - if people were encouraged to adopt, for example, a dog or a cat in the caniles or cats, which instead are at the expense of the municipalities and therefore of the citizens. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u291	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u292	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Rule 14.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u293	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u294	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 14.1, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other Senators, identical to Amendments 14.2, tabled by Senator Sciascia and other Senators, 14.3, tabled by Senator Steger and other Senators, 14.4, tabled by Senator Mallegni and other Senators, and 14.5, tabled by Senator De Bertoldi and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 14.6 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 14.6 tabled by Senator Damiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment No 14.0.1, which is identical to Amendments Nos 14.0.2, 14.0.3, 14.0.4 and 14.0.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote. Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 14.0.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u295	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u296	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u297	CONZACTS (FI-BP). Mr President, Amendment 14.0.3 concerns Italian companies working abroad and we know how much Italy needs export at the moment. The system of e-invoicing which, due to the intransigence of this majority, will enter into force from 1 January 2019 does not affect invoices issued to foreign entities because Italy, as we all know, will be a pilot at European level compared to the early entry into force of e-invoicing. It is therefore necessary for those who issue invoices abroad to have a feedback of such invoices from the State. This is the overall picture. However, it is not clear why this type of company is being asked to carry out this type of communication, which is renamed a "spentometer" on a monthly basis, which is too oppressive for companies. For this reason, many of us have reasonably asked for this to be done annually, which is absolutely sufficient to account for the activity of these companies. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u298	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.1, tabled by Senator Conzatti and other Senators, identical to Amendments 14.0.3, tabled by Senator Sciascia and other Senators, 14.0.4, tabled by Senator De Bertoldi, and 14.0.5, tabled by Senator Steger and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 14,0300, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 14.0.300, tabled by Senator Damiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 14.0.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u299	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u300	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u301	CONZACTS (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to withdraw the amendment and turn it into an agenda, and I would also accept it as a recommendation. Moreover, this type of amendments are based on a collaborative approach to the relationship between professionals and the State, because they aim to have categories of non-ordering professionals adopt them and that in any case represent taxpayers at the Revenue Agency and tax commissions, the famous certified e-mail (PEC) to receive communications through this type of mode. It is incomprehensible why this measure was not adopted in the measure under discussion and therefore, with a recommendation, we would like this Government to take over from here a few months.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u302	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda resulting from the transformation of amendment 14.0.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u303	Mr President, I am in favour of a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u304	Mr President, I welcome this as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u305	As the authors do not insist on the vote, the agenda for the G14.0.6 is accepted as a recommendation. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.7 tabled by Senator Conzatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 14.0.10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u306	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u307	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u308	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we shall be voting in favour of this amendment as well as the following. I would point out, among other things, that there are other additional amendments to Article 17 tabled by several colleagues on the same issue. I would like to remind everyone that the question of deductions for veterinary expenses, which have been fixed for a very long time and have a very relatively significant impact (because the maximum deduction is in fact about 50 euros, so a fairly small sum), can only be considered within the more general health system, being in direct connection with the latter. In addition, there is also a social aspect, which was also reminiscent of Mrs Rizzotti, who cannot escape us. We have also tabled amendments on the VAT exemption for the fight against straying: tell me whether it is not a health and social issue. I appeal - and I also appeal to the rapporteur, who I do not know if he is listening to me - to take these amendments into account, as well as the subsequent amendments that we have also tabled across the board, which concern both the issue of VAT on the fight against straying and deductions for veterinary expenditure. I also call on all my colleagues who join the parliamentary intergroup on animal rights to make their voices heard and not just to take up a commitment in the vote. I would also like to know whether the rapporteur confirms his opinion even after this appeal, because we can possibly also consider other ways. These amendments could, for example, be dealt with together with the subsequent ones. The further appeal I make is not to consider this issue secondary, because it has a great deal to do with Italian families: there are 12 million families that have pets at home, so the impact is certainly not very small. In addition, there are many interested people, especially elderly people, so this is also a social aspect that you absolutely cannot neglect. I would once again ask the rapporteur and also the Government whether they wish to take a different decision on the opinions they have expressed on both these amendments and those referred to in Article 17.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u309	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u310	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u311	GIAMMANCO (FI-BP). Mr President, I also call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government, Mr Bitonci, to re-evaluate the importance and value of amendment 14.0.10 to Article 14-a. This is a very important amendment because it increases the deductions for veterinary expenditure in favour of the over 60 (i.e. for the elderly). Today these deductions are really ridiculous: think, they don't even reach 130 euros. It is absurd if we think that veterinary costs in Italy are really too expensive; not to mention those of medicines dedicated to animals. Well, these veterinary expenses are so high that often, unfortunately, they also become the cause of abandoning their pet, because the owners are unable to deal with them. We therefore call for an act of courage from the Government and the rapporteur on an amendment that can be very transversal and voted by representatives of all parties who believe that it is useful to increase tax deductions for veterinary expenditure on behalf of older people. The international scientific community has recognised the validity of pet therapy, i.e. therapy with the use of domestic animals in favour of children who have very serious diseases, in favour of disabled people and people who have psychological problems, mental problems and depression. This can really be an investment for the next few years. From this investment the State can earn us as well as definitely our national health system. I would therefore ask you to consider again the importance of this proposal and to vote in favour of Amendment 14.0.10. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u312	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u313	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u314	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to appeal to the rapporteur and to the representative of the Government in the hope that he will accept these amendments, on which I am not going to say any more, because I agree with what my colleagues Mr De Petris and Mr Giammanco have already said, and with me I am a member of the Intergroup on Animal Rights. This Intergroup is cross-cutting and brings together many Members of Parliament and Senators, including the majority. I remind my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars that the environmental and animal aspect is a founding part of their party program and of what is stated on almost all of your platforms. As a matter of fact, some municipal administrations at your head are also following the directions already followed for some time by the municipal administrations led by many mayors of the center-left. I remind everyone of what has been done in fourteen years in the City of Rome, when with the center-left joints we founded the Animal Rights Office which became a driving force for other administrations. Mrs Giammanco has said very well: in many families, particularly of elderly people, veterinary expenses are an important voice, where, in front of a loneliness, for a thousand social reasons that is not the case to deepen at this moment, a non-human friend, a four-legged son, becomes the center of the life and loneliness of these elderly people. There are elders who also have two, three or four animals at home and who often deprive themselves of money to treat their animals. Another important fact - and it has been pointed out well - is the attempt to reduce VAT on food and veterinary medicines. We cannot think that the food for dogs and cats, for small rodents, for birds and for all the animals that are in our homes is taxed as luxury goods. Having an animal in the house, very often saved by a kennel, very often picked up by the road, is certainly not a display of luxury. That is why we have tabled a number of amendments in the Animal Rights Intergroup, and I would like to thank Mr Marcucci for that. I therefore declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour of these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u315	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u316	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u317	Mr BITONCI, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. Mr President, I call on the authors of amendments 14.0.10, 14.0.11 and 14.0.12 to turn them into agendas, which the Government undertakes to accept as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u318	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u319	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u320	FENU, rapporteur. Mr President, I agree with the representative of the Government and I call on all those who have tabled amendments on the same subject to turn them into agendas that the Government undertakes to accept as a recommendation. I am referring to the amending proposals concerning veterinary expenditure and their tax deduction.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u321	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u322	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u323	BERTACCO (FdI). Mr President, in addition to the Government's announcement on the transformation of the agenda (I do not know what wording, whether to assess whether or not to do so), I believe that it should be reiterated in this House that it would be better to maintain and approve the amendments. I like to remember that Alzheimer's, autism and disability are all issues that involve the use of animals for therapy, which is giving very strong results. Among the many, one of the latest project experiments that is being carried out on the territory provides for the adoption of tripod dogs, therefore with disabilities, to be combined in pet therapy programs, to show young children that disability is overcome. And since I believe that it would not compromise the state's accounts to approve this proposal, I would ask the rapporteur and the government to reconsider the adoption of these amendments. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Senator Gallone points out that she wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u324	Senator Gallone, I cannot give you the floor because Senator Giammanco has already spoken for your Group. I would ask Senator Rizzotti if she accepts the proposal for a change to the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u325	Mr President, I am rather perplexed. In fact, it is also clear from the statements made by my fellow Members that the cost to the State would be limited. Not only that: I had also found cover for these minimum expenditures for the state budget, but important for families, through the fund of the indifferent needs. I do not accept the change to the agenda, and I would therefore like the amendment to be voted on. [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u326	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 14.0.10, tabled by Senator Rizzotti, until the words "euro" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 14.0.11. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment No 14.0.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u327	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u328	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u329	Mr Rizzotti (FI-BP). Mr President, since there has been a great deal of joy in approving the extension of the baby bonus, knowing that it will only be a year, I will vote in favour of my amendment, which calls for deduction for the expenses that families bear for the inclusion in the gym of their children or for the elderly. I believe that this is always part of a public health and prevention project and, as far as young people are concerned, it also invests their education, not only as a physical activity, but also as a school of life: sport teaches, for example, respect, civic education, as has been mentioned, being in a group. I also found the cover for this amendment. I think of the family, with a one-year-old bonus, compared to those who grow up two or three boys and have them practice sports, or the elderly, that would save the health care system drugs and visits, perhaps useless, if he could dedicate himself to something that also involves him intellectually (because a gym for the elderly also means coordination and keeping watchful their system of reflections). I hope that the House will at least respond positively to this. It's public health, not favoring someone. It is useless to exalt yourself for a year of extension of the baby bonus, when you do not help the family to raise their children in a healthy way. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u330	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 14.0.12 tabled by Senator Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment No 14.0.13, which is identical to Amendment No 14.0.301, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 14.0.13 tabled by Senators Iannone and De Bertoldi, identical to Amendment 14.0.301, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 14.0.200.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u331	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u332	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u333	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, I would like to add my signature to Amendment 14.0.200. The subject of the transformation of the right of ownership of the area in the years 1967, 1969, 1970 and 1972 is relevant not only in the capital city of Italy, but also in many other metropolitan realities (I think of Palermo, Naples and also the city of the Italian Province) and since there is a work in progress carried out in part in the Finance Commission, but also in other places of the technique, law and urban planning, we can turn the amendment into an agenda because we have built an adequacy of interest in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u334	I would ask those present whether they accept the change in the agenda. Parent (PD). Yes, Mr President, I accept the change of the amendment to an agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u335	Mr President, I welcome the inclusion of the agenda as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u336	Mr President, I welcome the agenda as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u337	As the authors do not insist on the vote, the agenda for the G14.0.200 is accepted as a recommendation. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 15 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u338	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 15.2 (text 2) and 15.0.1 (text 2). I am against the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u339	Mr President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u340	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 15.2 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.3 tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 15.0.1 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 15.0.2 and 15.0.3 are therefore excluded. We move on to Amendment 15.0.5 (text 2) on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u341	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u342	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u343	CONZACTS (FI-BP). Mr President, we have discussed this in the Commission and we would agree to the change of agenda. We believe that, as in the thousand extensions of July the split payment for professionals has been repealed, so from 1 January 2019 this anti-evasive instrument should be repealed, given the entry into force of electronic invoicing, which this Government interprets not as a measure of social progress, but as an anti-evasive instrument. It would be a duplication to further increase taxpayers.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u344	I would ask whether there is a similar intention for the next amendment 15.0.6? STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, we have also discussed this in the Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u345	Mr President, I am in favour of accepting this as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u346	Mr President, I welcome the agenda as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u347	As the authors do not insist on the vote, the agenda for the G15.0.5 is accepted as a recommendation. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 15.0.4 tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 15.0.200.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u348	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u349	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u350	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, you should be tired of seeing the amendment on the definition of the Endo W auctions, which once again seeks to convince this Government, in the midst of a ruling by the Council of State, to define the authorisations and who must grant them in order to allow all the companies involved in recycling and the circular economy to be able to continue working because the plants are now stationary. I know that we have become a broken record, however, please, for a Government, which pompously defines itself as Government of the circular economy, which makes conferences and talks about green economy, waste and a whole series of initiatives that go in the order of ideas that companies have to work for environmental sustainability, it really seems a paradox. It is not a matter of party interests because everyone has moved on this issue, from Legambiente to Confindustria, through all the associations. Tonight the amendment will certainly be rejected because I have seen the views of the Government, but I will remember it every time you call yourself the Government of the circular economy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u351	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.0.200, tabled by Senator Gallone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 16 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u352	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 16.0.100, 16.0.200 and 16.0.300 (text 3). I am against all the other amendments. I am in favour of accepting the G16.1 agenda as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u353	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u354	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.1, tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Pichetto Fratin, the G16.1 agenda was accepted by the Government as a recommendation. Are you insisting on the vote? PICHETTO FRATIN (FI-BP). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The G16.1 agenda was therefore adopted as a recommendation. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.0.100/1, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 16.0.100, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 16.0,200, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.0.300 (text 3/1), tabled by Senators Sciascia and Conzatti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 16.0.300 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u355	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u356	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u357	MODENA (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking Senator Conzatti, because this very short speech is the result of a conversation and a reflection that we had this afternoon and that I would like to offer you. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In fact, perhaps it would be better if this amendment were put to the vote tomorrow morning, in a cold mind. In fact, this Commission amendment, which seems to me to be proposed by a 5 Star Movimento senator, essentially grants access to all citizens' current accounts not only to the Revenue Agency (as it already is) but also to the Financial Guard. But it's not necessarily about evaders. This is a substantial change, according to which for everything that is found at the Post Office and intermediaries (let's also think about the old man, because the provision concerns everything and there are no limits) access is allowed to the Revenue Agency, but also to the Finance Guard. There is the detail - in my opinion, not least - that the Finance Guard should be able to have access to the current accounts only when it has the permission of a magistrate. This is a substantial difference. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Colleagues, I ask you to reflect on this. You are the majority and then you will do as you feel. The basic question is that we cannot call tax peace a measure in which - in fact - we put a gun to the temple of the citizen, the small business and anyone who is being investigated of this kind. [[Applause from Senator Conzatti.]] We discussed this with the minority rapporteur this afternoon. I ask you to reflect on the fact that this rule completely alters the meaning, even for you, of the tax decree. Please have the Finance Guard cleared by a magistrate, because ours is a rule of law. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Margiotta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u358	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u359	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u360	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, before we proceed to the vote on the amendment, I would like to make it clear that I did not understand it correctly before and, mistakenly, I gave the Group as an indication to vote in favour of amendment 16.0.300 (text 3/1), despite the real intention to vote against it. Forewarning that on amendment 16.0300 (text 3) the Democratic Party vote will be in favour. MODENA (FI-BP). That's the difference between us and PD! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Modena, please, you have already made your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u361	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u362	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u363	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, we too, having failed to get the message correctly, voted against Amendment 16.0300 (text 3/1), although we were in favour. For reasons contrary to those of the Democratic Party, we find this kind of great tax brother, which characterizes the approach adopted in the Commission, truly absurd. Therefore, I clarify the real intention of the Brothers of Italy Group to vote. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u364	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 16.0300 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to inform the House that an amendment by the rapporteur on motorway concessions, which has already been submitted to the Commission and which has been deemed admissible by the President of the Senate, has been proposed. The deadline for submission of any sub-amendments shall be 21.30. MALAN (FI-BP). Without warning it's not possible! If there's any shit to do, you have to do it face-to-face!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u365	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u366	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u367	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I believe that what we have said so far has clearly been of no use. The Government is tabling an amendment to the motorway concessions at 21.05 and you are giving us the time to subemend until 9.30 p.m. on such an important subject. We, not only ask to have until tomorrow morning, because our legislative offices must read and understand what filth the government proposes to us with this amendment. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] ; but we also call for the Commission to be convened both on sub-amendments and on this amendment. You can't think of going straight to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u368	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u369	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u370	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, we have not seen the amendment. It's 9:05. The amendment should, of course, return to the Commission. We have seen too much in this House today to think that we can see it again! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We have seen opinions given in this House without the justification of the 5th Commission. We have seen things that, Mr President, in order to make a movie quote, even on the bastions of Orion would not be possible to see! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Colleagues, there's a limit to everything. Not this one! Actually, that's not it! The Commission has the dignity of meeting and producing an amendment in a transparent way, which we do not even have in the meantime! There are ghost amendments in this House. We can't let that happen. Let the Commission meet and let us not give ourselves time for sub-amendments! We have no material to amend, Mr President! There is no amendment. That's enough, really. We've seen too much. Stop! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u371	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u372	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u373	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us forget about filth or anything else. The amendment has now been tabled because we have noticed that it is identical to what was in the Commission and that it has been wrongly withdrawn. We only noticed now that it's the same, the same and the same. I agree that the offices should be given time to submit, where appropriate, sub-amendments. I also understand that the 21.30 is too short a term. So, we're willing to postpone it. However, it is an identical amendment. It is coming now because we have noticed that it has been withdrawn from the Commission in the wrong way. Those who have been part of the Finance Commission, and here there are distinguished Commissioners, both of the Democratic Party and of Forza Italia, know that in the general confusion (because it was not easy) it is possible that something has escaped. That's why. There's no last-minute attempt to bring anything back. That is the only reason. Therefore, if the Presidency and the Groups agree, we give more time for the submission of any sub-amendments, but we do not create a case that, frankly, does not exist. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u374	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u375	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u376	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, let us return to what happened earlier. The Presidency must ensure, in the first place, that there is opposition. In fact, most people have now come to tell us this. President Romeo, however, knows that this is the same amendment that had escaped. But that is not the procedure. Also because, if you complain about the hands, what should we say in the face of amendments that enter, then disappear and then are re-submitted? I think, Mr President, that, in the meantime, it is truly incredible that, with a Chamber that was actually almost finished, because it was 9:05 p.m., you announced the presentation of the amendment that was tabled. I do not think, therefore, that there are any other avenues. You must give all the time available, and certainly not only half an hour, for submission of sub-amendments. I believe, however, that it is absolutely necessary that, in any case, the Commission and all the Members of the Commission take a look at it: not here in this House but, indeed, in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u377	I think we can agree that the 6th Commission will meet tomorrow morning to examine this amendment, so there is no need to give a deadline for the submission of sub-amendments. I'll ask the government representative if he wants to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u378	Mr President, in view of the scope of the amendment, it seems to me appropriate that the deadline be moved to 9 a.m. tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u379	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u380	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u381	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I confirm that, having taken note of the right demands of our constructive oppositions, tomorrow we shall convene the 6th Commission at 9 a.m. to examine the amendment. I hope that this proposal will be compatible with the timetable for the work of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u382	The Assembly shall be convened at 9.30 a.m. Of course, the budget committee will also have to be convened at 9 a.m. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u383	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u384	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u385	STEFANO (PD). Mr President, with this speech I would like to share with the House the expressions of solidarity and closeness to the territory of the Lower Salento on which, for several days, a wave of particularly violent bad weather hit, culminated the day before yesterday with a real tornado that swept away more than 20 kilometers of coast in the Cape of Leuca. It was a phenomenon of unprecedented destructive violence, recognized as an F2 that released winds at over 200 kilometers per hour, bringing down churches, isolated, many homes; it destroyed different tourist-receptive structures, productive settlements, not only agricultural, sunk dozens and dozens of boats, brought to their knees the circulation of local public transport convoys and entire city communities. Only a real miracle does not make us add to all this today the list of victims, because, only by chance, there were no victims. With this speech I wish to begin by thanking the mayors of the municipalities concerned, such as Tricase, Patù and Morciano, and the President of the Province of Lecce, who immediately started the rescue and civil protection machine and in record time set up a table to manage the emergency. But here I would also like to reiterate my willingness to be the bearer of the necessities of this territory and, above all, to ask this House, you, Mr President, and above all the Government (who has already escaped) to pay great attention to the demands that will come. The Salento is strong, tough and will rise quickly, it is true, but we also need the government and Parliament to give signs of closeness. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u386	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-63.ana.u387	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 28 November, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 21:17.
