ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 5 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 13 December. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u3	I communicate that the following draft law has been presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 135 of 14 December 2018, with urgent provisions on support and simplification for businesses and public administration" (989).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Conference of Leaders is still under way. The sitting will resume at the end of the work of the Conference itself. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 5.30 p.m. and resumed at 5.28 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of Leaders has adjusted the timetable of work in the light of the need, represented by the President of the 5th Commission, to postpone the start of work in the Assembly of the draft budget law. The discussion of the measure in the Assembly will therefore begin, when concluded by the Commission, on Thursday 20, at 5 p.m., in order to continue - as already planned - at meetings on Friday 21 and Saturday 22 December, if necessary, from 9.30 a.m. without closing hours.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u8	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, you took part, like us Group leaders, in the meeting at which we discussed the timetable for the work on the budget law, but I would like to share with the House the considerations that have been made, which are absolutely equanimous considerations on our part. The oppositions have expressed a profound discomfort, based above all on the fact that until now the Budget Commission has been convened and defied on Thursdays, Fridays, Saturdays, Sundays, Mondays and even today. The oppositions have shown an absolute willingness. They did not carry out obstructive activities. They collaborated, of course, in diversity and, sometimes, in the opposition of their respective political positions, in that a maneuver (which, in its approval at 31 December, separates us from a provisional exercise) could reach its destination. However, Mr President, let us not forget - and that is what we have communicated to the Government and to President Pesco, whom we thank for his willingness - that if the maneuver is not here, it is not yet here, but it is only a virtual product, this does not depend on oppositions. The oppositions have repeatedly repeated that what has been read in these days and which has been heard in the news, that is the possible reduction of GDP, the reduction of the deficit-GDP ratio for the years 2019 and following and the transformation of the deficit from 2.4 to 2.04, are, at the moment, only options. We oppositions cannot continue to go forward on the basis of hypothetical periods that are served by the Government, hypothetical periods mostly of unreality, because what we are told and promised the day before for the next day, the next day is not realized. We have therefore made two requests, which I strongly repeat. Of course, each of our colleagues in the opposition will speak on their own behalf, but there are two essential demands that we attach to the continuation of our loyal and willing cooperation, although in our opposition role, with the Government, as well as in the Commission and in this House. Firstly, we are calling for the Commission to audit Minister Tria. We have a set of amendments by the rapporteurs and a set of amendments by the Government which represent only a small part of the content of a maneuver whose variation will be in the order of six, seven billion. These amendments, which we have naively defined as offal in relation to the core business and the profound significance of the maneuver, have, however, also an economic value and must also find a budgetary stakeout. It is therefore not possible, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a majority, Mr President of the 5th Commission, to examine them, let alone vote on them, until Mr Tria in the Commission and - and this is the second request - President Conte in this House have come to give us the full scope of the manoeuvre. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] How much, that is, will be spent, how, where and by whom, with numbers, colleagues, majority, oppositions, finally clear, exact and that are able to pass the proof of verification of the General Accounting of the State. This is, in short, the message that we have transferred to the Conference of Leaders. We have been proposed by the Government a completely virtual term, always in that trend of hypothetical periods that become of unreality and that now, for us, are really and concretely unacceptable. We have been told that we will go to the House at 5 p.m. on Thursday, except, of course, that we have not yet finished examining the measure in the Commission. We, Mr President, have said no and voted against this timetable because we ask the Government and the majority to be serious: not for Parliament, not just for Parliament, but above all for the country, which is losing money and opportunities as a result of this great and unnecessary uncertainty. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u11	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, we too have voted against this timetable because what is happening in these hours, in these days, here in the Senate is absolutely unacceptable. It is unacceptable because the Commission has been prevented from working in these days: the votes were to begin on Saturday 15 December and Members were prevented from doing their duty, from deepening the issues within the maneuver. And why did all this happen? All this happened because one loves to talk about the maneuver: the majority and the government love to talk about the maneuver, but they love to do it out of this which is the House responsible for dealing with these issues. [[Applause from the PD Group]] There are proposals for reducing the deficit, for imposing the European Commission, but the Commission responsible, as provided for in the Constitution in Article 72, knows nothing about it; it is not informed by the Government. The government does not want to come and report to the Commission; we have asked for the presence of Minister Tria: he obviously does not want to put his face on us; he is clearly ashamed of what is happening in Brussels. Evidently, this majority's continuous backward marches on the commitments they had made in front of the Italians, who are not constantly and increasingly heavily respected, embarrass him. The same can be said of President Conte: we asked him to report back to the House as soon as possible to give us a general picture of the state of negotiations with the European Commission, of the backward steps that our Government had to take. Instead, nothing, we never receive availability. A few weeks ago we asked Minister Di Maio to come and report on the family business; they told us that he will then give us a date, and we know nothing about it anymore. They hope we forget about it. No, Minister Di Maio, we will not forget, just as we do not forget what is going on in these hours. We are trying to make an extra-parliamentary manoeuvre without involving the political forces, without having a deep debate within the Commission, as promised by the majority. At the last Conference of the Leaders we dictated and agreed with the majority precise rules; we wonder why they are not met in a methodical manner. The government and the majority have the courage to come and face the measures they are presenting; or perhaps they do not know them either, they continue to navigate in the dark, in the fog, in ignorance, and someone else said this maneuver to Italy in a shameful way, as has never happened in the past. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] Mr President, I come to the proposals for changing the timetable. We ask that we come to this House with the change to the DEF Update Note which - I remember - has not even been validated by the Parliamentary Budget Office. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We call for a change and a vote to be taken in this House before we can arrange for it. Then, once the maxi amendment has been tabled, we ask that we have time to submit it and the time, in the next few days, to debate the maneuver in the Commission. We are prepared to come to work on the 26th to vote on this maneuver in this House, after all due consideration, in an appropriate manner. The absence and unwillingness of Minister Tria and President Conte will lead us to demonstration gestures in this House. Therefore, the Democratic Party Group announces - I hope with other opposition forces - to occupy this House for two hours, after the completion of the work, to demonstrate to the Government and to the majority that it cannot be treated the Senate and Parliament in this shameful way. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u12	Thank you, Senator Marcucci, even if revolutionary gestures do not normally announce each other institutionally; but it's still okay. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I hope he didn't take it badly; it's a way to lighten the debate. MIRABELLI (PD). His comment is useless! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But why? The debate can be lightened.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u15	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, you have attended the Conference of the Leaders, and I believe you have also shared many of the issues that we have raised, which are very simple, colleagues, and which are necessary on the part of the opposition and on the part of every senator I address. I am referring to the need for clarity. Do you think it is possible that we, for days now - Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, Monday - have had continuous conflicting news, leaks of news, anticipations, agencies, without ever having an element of clarity to understand how the negotiations are proceeding or what are the elements on which the manoeuvre is being reset? Blessed are the majority leaders who are so certain, evidently: I hope for them that they have certainty and readiness. We first had the Secretary's statement that he practically said that the negotiations were over; then, however, it will be limited only and only to the two main measures, quota 100 and citizenship income. We have read and continue to read everything and the opposite of everything. What did we ask strangely, after for days we gave - President Pesco knows - all our cooperation? On the contrary, we have called for an advance discussion on some absolutely fundamental elements: each of us has indicated important elements on which it was possible, not only to start the comparison, but already to begin to prepare some solutions. Therefore, it is certainly not possible to accuse ourselves of doing obstructive practices. There was maximum cooperation. Now, however, it is time for this House to be informed, to be given information about what is going to be done and whether it is going to be done and how it is going to be done. Mr Marcucci's question is not a pilgrim. So, if there are these elements, we need a passage in this House to make some changes. Are there any changes to the balances? Do they get better? Worse? They improve in our opinion. So we should proceed to a change in the Update Note of the Economic and Finance Document. This is at least indispensable. Having said that, we had asked that Minister Tria be audited in the Budget Commission; we have come out of the Conference of Leaders and that is not clear yet: we do not know whether Minister Fraccaro or Minister Tria will arrive. What are we gonna do? Do we have to come with the Crozza cartel where Minister Tria asks for help? Are we gonna put on a sign to ask someone for help? What are we gonna do? Count is the Head of Government and he has rightly been referred to as the chief negotiating officer: come to this House and tell us exactly how things went. Did they go well? You should be happy, then, you should be here to say that we did it, that we found the balance. Our only concern - you know perfectly well - is not to make the country risk even the provisional exercise, so we cannot understand why we do not want to make sure that there is information and that Parliament is informed. All this would also be an element of clarity for you and for the country and the real possibility to continue in a swift manner. For these reasons, I repeat the request that Minister Tria report to the Commission and President Conte in this House; as far as we are concerned, we have no intention of passing on this request. I am also addressing a number of Members of the Commission who are sitting on the benches of the Government to say that Parliament's prerogatives always defend them, not only when you are in opposition, but also when you become a majority. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, FI-BP and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u18	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, first of all, I think we should start with a figure: the Government has presented a maneuver which has already dealt with a reading in the House, authorized in the balances by the parliamentary classrooms as per practice; it cannot therefore be said that at the moment there is no maneuver under discussion in the Commission. Then there were also amendments tabled by the rapporteur and the Government; I have heard of the need for an opinion from the General Accounting Office of the State; of course the government's amendments are already boiled down, otherwise they could not be tabled. We are not, therefore, talking about nothing, but about a maneuver that exists, exists and has predictions. There is no doubt that there is an interlocking with the Europe born when the maneuver was presented and this interlocking is leading to changes that the Commission will of course have heard as soon as it is finished. It is a little difficult to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance to come to the Commission in the course of the negotiations. [[Comments of Senator Marcucci]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u19	Please let my colleague continue. The others spoke in absolute tranquility.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u20	Patuanelli (M5S). It was also announced to the Commission by the Undersecretary Santangelo that he was prepared to come to the Commission at this time by Minister Tria, and of course he will do so. I believe that there are parts of the maneuver that can already be discussed and voted on in the debate in the Commission. I thank President Pesco for the work he is doing and I thank, as we have already done, all the oppositions that have contributed constructively, starting from their political positions, but without ever wanting to break the relationship and, indeed, showing themselves always prone to dialogue on the ways in which we will arrive in this House with the maneuver. We believe that proposing a timetable which, when completed in the Commission, provides for the debate in this House on Thursday on the draft budget law is nothing scandalous. I think there will be ways to get to the House on Thursday. Otherwise we will note that the Commission will need some more time. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u23	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to reiterate the fact that - and we say this to all the members of the minority - the Government has immediately taken an attitude of deep cooperation, respect and will to deepen and deal with the issues that the minority has brought to the attention of the Government with some amendments, so much so that you too have been asked to highlight some of them. There is also negotiation on these issues, which may be considered less important, but which are still demands coming from the minority. The fact that we have gone long with the times is simply dictated by a reason, always demanded by the minority. I am referring to the fact that this amendment amending balances is being examined in the Commission and not in this House. That is what you asked us to do. It is clear that, when the negotiations are over and the amendment is ready, we arrive at the Commission. There was full willingness of the majority to give you the time to examine it. Honestly, all this bailamme put up by the minority... [[Comments from the PD Group]] But why do I always have to be interrupted when I speak? [[Comments of Senator Bellanova]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u24	Listen, Romeo, your intervention can cause more interruptions, you continue. It's okay. Let Senator Romeo continue. It wasn't a big break. Go on.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u25	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). I have spoken to say that there is full readiness to give you the time to examine the amendment on the adjustment of balances. With the timetable, it has been said: if we can make it in time by Wednesday evening or Thursday morning, Thursday afternoon at 5 p.m. we will start the House; if we do not make it in time for the sale amendment to come later and you need more time to discuss it, the measure will arrive in the Chamber on Friday. BELLANOVA (PD). But what time? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Comrade, let him finish. Your Holding Company seems to me to have made a clear statement and you rely on your conclusions. VALENT (PD). You need time. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). There is, however, full willingness on the part of the majority to meet the opposition. What we do not understand is: do you want Minister Tria to come and explain the terms of the negotiation, but what negotiation is it if we do it in open papers? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Protests from the PD Group]] Negotiations aren't open-ended. The government will come when, in the end, there is agreement with Europe, also because the government does the negotiation and not the Parliament. [[Comments of Senator Malpezzi]] I'm saying there's full availability. Wait for the maxi amendment and you will have everything you have asked to date. Is it possible that we are available and you still get angry? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u26	They didn't get mad, Senator. They made a request.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u29	CIRIANI (FdI). I believe that the majority also recognise that oppositions - I am speaking for my Group - have had an institutional, collaborative and loyal attitude in the face of such a complex negotiation these days. The delay in approving the budget documents is not the responsibility of the opposition, but of a negotiation that extends due to the Government and those who have supported it for days and days. We have been waiting for days in the Commission to know what the real content of this move is, not the details of the amendments, which have only been delivered to us today. I would also like to point out, Mr President - as we also said at the Conference of the Leaders - that, among the amendments tabled, there are some of them of a clearly orderly nature which, in our opinion, should not therefore be allowed, but this is now a very minor aspect. What is absolutely important and priority for us, however, is to reaffirm that the Senate has the right, dare I say the duty, to evaluate, judge and amend budget documents and to do so with sufficient time, because otherwise it is a mockery, a mockery and I believe that the Senate does not need to be offended or deceived. As far as we are concerned, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are prepared to come to the Senate every day when the majority decides to do so, in order to hold a proper and thorough debate on the budgetary maneuver. Our goal is not, from opposition to junkyards, the provisional exercise, but simply the exercise of our right-obligation of control and verification. An hour ago, during the Conference of Leaders, the Undersecretary announced that the agreement between the Italian Government and the European Commission was reached and I have no reason to doubt that the Undersecretary will give incorrect information to the Senate. I wonder, therefore, and above all, if the agreement is reached, what prevents you from deciding that tomorrow, at the time you prefer, Mr Tria will come to the Commission to report on the agreement reached? If there is an agreement reached, what is the problem with the fact that tomorrow, I repeat, at the time you prefer (at 8:00 a.m., 8:00 p.m. or 6:00 p.m.), someone is worthy of reporting in the Senate on the contents of the agreement? Otherwise, we are allowed to suspect that you want to drag us until Thursday evening, and then tell us Friday morning that the maxi amendment comes to the Senate and the party ended like this. This would be an offense, not only for us in the opposition, but I also believe for my colleagues in the majority, that I suspect they know the content of the manoeuvre less than we do. Therefore, in the respect of all, the majority and the opposition, Mr President, I again formalise the request to the members of the Government, which I think is of common sense, that tomorrow - they also decide the time they prefer - the Minister should report to the Commission on the content of the agreement reached in Brussels. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u30	Colleagues, Minister Fraccaro asked for a brief clarification. I say now, Minister, that if your clarification is not very brief, it will reopen the debate. Please, you have the floor. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u31	Mr President, I would like to apologise to President Alberti Casellati and all the groups for not taking part in the Conference of the Leaders, although I had announced my presence, but I was committed, together with President Mattarella, to welcoming the body of our compatriot Antonio Megalizzi in Ciampino, who returned to Italy. [[The President and the Assembly stand. Applause.]] On this occasion we expressed to the family the condolences and closeness of the entire Government and Parliament. On the other hand, as far as the opposition's demands are concerned, which are absolutely acceptable, there is at this moment an important intercourse - I think we are all aware of this - between the Italian Government and Brussels, therefore the European Union and the European Commission. We talked about this in the Commission and in the Conference of the Leaders, and we spoke to President Conte and Minister Tria at the moment. The requests to be able to continue with information from all the Members who have spoken are requests which I personally share. I believe that the Commission cannot go on without clarification of the outcome of this speech. However, I would like to tell you a few timings, which we cannot ignore. Tomorrow morning at 9 a.m. there will be a meeting of European Commissioners and, most likely, only then will there be a formalisation of the Commission's opinion on the Italian Government's proposal on the maneuver and therefore the possibility of avoiding the infringement procedure. Obviously we will all have to wait for that moment, without necessarily revealing or revealing what the intercourse was, because otherwise there would be no possibility of comparison and a weighted decision on the part of the Commission. [[Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] I ask and ask the Government to be able to report back to the Commission or to the House when any kind of information is received from the Government, and to communicate, probably only after this meeting in Brussels, the letter which the Commission will have to send to the Italian Parliament. Therefore, the willingness of the President of the Council and Minister Tria is to come immediately to report to all of you, in order to ensure the centrality of Parliament and the possibility of continuing the work in an orderly manner on a matter as important as the maneuver, once the European Commission has communicated its position with regard to the proposal of the Italian Government. There is a great willingness on the part of the Government and the President of the Council and Minister Tria to relate to Parliament in the light of this intercourse. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u32	It seems to me that, with the Minister's statement, the request - because I believe it is accepted - for information from the President-in-Office of the Council is missing. I am asking, so that the petitioners now tell me, in a minute's time, whether they intend to repeat the request for a vote or whether the Minister's statement that he has accepted and assured me that the President of the Council will come to the Chamber as soon as the European Commission has given its ruling makes the need for a vote fail. Then there is Senator Marcucci's other request for the submission of an amendment to the Update Note to the DEF, which remains, unless there is a decision to ask no longer to put it to the vote. On this point I would like to have an answer in one minute; then, if there is a vote, there will be the opportunity for an explanation of vote. At the moment, I ask the senators who have spoken - like when they ask whether or not an amendment is withdrawn - whether they intend to reconfirm the request for a vote for the presence of the President of the Council in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u33	Mr President, first of all, it was you who made it clear that, if the Minister's speech had been meaningful, it would reopen the debate. Of course, I take note of your words and act accordingly. That said, Minister, you must not apologize. On the contrary, we thank you for the testimony you gave about this tragedy; ours was a sincere applause in institutional terms for what you did. He was, moreover, authoritatively represented by his Undersecretary, but, Minister, he said some very precise things and - I must say - repeated on more than one occasion. He said that this negotiation was over and that the amendment that you call mini and that you decide to withdraw on the advice of the European Commission concerns many billions of euros and therefore, it seems to me to be absolutely maxi. Today you tell us that we are waiting tomorrow for the communication on how the European Commission has rewritten our maneuver. This is what you are telling us, representing the Italian Government which had to go to Brussels outside to defend our interests. Now we have even reached the situation where you have the maneuver written down and which can only be discussed in Parliament after that. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] Minister, do you realize what you're telling us? You are saying that, until they have the authorization, Minister Tria and President Conte cannot come to this House and talk about the maneuver. That's what he's telling us! [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr President, I shall begin by concluding, and then speak again in the explanation of vote. At the meeting of the Conference of Leaders, we decided and President Conte's communications are not foreseen in the approved timetable. Mr President, I would therefore ask you to ensure that the Conference of Leaders is reconvened in order to change the timetable, with President Conte's communications scheduled for tomorrow afternoon. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We will be so pleased and we will not occupy this House, because at last there will be someone here to take responsibility for the shameful situation in which you have put our country. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u34	Mr President, Mr Fraccaro has come to explain to us that we are waiting for the European Commission's decision tomorrow and that President Conte will then be prepared to come and report back to this House. All right, that's exactly what we were asking for, even if in the near future. However, Mr President, I would like to point out to you that we will have to review some decisions taken by a majority earlier at the Conference of the Leaders. This is clear because it is necessary to provide for President Conte to report back to the House tomorrow afternoon.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u35	Mr President, I share the political views of my previous colleagues. We have lived a couple of months, probably also recording considerable economic losses to the detriment of all Italians, with a pull and a spring with the European Union, which has been faced with vigorous, and then return - it has been rightly said here - with the pits in the bag, making itself signalled the contents of the maneuver with the red and blue pencil. This mortifies us a little, because that is certainly not the goal we would have wanted to achieve. Let us return to the subject of the debate on the timetable. We hope to be able to conclude the calendar of Fate Indovino, with the forecast of the communications of President Conte, who will finally be able to clarify. Senator Mallegni pointed out something that struck us all: it is said that the content of the negotiations with Brussels cannot be revealed. But what is it, a secret of state? [[Comments from the M5S Group and Senator Romeo]] Excuse me, but what does it reveal? Minister, you must tell us. The maneuver that the Italian Parliament is to vote in the interests of the country has become a secret thing between you and the European Union, which you will perhaps communicate to us here with some omissis and dot, as is done with the interceptions. Therefore, Mr President, our common intention is to see the Conference of the Leaders reunited, because it is clear that the timetable of Brother Indivino has changed again and we must take note of it institutionally. In addition, President La Russa, I would like to draw your attention, as President pro tempore, to the fact that these amendments, these "fractures" that have been presented to us in small pieces before revealing the real orifical and mysterious content of this invisible maneuver, deal with omnibus arguments, because they contain everything. Therefore, I also urge on this occasion a careful assessment of the admissibility of these amendments as per the Rules of the Senate of the Republic. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u36	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education "Giovanni Minzoni" in Giugliano in Campania, in the province of Naples, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u37	In summary, it seems to me that the request for a vote to come and report to President Conte today, even considering that he cannot come tonight, has changed into a request for the convening of a new group leader which seems to me correct. President Alberti Casellati has already given me his availability, with a speed higher than that of the financial maneuver, for 7 p.m. tonight. A new Conference of Group Presidents will therefore take place and I believe that this is a good sign of the efficiency of this institution. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I therefore suspend the sitting until the end of the Conference of Leaders, scheduled to begin at 7 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 6.12 p.m. and resumed at 7.25 p.m.) The Conference of Heads of Group decided that at 12 noon tomorrow the Assembly will meet to inform the President of the Council of Ministers about the economic manoeuvre. Groups will be able to intervene for five minutes. The timetable already communicated to the Assembly concerning the discussion of the draft budget law remains to be confirmed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u40	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I note the willingness given by the President-in-Office of the Council: I believe that this is absolutely necessary and indispensable, so that Parliament and the Senate of the Republic return to the centre of action on the government's maneuver. I hope that the report that the President-in-Office of the Council will carry out tomorrow will be timely and informative on all aspects of the maneuver. I believe that a heavy vulnus has been created against Parliament. However, just to demonstrate our appreciation of the President-in-Office's willingness, we will give up the other requests for voting on the timetable and express our support for the timetable just announced to the House, but above all we will stress that, following our strong request to have the President of the Council here, the timetable has been changed. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u43	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, as we have seen, the demands we made were not only reasonable, but aimed at defending the possibility of this House having all the information necessary to proceed with the adoption of the draft budget law. I am sorry, Mr President, to note that we have arrived only after having insisted very much, even at the previous Conference of Leaders, to succeed in achieving what was in some way necessary. As far as we are concerned, tomorrow there will be information and therefore the commitment to have all the elements to proceed quickly to the work of the Budget Commission. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u46	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, as far as we are concerned, I would like to thank the Government and the President-in-Office of the Council for giving us this willingness. It would not have been possible to do otherwise; we could not have continued. We have said this and we repeat it: the maneuver must have a defined perimeter, the sums that are being discussed, in a negotiation which unfortunately does not concern us and which is taking place outside these parliamentary classrooms, are too large and too large not to be the subject of a stop in Parliament. We are talking about six, seven billion, which could not fail to reflect on the current work of a Parliament that would not be able to examine the overall picture. That is why we believe it is essential for the President-in-Office of the Council to tell us something significant, what the parameters of the negotiations have been, and what we could do when we deal with this budget law. Above all, we expect, as promised to us (I repeat, the Government has given its willingness and we have, by responsible oppositions such as we are, reciprocated without obstructionist attitudes), that the Government, when in the person of the President of the Council will define the perimeter of the maneuver, will give us the necessary time and something more than enough to make our voice heard of oppositions and submit amendments in appropriate times. This is what we have been saying for a week; it is very important that the availability of content also corresponds to the availability of the democratic activity of this Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u49	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, we welcome the Government's proposal that President Conte will report to the House tomorrow. I am especially pleased that the Government accepted and understood that it was necessary to suspend the work of the 5th Commission until after the intervention of the President of the Council. I am sure that the work of the 5th Commission will then go ahead and we will be able to close it by the deadline set for Thursday's House.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u52	SICLARI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot help but bring to this House today the call for help and the scream of pain coming from 4,500 workers, who have been protesting since yesterday in Calabria (in Cosenza, Catanzaro, Reggio Calabria, Vibo Valentia, Lamezia and Crotone) and who risk losing their jobs on 31 December. I would ask Minister Tria to convene an urgent technical table with the trade union acronyms representing the 4,500 workers, former LSU-LPU, who are likely to lose their jobs. It is a very important social emergency, which must be dealt with in a time that can only be tomorrow, because the budget law must provide at least the funds to give these families a minimum of stability. We can't leave young boys with parents who don't work. In Calabria it is impossible to find work. I would ask you to accept the amendments which, at my first signature, were tabled by the Forza Italia Group. Or, since it is not a party matter for us, but a social emergency, we ask that the Government take charge of this battle of civilization for Calabria and carry it forward, because 4,500 people will never find work in Calabria again, after twenty years of fixed-term contracts and without contributions paid for many years. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It's a great injustice. I ask you on behalf of all Calabrians. We cannot lose the dignity of Italian citizens. I ask you to intervene immediately. I ask Minister Tria and the President of the Count Council. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u53	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-73.ana.u54	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 19 December, at 12 noon, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.38.
