ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting on 26 July. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law 648. The rapporteur, Senator Corbetta, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u5	Mr President, on 2 July 2018, the Council of Ministers issued a decree-law containing urgent provisions on the reorganization of the powers of the Ministries of Cultural Heritage and Activities, Tourism, Food and Forestry Agricultural Policies and the Environment, and on the protection of the territory and the sea, as well as on the subject of family and disability. The government's macro-areas of intervention are four and, in a nutshell, the content is as follows. The first area is the function of tourism, which is transferred from the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism to the Ministry of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies. The first will be called the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities, the second Ministry of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies and Tourism. The second area concerns the role of environmental emergency and countering hydrogeological failure, soil protection and security and the development of water infrastructure; it is transferred from the Presidency of the Council of Ministers to the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea. The third area concerns the functions of guidance and coordination in matters of family, adoption, childhood and adolescence and disability and is implemented and organised by the Ministry of Family and Disability and the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Finally, in the fourth area, there is provision for the reorganization of other functions in the field of school construction and emergency construction. Entering into detail, the decree-law consists of five articles. The first transfer, since the entry into force of the decree-law, the competence in the matter of tourism from MIBACT to the Ministry of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies; while, from 1 January 2019, the human resources, instrumental and financial, including residual management, of the Directorate-General for Tourism are also transferred. Paragraph 2 of the same article, in relation to the provisions of the previous paragraph, provides for the abolition of the Directorate-General for Tourism of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism and establishes the Department of Tourism at the Ministry of Agricultural Policies. Paragraph 3 adapts and coordinates Legislative Decree No. 300 of 30 July 1999, to the news provided for in the preceding paragraphs. Paragraphs 4 and 5 provide for the automatic adaptation, wherever they are used, of the respective names of the ministries involved. Paragraph 6 provides for the modification of the name and functions of the School of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, in the School of Cultural Heritage and Activities, leaving to MIBAC the relative powers and resources necessary for its operation, indicating the period of sixty days from the entry into force of the decree to modify the statute of the School. Paragraph 7 concerns staff. Within forty-five days of the conversion into law of the decree-law, by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, the transfer of staff and resources must be carried out. The paragraph regulates, moreover, from the date of entry into force of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, the cessation of some legal relations in progress between the Directorate-General for Tourism of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and the society in house ALES and, in any case, of the plans or conventions concluded by it. Paragraph 8 provides that the maximum number of 25 general management offices at MIBAC will remain unchanged. Therefore, as a result of the amendments, it provides for an increase in a general management post, the cost of which is offset by the abolition of a number of non-general management posts which are financially equivalent. It also provides that, by decree of the President of the Republic, the Government adapts the organic endowments of MIBAC and the Ministry of Agricultural and Forestry Policies. Article 2, in the context of the reorganization of the competences of the Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, provides, in paragraph 1, the transfer to the Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea of the functions exercised by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers in the matter of coordination and monitoring of the interventions of environmental emergency, aimed at guaranteeing food safety in Campania and monitoring, also of sanitary type, in Campania and in the municipalities of Taranto and Statte. Paragraph 2 provides for a series of regulatory changes, in relation to the provisions of paragraph 1, providing that the presidency of the Interministerial Committee and the Commission for the identification or strengthening of actions and interventions to prevent environmental damage and environmental damage in Campania are the prerogative of the Ministry of the Environment. Paragraph 3 also assigns to the Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea the functions already attributed to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers in the matter of countering the hydrogeological failure, of defense and safety of the soil and of development of water infrastructures, thus placing some textual modifications including the abolition of the mission structure at the Presidency of the Italian CouncilSicura. Paragraph 4 adds a function to those of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea: promotion policies for the circular economy and the efficient use of resources and coordination of measures to combat and control environmental damage and to restore the safety of polluted sites. Paragraph 5 provides that, by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, the precise quantification of the necessary financial resources shall be provided. Paragraph 6 provides the necessary cover for the year 2018 by reassigning the resources allocated by the Presidency of the Council to the Ministry of the Environment and for the three-year period 2019-2021 refers to the budget law. Article 3 provides for the reorganisation of the management and coordination functions of the President of the Council of Ministers on family matters, adoptions, childhood, adolescence and disability. It assigns to the Presidency of the Council, that is to say to the Ministry for the Family and Disability, a series of competences in the matter of: policies for the family in its components generational and relational problems; functions of coordination of policies aimed at the protection of the rights and the promotion of the well-being of the family; interventions for the support of motherhood and fatherhood; reconciliation of working times and times of care of the family; measures to support the family, parenthood and birth, also in order to fight the demographic crisis; activities concerning the National Observatory on the family. In this context, the Presidency of the Council exercises: the management of financial resources relating to family policies and support for the birth rate and, in particular, the management of the funds provided for in this area. In addition, according to the above-mentioned procedures, the functions of directing and coordinating policies for adoptions, including international, of Italian and foreign minors, and the functions of directing and coordinating policies for childhood and adolescence, also with reference to the development of socio-educational services for early childhood, are also attributed. They are also assigned to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and, as an alternative, to the Delegated Minister for the Family and Disabilities, functions of guidance and coordination on policies for people with disabilities, including those for school inclusion, accessibility and mobility. Paragraph 2, in order to promote the functions of direction and coordination in matters of policies for the family, makes modifications to the law of stability of 2016 in the matter of the Charter of the family, providing that the eventual adoption of new criteria and modalities of release of the same will be established by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers or, alternatively, of the Minister for the family and the disability, in agreement with the Minister of the job and the social policies, with the Minister of the economy and the finances and with the Minister of the economic development. Paragraph 3 brings the organisation of the National Conference on Childhood back to the Department for Family Policies of the Presidency of the Council. Paragraph 7 provides for a reduction of the Fund for structural investments of economic policy of 250,000 euros for the year 2018 and of 500,000 euros from the year 2019 to ensure the allocation of equal resources to the operation of the National Observatory on the condition of persons with disabilities. Article 4 announces the rules on the performance of the functions related to the realization of the Casa Italia project and the interventions of school construction, and assigns and reorganizes other competences. Paragraph 1 deletes the provision that established by law a special Department of Casa Italia at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Paragraph 2 provides that the resources managed by the suppressed Department and intended for reconstruction interventions in the municipalities are paid at the entry of the State budget to be reallocated to the Single Fund for School Building for the financing of the vulnerability checks of school buildings falling within the seismic zone 1. Paragraph 3 provides for amendments to the fiscal law for the year 2017 and for the three-year period 2017-2019. In particular, he moved from the Presidency of the Council (Mission structure for coordination and impetus in the implementation of redevelopment of school buildings) to the Ministry of Education, University and Research to receive from local authorities the communication of financial spaces intended for school building interventions. Article 5 provides that the decree-law shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u6	The minority rapporteur, Senator Malpezzi, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u7	Mr President, the first Commission has examined for the parties concerned Decree-Law No 86 of 12 July 2018 laying down urgent provisions on the reorganisation of the powers of the Ministries of Cultural Heritage and Activities, Tourism, Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies, and the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, as well as on family and disability. The use of the instrument of the decree-law - and this, Mr President, we want to emphasize because we think it is absolutely important - forced the Commission to examine the text in very short terms, greatly limiting the possibility of developing a detailed debate in the Commission on the meaning and functionality of the proposed amendments. So much so that - I stress this several times - the opposition did not understand many of the choices that were made, because there was no opportunity to discuss them. The legislative investigation in the Commission comes out so mortified and severely limited on an object, such as that of the organization and powers of the Ministries, that - I remember for those who had lost it - are explicitly assigned to the law by the Constitutional Charter, so it is up to the parliamentarians and the Commissions. They marvel at the political forces of the present majority, which had also promised in this House at the time of its inauguration, including by adhering to the recent reform of the Senate Rules of Procedure, a renewed centrality of the Commission's activities, within the framework of a renewed, equally important, centrality of the parliamentary institution in the exercise of its legislative function. On the contrary, it seems to us that there is an abuse, without any modesty, of the urgent decree which is not useful, inappropriate and in clear violation of the constitutional dictation. Sorry because those who in the recent past have been defending the role of defender of the Republican Constitution, opposing proposals for revision that promoted a faster legislative process, today is instead intent to crowd the work of the Chambers of decree-laws in conversion in contempt of the prerogatives of the Chambers on the legislative function. The Commission's work, we regret to say, Mr President, has become so hasty. The hearings have been reduced to a single, very brief morning, and the House today is forced to examine and vote without further examination. I hope that, even with regard to the amendments that we will then be discussing, we will have to go into more detail on the part of all our fellow Members, because there is a lack of those assessments of the alternative proposals that we have continually made and forcefully, starting from the preliminary ruling, that only a serious and open examination of the ordinary draft laws can ensure. In this context, however, there have been significant doubts as to the constitutional legitimacy of the measure under consideration for the absence of the essential requirements for the use of the instrument of the decree-law, those prerequisites - we remember that the decree-law acts when there are needs and urgencys - of necessity and urgency indispensable for its legitimate use. Where are they? We have not really found them here and it is not enough, we regret to say, the mere declaration of necessity and urgency to justify the adoption of a decree-law if, as, instead, in this measure under consideration, the content of the decree is absolutely lacking in the requirements laid down in Article 77 of the Constitution. In the decree-law in question, therefore, there is no objective response to this necessity and urgency, in the provisions referred to in the first three articles, where it is in fact only stated. With reference to Article 1, the alleged nature of extraordinary necessity and urgency of the transfer to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry of the functions exercised by the Ministry of Heritage, Cultural Activities and Tourism in the field of tourism, as clearly stated in the technical and regulatory report, would serve to facilitate the rapid launch of an integrated policy for the enhancement of Made in Italy. It is a completely inconsistent motivation that shows, on the contrary, how the transfer could easily have been contained in a very normal ordinary bill. With regard to Articles 2 and 3, the necessity and urgency which should justify the inclusion of the rules in the decree is in no way justified and, with regard to Article 4, the requirements of necessity and urgency are not - I tell you, President - even affirmed. The reorganization of the powers of the Ministries is certainly not an extraordinary event, so much so that the definition of the powers of the Ministries - I have already said it before and here I repeat - is reserved to the law from the Constitution to article 95, third paragraph. It is clear, then, that there is no case of extraordinary necessity or urgency here and we could have easily proceeded with the normal legislative process. Obviously, this Government has a clear and precise will to expropriate Parliament from its legislative powers. With regard to the merit of the measure, the reason underlying Article 1 - I say this but, if there had been more time to debate, maybe we would have understood it too - that provides for the transfer to the Ministry of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies of the functions exercised by the Ministry of Heritage, Cultural Activities and Tourism in the field of tourism is absolutely incomprehensible, considering that, in this way, the link, fundamental for our country, between tourism and culture is missing. It is equally unbelievable, we will never tire of saying it, defining the Ministry of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies - as I have read before and is described in the technical report - Ministry of the Made in Italy for the simple reason that if the Government's intention had really been to include tourism among the strategic subjects for the economic development of the country, the Ministry of reference would have to be, of course, that of economic development, as confirms, moreover, the allocation of the matter of tourism to the Commissions of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic to which the economic development refers. And it is no coincidence, Mr President, that it was one of our proposals as an alternative to what is required by the decree-law. In fact, we planned the transfer to the Ministry of Economic Development of the functions exercised by the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities in the field of tourism, precisely because at least we would understand the reasons and we would have been absolutely adherent to the illustrative and technical report; which is not today. Finally, the reason for transferring the competence of tourism to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy cannot even lie in the personal powers of the Minister, who - we remember - is still a protempore Minister. It would be completely illegitimate to decide the powers and, consequently, the organization of a Ministry and the allocation of its resources, on the basis of the supposed competences of a Minister within the framework of a merely partitioning logic, in our opinion, of the powers within a composite, but rather balanced, parliamentary majority. In the sense that no one beats you on the partitions. It is therefore hoped that further consideration will be given to this issue in order to avoid a reorganisation which meets political needs - and this is the real concern - rather than the objective of ensuring an orderly and efficient institutional set-up. Article 2 lays down the powers of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea. More specifically, paragraphs 1 and 2 of the article assign to the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea the functions currently exercised by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers on the coordination and monitoring of environmental emergency interventions, in particular on the so-called Land of Fires, aimed at ensuring agri-food safety in Campania, as well as monitoring activities, including of a health type, in the same territories. Article 2, paragraph 3, assigns to the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea the tasks of matter in contrast to the hydrogeological failure to defend and secure the soil and the development of water infrastructures, exercised during the previous legislature through a special mission structure of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, currently eliminated. [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u8	Let's give it a few more seconds. Please come to the conclusion, Senator Malpezzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u9	MALPEZZI, minority rapporteur. As well as the school building mission structure has been eliminated. Impressions that we cannot comprehend, considering that they were efficient structures, capable of making connections and coordination between local authorities and administrations. Again, they seem dangerous... president. Again, maybe not. It's okay. Thank you. [[Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] It is also necessary to learn not to read the report to the full and to close occasionally with one's own words. Please conclude. MALPEZZI, minority rapporteur. Mr President, I assure you that I will not read the report to the full, but I would like to keep to the documents the danger of the provisions of Article 3, concerning the amalgamation of functions relating to persons with disabilities, as we have already pointed out, and also those relating to the recurring reference to the family exclusively to the singular, more appropriate for us... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u10	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Battistoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u11	Illustrated President, authoritative members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law in question introduces urgent provisions on the reorganization of the powers of the Ministries. With regard to the use of this instrument, which should operate in the perimeter of urgency, many Members have already had the opportunity to express the right objections which I will not repeat in my speech, sharing them. On the other hand, I will overlook the fact that while it is true that this measure redesigns the competences of the various sectors and departments, it is equally true that the text under consideration does not put a penny of euro in it. This leads us to believe, for example, that the competences of tourism in agriculture will trigger a greater turnover for the sector, but we must abandon ourselves to trust, not being specified how, when and why. In particular, to transfer to a special Department of the Ministry of Agricultural Policies the functions in the field of tourism, with the relative human resources, instrumental and financial and the necessary consequent regulatory changes, regarding the supervised bodies, seems to move in the direction of debasering the importance of it. For this reason, in addition to the exceptions that will follow, it deserves to be addressed also the issue related to the signals that we want to send inside and outside our institutions and the country. What should be expected of a Government of change is at least the overcoming, in an articulated manner, of any obstacle or resistance, such as that of bureaucracy. On the other hand, unfortunately, we are faced with a measure that brings into dowry the usual problems relating to ministerial employees to be transferred from Ministry to Ministry, without ever talking about productivity or at least planning. Again: the skills that concern tourism, now merged with the Department of Agriculture, lead to some reflections. Briefly, I remind my colleagues that the Ministry of Tourism and Entertainment was established in 1959, then repealed in 1993 and then reconstituted again by the Berlusconi Government in 2009, the only Government with the foresight to understand that a country like Italy, on whose GDP tourism affects more than 12%, needs a Ministry of Tourism. And look, I do not say this in order to be controversial, but, if we assume the burden and the honor of representing the citizens and even more to govern this country, we need courage, not fear, fragility and uncertainty of this Government, which declares that it wants to transfer competences from one Ministry to another, and then one day perhaps give tourism the dignity of Ministry to itself, which instead deserves. What is lacking, now more than ever, is the insight to look to the future and to the measures to be implemented, in a priori and not a posteriori. What one would expect from the Government of change and participation is that one would stick to what was subscribed to in the Government contract, which, in point 26, brings back the addresses for tourism. I quote: A country like Italy cannot fail to have a Ministry of Tourism, which cannot be just a direction of another Ministry, but needs centrality, governance and competence, with a vision and mission consistent with the great growth goals that our Country can achieve. This is written in the government contract. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Then I ask myself and ask the government: do we need to support the view that this transition to the Ministry of Agricultural Policy is to make sense of the Minister's competence? If this were the case, then, following the rituals of choice, that the Ministry of Tourism should be set up, headed by Minister Centinario. The position of this opposition, the position of Forza Italia is clear and determined, and it is the data that indicates it. Tourism - as I mentioned earlier - is worth more than 12% of gross domestic product and has a more than significant weight on the country's economy, with about two and a half million citizens working in this sector, animated by more than 650,000 companies. The gross domestic product of agriculture, on the other hand, fell - alas - to 28 billion in 2017 and was the only sector with a fall of 4.4 percent and -1.2 percent on employment. At this point it is natural to ask whether, even, a combination of tourism in the Department of Agriculture cannot lead to a slowdown in a sector, such as tourism, which on the contrary has experienced an excellent growth. Tourism is not only agriturismo, as agriculture is not and will never be only agriturismo. Meeting them is a good idea, but confusing them would mean having no ideas. We know that Italy boasts, in all our regions, a historical, artistic, archaeological and landscape heritage, the result of the numerous civilizations flourished in the millennia on our territory and in the long and enduring interaction between man and nature. We know that the culture of Italian hospitality is indisputable and I speak not only of hoteliers and restaurateurs, but of all exhibitors who live daily in our villages, our metropolis and our cities. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I believe that there is a need for a breakthrough, therefore, that strengthens Italy as a widespread museum; that it has the strength to propose new destinations to foreign tourists and that it relaunches the leadership in our country on the world market, as an epicenter of sustainable and quality tourism, able to be an instrument of economic and social well-being for all. It must also be borne in mind that the composition of the expenditure of travellers has changed and sees, yes, a significant increase in the amount for accommodation, but also that of related services. Therefore, you should focus on new trade agreements with foreign countries and help, with real structural plans, companies that offer additional services for our tourists, who instead, to date, support alone these investments that are good for the country. The development model that should be imagined for tourism should be proposed as a timely correspondence between objectives and resources, according to a form of horizontal interdependence, recovering, indeed re-evaluing, in a territorial context at different levels not homogeneous like ours, the active involvement of operators and users. In other words, the challenge facing the tourism sector today is ambitious: to govern a complex supply system in an increasingly dynamic market in rapid and constant evolution, trying to affirm Italy's leadership as the country par excellence that travelers lovers of art, culture, fashion, environment and food and wine should visit. And how can it be won if not with a Ministry that only deals with this? We have already meant it to the minister Centinario: the agricultural sector, fundamental for our country, already suffers from ancient issues and structural problems, to which its total attention should be devoted. I do not think, therefore, that he can find the time and resources to deal with a delegation that remains too far from this sector. Unless, of course, you think that in order to promote Italian tourism, your chirping in the ether is enough. Enough with the hesitations. Even if the Government believes that it wants to reach the obvious need to set up a Ministry of Tourism, that it does so now and does not force us to this demeaning spectacle of the policy of change, that lives in deferred between a contract, an announcement and its opposite. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Renzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u12	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I think this measure is very important, unlike many people imagine. Mr President, on the night of the definition of the decree-law, I witnessed an important direct Facebook of the Minister of the Environment, who, with a moved voice, explained that he was writing history at that time. Now we have lost a bit of the rhythm because the speed and intensity with which the Government is writing history are genuinely worthy of note, for us demos, history writes the Churchills and Mandela, we must get used to thinking that, for others, the Costa and Di Maio write it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The key element of this measure, according to Minister Costa, was the focus on environmental issues. I leave any argument on the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Disability and I merely consider and leave to the acts of this Parliament, not yet obsolete, the consideration of what has been done in these four years. With this Government and with this decree-law we put the word end to the mission units called ItalySicura. This decree-law does not put a penny in more money on school building or hydrogeological risk; if this happened, we would be the first to applaud the majority. If, in other words, there is an increase in money in the sectors of school construction and the fight against hydrogeological risk, we will be on your side. But you did not do this, gentlemen of the government, whom I address through the President of the Senate: you have deleted structures, born four years ago, as the first gesture of our Government, structures that have 9 billion yards in their belly in one case and 7 billion in another, strictly bipartisan structures. Ask the President of the Liguria Region if the mission unit ItaliaSicura has been useful for Bisagno. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And I assure you that the President of the Liguria Region is not a dangerous comrade or a communist subversive. Ask the local administrators of the League, like all the other sides, if you have started to put money back - for me it is still little - on school building. Those who made the mayor - there are in this House - know what this intervention meant about mission units. So, Minister Costa made history by erasing these mission units. I would simply like to say that we do not share this choice. I would like to say this without any controversy, thanking those who have worked in this sector, women and men, engineers, geometries, architects and masons who have worked in this sector over the years, and saying that an opportunity has been missed. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Those of the Members of the 5 Star Movement and of the League, but also of the oppositions, were in this House in the last parliamentary term - I was only on the side of the Government and not for the entire legislature - will remember, you know, Mr President, that it was not a particularly relaxed legislature in the tones between oppositions and the majority of the time. There was only one moment, at least in the three years when I had some responsibility in which, thanks to everyone, the climate was quiet and shared. My colleagues who were senators will correct me also in the last parliamentary term: for me it was when Renzo Piano spoke in this Chamber, who told us about the Casa Italia project and reminded all of us that that project needed an ultra-decent time horizon to unfold its affections. All the political forces said in that debate: yes, we will keep Casa Italia whoever wins the next election. In this decree-law, in which history is made, Casa Italia is cancelled and I think it is a missed opportunity, first of all for our children. Friends of the League, let me tell you with a joke that you used the ruppa in the wrong direction! [[Applause from the PD Group]] You had imagined, proclaimed and won the election by saying that you would demolish the Fornero law, but you demolished the mission units on school and hydrogeological risk. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You had to make citizenship income and make the unemployment decree; you had to block taxes, but you're blocking ILVA. I think this debate does not make history. We, at best, can do the stories on Instagram, we don't have the strength of Minister Costa, but it can be important to put some firm points. Today the President of the Council is in Washington and the White House, in front of the President of the United States of America, will say yes to the TAP, perhaps tomorrow some former MP from a Guatemalan square will say no to the TAP in front of YouTube. Today Minister Salvini will give solidarity to the policemen and police attacked in the TAV yards and we will be with Minister Salvini when he will give solidarity to the policemen and police attacked in the TAV yards. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] And we would like to be with Minister Salvini when he will give solidarity to those Italian citizens with different skin colors who are attacked in these hours with someone who says there is no emergency. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] We would like to give solidarity to Mr Salvini when he takes that side, but there will also be another Minister on the TAV who will focus and say no, we still have to decide. Then, Mr President of the Senate, we are experiencing a strange phase in which certain choices affect and affect the future of our stories and lives. I think that this majority has every right to choose the people it believes in the places where the law provides that those responsible, for example, in mission units would have had the opportunity to indicate new professionalism, it is not the presidency of the RAI, where by law it is necessary to have a higher majority than the government supports and if it is indicated to the presidency of the RAI one that has as personal characteristics that to speak ill of the President of the Republic, to be against Europe, to question vaccines, then it is not surprising that, according to law, we say to do without us. You can't be surprised at that. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] In this case, however, it would have sufficed to choose an authoritative name and the Government could have indicated a new responsible for the mission unit. It has not happened, Mr President, and today what was our first choice, with Mr Delrio, to make two mission units, one for school and one for hydrogeological risk, becomes the first thing you have deleted. I hope from the bottom of my heart, with great respect for my colleagues in the majority and with even greater respect for our children, that it will not be your first regret in the coming months. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u13	Senator Vallardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Government, Minister, before speaking on the subject of the reform of the Ministries, I would like to say a few words to my colleague, Senator Renzi, simply by pointing out that I have been mayor for twenty years, uninterruptedly, in different municipalities since 1995 and I stopped last year and I must say that all these roboating, scenic and glittering effects that you say I have not seen them, absolutely. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] I have certainly seen - but this is beyond political membership - the considerable cuts that have affected all the mayors, not only those of the League, of all political colors: the cuts in transfers to local authorities, yes. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] COLLINA (PD). President, can you do that? Do you have to answer directly? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Talk to the Presidency, please. It can also indirectly talk to other people, but through the Presidency, it is not a private interview. Mr Vallardi (L-SP). Yes, Mr President, you are absolutely right. I may have a bit of a stiff neck, but I will try to make it right. Turning back to the subject, we are discussing today the opportunity to bring together agriculture and tourism, which, technically, if we want to get into the topic, passes from cultural goods to the Ministry of Agriculture. The debate in the Commission has clearly shown that we do not all agree, we have just heard the intervention of Senator Battistoni of the Forza Italia Group, who, with his distinctions, does not agree and Senator Renzi, according to whom we have understood that this reform really does not work. I believe, however, that we must look ahead, because with this measure comes a great Ministry, a great Ministry of Agriculture, a great Ministry of Tourism, which can give us great opportunities. In fact, not only agriculture, but the same food and wine have been living happily with culture for years. In this context, we are talking about a package of about 200 million tourists arriving every year in our country, not only to look at the natural beauties - the art galleries, the museums, the excavations - but also often to take advantage of our ability in the culinary and agri-food sector. All over our country are distributed and we find excellence: from the Dolomites - which, as we all know, are UNESCO World Heritage - to the Valley of the Temples in Sicily, there is a whole territory to visit, admire, appreciate and value. People come to Italy gladly, we know, because ours is actually the Belpaese. All these people, all these tourists will have to give hospitality; all these people will have to feed and make them appreciate our food and wine skills. Ours is a consolidated reality: it is a consolidated reality that many tourists very often choose only and exclusively food and wine routes. It is well known that, among other things, our country is famous all over the world for its excellent ability to eat and do it well, especially. It is no coincidence that since 2010 the Mediterranean diet has been recognized as an intangible heritage of humanity, which is certainly a pride for our country, which manages to offer its visitors 809 between PDO, PGI, STG, among which is clearly included also the great variety of wines. In this regard - although I do not have to say it, because it is clearly aware of everyone - I remember that wines are a very important part of our ability to do agriculture. If we want to go into detail, we have 4,700 regional typicalities and this makes us understand the strength that our agriculture and our farmers have always been able to put on the field. It is only through the enhancement and widespread offer of all this huge biodiversity of products that we will be able to overcome the challenge of tourist accommodation: compared to other countries, our agriculture is a strength for the food and wine sector. In this direction, enhancing the small but good productions of our farmers, the League presented a bill containing: Rules for the valorization of small local productions. We have presented it precisely these days, in order to allow farmers to sell their products directly, thus finally freeing themselves from the grip of the traders, who often and willingly speculate on the product and the work of our farmers. With this measure we will certainly be able to circumvent the constraints of the European community, which unfortunately still do not allow us to make a real labelling law, which allows the consumer to know with certainty the origin of a certain kind of food, who produced it and how and when it was supplied. Wine tourism and related receptiveness have enormous potential. Let's just think about the induct of food souvenirs: I'm talking about ham, cold cuts and cheese. These are the things that tourists want to take home; it is difficult to take home a brick of the Colosseum or a historical relic - I say it with irony - while a salume, a ham or any other product of our gastronomy tourists gladly take home. It is an induced one that is growing in a huge way. We know that the agritourism sector in recent years is growing by about 10 percent annually. We are talking about more than 23,000 farmhouses in a country like ours that, with its 8,000 kilometers of coastline, is second to none, not only for the products related to agriculture but also for the beach receptiveness and for the fishing sector, regarding which we certainly have a lot to say. What do we need? You have to believe it and work in the right direction. The reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture and Tourism, in fact, Mr President, has already been implemented by citizens, tourists, without even waiting for the work of this House. The PD and Forza Italia, a bit like the good manzoni's memory, say that this marriage does not have to be done. On the other hand, I believe - and I am addressing the Government, specifically Minister Centinario - that we must move forward, because the road is the right one. I repeat: agriculture and tourism are in fact already together, the citizens have decided so. All ahead, therefore, the Italians ask us to do so. For several years in our country agriculture needed clear ideas that finally arrived with the new proposals of this Government; they arrived with the program of the minister Centinario. We at the League will support him surely and convincingly. Good job, Minister. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u15	Senator La Pietra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are discussing technically can be described as simple, since it is in fact a transfer of powers from one Ministry to another or from the Presidency of the Council to another, with the corresponding transfers of staff and resources. All this seems - and I stress: it seems - without increasing costs to the State. I would like to point out that actual costs are often measured after the measures have come into force, including in terms of efficiency and waste, as these changes very often have greater negative consequences than expected. What is different, however, is whether we are going to analyse the measure at political level. I would like to make a general point, starting with the analysis of Article 1, which provides for the transfer of skills on tourism. In this regard, we cannot fail to point out that the term "change" can be translated into parking, into ageing. Those who want to be more romantic, could rename it with the cat paddle "we change everything because nothing changes": nothing different from the old politics. The granitic government contract, the new method of politics surrenders to the manual Cencelli. I read: "A country like Italy cannot fail to have a Ministry of Tourism, which cannot be just a direction of another Ministry." This is the text written in the government contract, so flagship by the leader of the 5 Stars, Mr Di Maio, as the novelty of the century, a new way of doing politics, the great turning point, which perhaps you have approached with too much superficiality and has led you immediately off the road. So, for reasons of Realpolitik, you do exactly the opposite of what you wrote. Colleagues, we are not scandalized, but we simply take note of the new situation that has arisen, and we hope that from now on those who rise to moralism will do so with more attention. However, I would like to stress that, compared to what is stated in the contract, referring specifically to the part I have just mentioned and to the entire paragraph relating to the tourism of the Government contract, Brothers of Italy has a positive overall judgment, because the various proposals aim to combat unfair competition, abuses and foreign agencies that exploit our heritage. We are also in favour of the introduction of the Ministry of Tourism. Today, however, we are discussing a measure which, in its initial part, wants to remove from the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities the delegations on tourism in order to entrust them to the Ministry of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies. Certainly at the beginning we had some doubts, also for a general idea of tourism strongly linked to the artistic, archaeological and historical heritage of which our country is rich. However, if we go to analyze how complex the tourist system as a whole is, we discover that cultural tourism is one of the many tourism that our country can offer and therefore we do not scandalize or marvel at the fact that there is a passage of skills. Let us think, for example, of the tourism that every summer fills our beaches with hundreds of thousands of people, where cultural - let me say - there is very little, as well as winter tourism that fills our mountains with enthusiasts of alpine skiing; let us think about thermal tourism and well-being, where, even in this case, the cultural component is very poor. We are not, therefore, prejudiced by the fact that we are taking away from the Ministry for goods and political activities from the delegations on tourism. In the transition to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, on the contrary, we also see positive aspects, related to the Italian agri-food sector and more generally to Made in Italy. I am thinking, in particular, of all those territories that fail to intercept the tourist flow of cities of art, where cultural tourism is concentrated, but which are also rich in monuments and artistic treasures, often unknown, and of the many, many festivals and local events, which have at the center the products of Italian agro-food, which can become the destination of many tourists. On the other hand, going back with the memory, tourism in Italy has always had a troubled life; I think of the constitution of the Ministry in the early fifties, until the referendum repealing, and then back in force as a delegate to the Presidency of the Council, then passing under the Ministry of productive activities and then again to the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities and today to the Ministry of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies. The problem is not, therefore, who manages the delegations, but what is being done for tourism. To date we have a negative view of what has been done previously in terms of tourism planning, often entrusted to local authorities and often poorly coordinated also between the various territorial authorities. I think that those who have managed up to now the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities have thought little about tourist planning as a whole and even less and badly to manage our artistic and monumental heritage: I think about our museums and archaeological sites. Surely it would have been better if he had thought of finding more resources to better organize our museums and to appoint fewer non-Italian directors, as if we lack professional skills or excellence in the sector. We will see, therefore, how the passage of the competences of tourism from the Ministry for goods and activities from cultural activities to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry policies will guarantee a global approach in the management of tourism through strategic planning, able to promote and enhance, in a complementary way, all the excellences of Made in Italy expressed in the various territories. We will see how the initiatives of the various tourism will be managed, which have different needs, with specific problems and which need equally different solutions. We will see how the weakest territories, which are outside the great tourist flows, but are still rich in products and works, will be valued. We are convinced that Made in Italy, especially agri-food, can represent a great resource for the valorization of our territories. Therefore, we do not adversely evaluate this passage, even if we reaffirm our idea of an ad hoc Ministry for tourism, but we do so with reservation, with the reservation to evaluate its work, Minister: we will evaluate it with objectivity, without prejudice and on the merits, depending on how it will enhance the tourism sector as a whole. I would also like to highlight our appreciation for the establishment of a specific Ministry for the Family and how this provision, with the provisions of Article 3, begins a path of development of this Ministry. We have always believed that the family is the basis of our society and that it is the fundamental and primary core on which the whole nation rests. To date, unfortunately, we have seen for our part the implementation of policies that are not careful and we have often seen in action a cultural thought that aimed at the destruction of this institute, from the referendum on divorce to the recognition of marriages between people of the same sex. I certainly do not want to start a debate on this issue, but this is certainly a strong sign of counter-trend. We would not, however, like this to be just a Ministry of Facade and we say so because, in our opinion, there are no concrete and incisive proposals in this project to give real support to the family. We at the Brothers of Italy have made proposals: I am referring to the fact that kindergartens are not only free, but also open until the closing hours of shops and offices; we would like the income of children to be introduced, with a family allowance of 400 euros per month; we would like the family quotient to be applied in the tax field. But above all we would like to see a real plan of support for the birth rate and the proposals that we are offering to this Government and which I have just listed go in this direction. We need to grow our country, our nation, Mr President, but with our children, not with boats. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u17	Senator Rojc is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u18	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the reordering of the Ministries, from the point of view of Made in Italy, opens up an exquisitely political issue, which affects us all closely. Those who claim that culture is not important, that it should be considered apart, those who believe that it is only a source, of which certain voices weigh too much on the public budget, obviously did not understand, nor has ever paused to reflect on what we are, Italian citizens, nor, specifically, on how Italy owes its extraordinary importance in the world to culture: culture represents our past, history, memory, but it is also our future. Politics rarely practices art and culture, relegating them often and in summary way to mere fiction, to something useless, and considers the artists and intellectuals of perditempo, knowing nothing of the profoundly ethical function of art, especially in its formidable ability to grasp very well - and long before politics itself - any change in the system of co-ordinates that leads to a different awareness of the rules of society. Culture represents what is in Heideggerian thought language as the home of being, where language can not fail to mean even essence or truth. I know the world of books quite well: it is not, that of books, a reality made romantically of authors and stories, but a real industry, composed of editors, fairs, agents, all prosthesis to create what is no longer only culture or beauty, but also business. This is just an example to determine how it should be understood the need for competent ministries and reference persons, who know the language of culture and art and understand its needs, who are able to interpret the reality of culture as interpenetration, interweaving between idea, concept and reality and who do not think that it is enough to manage the coffers at the entrances of museums, theatres or fairs. Can we put in the hands of anyone and detach from an important synergy the future of entities that the whole world envys us, such as the Scala di Milano, the Arena di Verona, the Maggio musicale fiorentino, the Festival di Spoleto? Film festivals, like the Venice Film Festival? Extraordinary companies, such as the Turin Book Fair, which with Ernesto Ferrero has grown to become a reference event for European publishing and not only? Not to mention the extraordinary quality of an endless list of other events, which determine the essence of our country and which must be promoted in a broad and important context. Massimo Severo Giannini defined the so-called cultural good as something that offers material testimony with the value of civilization. If culture is civilization then it is also community. And here we could refer to the common good as a good that surpasses every individual need, as Paolo Grossi, former President of the Constitutional Court, extraordinarily reflects. In the document of the Committee on Culture of the Chamber of last legislature, the very close relationship between culture and society is analysed and culture is highlighted as an instrument of economic growth, of concrete development of space within which the employment margin is widened. The flattening of activity disjoined between them to a single common denominator can mean, therefore, only one thing: that we are approving all the great excellences to a single outlet product, marked by a brand of factory very simplistic. There are demonstrations designed for the general public, but there can be no real search without particular spaces of reflection, adapted to a more collected audience, otherwise aware or prepared. Through this research will be determined the space within which Italian culture (and not only, of course) will be able to develop in the future. Culture and society are closely connected, they constitute a set of knowledge, customs, behaviors in which each of us as part of society itself identifies itself. Franco Cardini in 2017 defines culture as "knowledge and want to question itself" as "condition of moral and intellectual courage." Wish to learn, to listen to others, to make a contribution to growth. I therefore hope that this Government and Italy will make their own the awareness that culture remains, as it was in the last legislature, a field of enterprise and creative diffusion, of community, to be defined in synergy between the Ministry of Culture, of tourism, on which Minister Franceschini has worked, and that of economic development, to carry out a speech of excellence that distinguishes us with the support of individual competences. It will certainly not be accidental that all totalitarian regimes wanted to put a gag on culture: my national community, the Slovenian community of Venice Giulia, was the victim of a real attempt at genocide perpetrated during the Fascist Twenty-Years, with the suppression of all cultural associations, with burnings of houses of culture and books of public and private libraries, causing a mass outuscitism of Slovenian intellectuals, unique in Europe between the two Wars. I would not like us to recall the words of Alcide de Gasperi, who in 1913 spoke - I quote - of a descending parable of our culture that now bends towards decadence. Isn't the desire to bring together problems and needs in a cauldron that has more the flavor of a franchise than of Ministries with serious programmatic bases that politics has to indicate? Does it not seem dangerous to you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to think that we are slipping towards a finis terrae, giving the signal to future generations that we should not be concerned about the education of critical thinking tout court? Will we be able to tolerate future generations, convinced that the network or shared images on various social networks determine or represent absolute truth and reality? It is a serious cultural policy, combined with a policy on its development possibilities, that must give young people the tools to critically evaluate what they learn. I conclude by saying that, in the awareness of the uniqueness and inestimable value of Italian cultural heritage, we must create serious synergies to develop it, to become aware that the culture concerns each of us in the first person, and that it is politics that must bear its responsibility, promoting it internationally in a country that can and must continue to be the protagonist. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u19	Senator Saponara is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Senate of the Republic, today, in this Senate, the conversion into law of the decree-law on the reorganization of the Ministries, in particular the provision that transfers the functions of tourism to date exercised by the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism to the Ministry of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies, and the assignment to the Minister for Family and Disability of the functions of address and coordination in matters of policies for the family, adoptions, childhood, adolescence and disability. A measure which, on the one hand, is aimed at optimising and exploiting human and economic resources, on the other hand, tends to connect and harmonise subjects and sectors that are no longer conceivable to deal with watertight and separate sectors. I reply to Senator Malpezzi, who is amazed at a measure before which I, on the other hand, expected to see the approval and support of those who were in the government in the past legislature and today is at the opposition's benches, and my colleagues have been strongly criticized, highlighting a great contradiction of their policy. It has been criticized for the fact that in this reordering of tourism has been included within the Ministry of Agriculture, citing as its main reason the fact that it has seen growth in recent years, contrary to agriculture, and that in this way it is likely to be relegated. It seems to me, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a very fragile reason, which does not take into account how much tourism, which has so far been at the head of MIBACT, has benefited agricultural activity and everything that revolves around it. What I say is not an invention, but a precise reference to the fact that in the past legislature the former Ministers of Agriculture and Tourism went hand in hand, and precisely the former Minister of Tourism - to tourism, I stress - had drawn up a program that provided that, after the year of the paths and villages, 2018 would be the year of food, with the aim of launching events, initiatives, events related to the culture and food tradition of Italy. All this in order to say that those who sit at the opposition counters know very well that tourism needs agriculture, because we cannot talk about it without combining it with food, which in turn brings us back to agriculture, to that peasant tradition that has cared for our lands for centuries, bearing as fruit the raw materials that are the basis of our typical products, of our typical cuisine; those products and that cuisine that any tourist seeks when he comes to visit our cities of art; those products that from Trentino to Sicily are an indisputable attraction, like our Alps, our seas and all the historical beauties that tell us, together with food, the history of our country. All of us, I think, when we go to visit a tourist place, we cannot help but look for the typical trattoria of the place, and on the other hand, I ask my fellow senators what would be worth visiting Parma, my beautiful city, without tasting the ham, the parmesan or without visiting the beautiful countryside and hills that surround it. In my small experience in the tourism sector, I have absolutely convinced myself that tourism needs agriculture and that it is an important driving force for tourism. The tourist packages that are packaged by the most important tourist marketing companies say so too. I still ask if you are really convinced that the thriving Tuscan tourism would have been such without the stretches of sunflowers of its hills and its orderly vineyards and olive groves. Tourism needs agriculture and this is also demonstrated by the endless festivals that have been taking place for decades in our countries, in our small Italian municipalities that on those occasions, precisely proposing the typical products of the territory, record flows of tourism that otherwise would not be there. Just to give an example, a small fraction of Parmense of only 58 inhabitants with its historic polenta festival is capable of attracting up to 10,000 people each year. It is an example among many, that my colleagues in Parliament who are also mayors, advisers or city councilors can confirm, recognizing the importance of such events, that they are nothing more than celebrations of the fruits of the earth. Castles we have and he asked the same, but what can lead me to choose to visit one rather than another? It is clear that the choice depends not only on their beauty, but also on the landscape context in which they are inserted, from the traditions, from the kitchen, from the food of the place where they are located. And again, last of all I want to remember how tourism once defined as a niche is getting more and more on track. I am referring to slow tourism, to tourism along the pilgrimage routes that cross our beautiful countryside, I am referring to the slow tourism that many seek in farms that, with difficulty but also with great foresight of the owners, have transformed the places of refreshment and tranquility for a holiday in nature. So, ladies and gentlemen, what better opportunity to make even more of our tourism and the enormous potential of our agriculture and our products than to have a single Ministry that deals with it, linking its characteristics with each other? This is not - as many say - the whim of a minister. In fact, I would like to take this opportunity to wish Minister Centinario a good job. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] It is a new way to keep up with the needs and expectations of tourists. Tourism is hungry, tourism needs agriculture, and that is the message we want to pass through with this measure. I would have been happy if we had all agreed on this game that interests the Italian economy. At the G20 they understood that agriculture and tourism are together, so much so that the document was voted unanimously. I conclude with a brief reference to the Ministry of the Family and Disability, reminding everyone that disability is something that must first of all be called by its name, with deep respect, and that the problems of disability cannot be treated in a way detached from the family matter. When there is a disability, in fact, there is also a family directly involved that, in front of it, needs to take a fair attitude, so that it is not lived in such a way as to harm the rights of those who are subject to it and not even those around it. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Missa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u22	Mr President, fellow Senators, representatives of the Government, Decree-Law No 86 of 12 July 2018 defines - in our opinion - the reordering of the powers of the Ministries is a political rebalancing within the Government, wrong even if politically legitimate and distant, very distant, from the concrete real needs of Italy and the Ministries subject to the alleged reorganization. You who narrate the change imposed, with the decree of urgency, the restoration of the manual Cencelli: two ministries to the minister Di Maio required a strengthening of the Ministry of Agriculture for the minister Centinario. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We remain convinced of a forced use of the use of the decree. We have explained this abundantly and very well in the reference that we have discussed here. Obviously, I would replace the word "reorder" with the word "pasticcio", because it is the confusion, rather than the reason, that guides the essential concepts of the articles of law objects of this decree: four articles that present themselves without a common denominator; without a vision of government; without a reflection on the political side to be implemented in the various ministries and without - and this is the most serious thing - an analysis of the resources necessary to implement new policies for the economic and social development of our country. On the contrary, the balance of the armchairs is taken care of. Colleagues senators, the narrative flies, the government latite, as well as latita the implementation of your government contract. In Article 1, in fact, the choice to move tourism from the current Ministry of Cultural Heritage to the Ministry of Agricultural Policies does not have immediate evidence in relations and in respect of what tourism represents for the gross domestic product of our country, over 12%. It is demagogy thinking of a natural relationship that exists between tourism and the agri-food system, our food and wine fields, which actually represent just over 5-7 percent of the total GDP that the tourism sector represents. If you want to invest in tourism, a natural platform like Italy requires in the reduction of distances, in the connection between the different airport infrastructures and in the high speed, in the sector of public works the investments necessary to realize a platform in which the reduction of distances generates new competitiveness for a country that - we must never forget - has enormous potential precisely in the economic development of the tourist sector. Wanting to make a rational choice, everything leads us to think that tourism must increasingly represent a fundamental pillar of the economic and social development of the country. It is agriculture, of course, but it is also innovation, Industry 4.0, made in Italy, fashion, Motor valley, the fruit of the economic attractiveness of a country, extraordinarily important on the cultural level like Italy; a natural cultural platform, able to develop economically, in terms of growth of both the gross domestic product and the employment of the sector. That is why, if we wanted to make strategic reasoning, the most natural relationship would have been economic development. If you wanted to make a choice not for the armchairs and for the rebalancing of the manual Cencelli, but for the future of Italy, this had to be the fundamental choice in a country that invests in its future. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Many speeches have already focused on mission structures. I would like to stress three fundamental aspects, because the ideological choice to scrap the previous government's initiatives will be and will represent an important and heavy damage to the country. When your narration ends and we will measure ourselves on the fundamental aspects of the Government, it will be discovered that the mission structures had precise objectives, some of which already started: the relaunch of investments; the putting at the centre the prevention of our fragile, but beautiful country; the realization of a great national plan of care, reminder and regeneration of our Italy. Mission structures were also an opportunity to re-establish a more fruitful relationship between the State, the Regions and local authorities. It is not true that relations with the local self-government sector were saturated and demolished. In recent years, also thanks to the choices we have made, eliminating the Stability Pact, the first important signs on the recovery of investment had been implemented and the mission structures had represented in the school, as in the recovery of prevention and hydrogeological failure, an essential reference point. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I think that the time will come when we will have to make a serious reflection, in the context of which the narrative will have to leave room for concrete government action. President, these are the most important aspects. We find the measure negative, precisely because it lacks any concrete action for economic and social development, for the growth of employment and employment. When it comes to reordering functions within Ministries, the country's fundamental objective should be economic growth, the revival of employment and above all the investment on the fundamental identity that Italy has at its disposal, which are the Italians, their creativity and their ability to act. Your narration, on the other hand, continues to give as a point of reference the "we" think about it, with solidarity rather than with subsidiarity, denying fundamental rights that require an investment of human resources. Italy is a great country, that's why your narration will impact negatively on Italy that believes in a better future. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u23	She's enlisted to speak Senator Lonardo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the President of the 9th Commission, Senator Vallardi, who reminded the Forza Italia Parent Company of the reasons why we are going to vote against this measure. Well, I believe that all innovations are certainly positive. Of course, it is necessary to give time to experience them and to feel their own. In order to do this, however, they must first of all present themselves with conviction. In fact, in this case I have not been able to see that conviction, so much so that in the Commission the rapporteur, Senator Fattori - I esteem it for her competence, without any intention of pointing out anything particular - when she presented the measure, did not seem very convinced. In fact, he noted that the Movimento 5 Stars in the election campaign promoted the establishment of the Ministry of Tourism and, instead, today we are at an amalgamation. You did not seem particularly convinced, so it is true that in the report of the sitting of the Commission it is written that it is hoped that, after this first phase, we can also arrive at an autonomous Ministry of Tourism. It is therefore clear that there is talk of provisionality; and we know that in Italy all measures, when they are provisional, then in fact become definitive. Therefore, it is necessary to be very courageous in being able to present them definitively. I therefore call for special courage from the 5 Stars and friends of the League, as well as from the President of the Commission and the Minister, to ensure that, since agriculture is a fundamental sector and deserves all the attention possible, like tourism, which is the first industry in our country, it has organization, funds, staff and opportunities for proximity. And I tell you this because I experienced it on my own, having been the commissioner of the autonomous tourism company of the island of Capri, the pearl of the world. When we talk about tourism, Capri is our pearl in Italy. When the Region, with the law on tourism, has annihilated these agencies, only failed that proximity, that way of hospitality for tourism and of giving the right information to tourism. It is therefore necessary to restore this proximity. I hope, therefore, a careful analysis of the competences that have been given to the Regions, in order to achieve a law that gives dignity to our country, loved all over the world. I ask only for courage and I add that we in Forza Italia, when the measures convince us, even if they come from the majority, we strongly support them. But you didn't convince us about that. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u25	Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our Group will vote against this measure and in the explanation of vote we will incorporate a number of reasons. I would just like to talk about tourism and make a few comments. I have heard the reasons why the government has decided to take tourism to agriculture. It is said that tourism needs agriculture. Yes, tourism needs agriculture and food and wine. Tourism, however, also needs infrastructure; tourism needs services; tourism needs quality in health; tourism needs everything, because it is one of those fundamental factors for development that integrates policies. What tourism doesn't need is its own oil representation. There is no need to put tourism together with agriculture because you buy Parmigiano Reggiano or Parma or Langhirano ham. It doesn't make any sense. It would be much easier to say that, for a reason of division of power, such a choice has been made. Then I turn to the Minister. What would tourism need? First of all - in my opinion - it needs a project, an integrated project, which puts the priorities of tourism at the centre. I've heard little about it. The first priority is the organization: we are a country 20 years behind the tourist organization. Meanwhile the web has entered that is carrying out radical processes of change. As a second priority, tourism is first of all receptiveness and quality of receptiveness. We need to adapt our accommodation structures with an investment project capable of supporting even a small company, which has few rooms and a capacity to relaunch not always easy. You need to set some tools in motion. Thirdly, we really need to be able to stand and penetrate the markets. And neither a Ministry nor the Regions can do that. It is essential to build a promotional marketing project that puts operators at the centre and is able to guard the markets and connect with them. Inside these projects there are food and wine, cultural heritage, as well as many other sectors. But the organization and strategy here I don't see. I see rather the attempt to build a balance of power, which is fully legitimate. If, however, we want to make tourism a turning point for our country, then we build a Ministry, to which we give the powers and functions; we reorganise relations and relations with the regions and we choose the strategic markets on which to build our promotion-marketing. We give a new role to operators who have to build networks that are able to stay on the markets and connect with them. It often happens - for example - that foreign operators sell Italy to Asian markets, for example to the Chinese market. We have a problem with reorganizing the tour operator chain. Tourism means reasoning by adopting as a point of view an industrial plant for tourism, that is able to aggregate demand, organize it in order to bring added value, because the numbers are not enough. We must link ourselves to systems of medium-high added value that are likely to escape us. When the Russian market opened up, the Russians arrived and began to buy products made in Italy, which of course are not only, however important, those agri-food ones; also our great manufacture of excellence is made in Italy. Then, again, due to the lack of a qualitative leap in the accommodation structure, the new tourists began to go to other parts of the world. Let's build a project, Minister. You have the proxy and you know how weakly you are to take her home from the point of view of the Department's structure. We need to reorganise ENIT. It's all zero here. The Accounting Office encourages us, in the Budget Committee, to emphasize the invariance of expenditure, which is - as it were - the fundamental feature of the measure under consideration. Minister, build a project. We do not understand, however, why it can best govern it - I am not referring to you personally - the Ministry of Agriculture. You will also agree that this is not understood, because the President-in-Office of the Council or the Minister for Economic Development should do better. However, you realize a project, put the different protagonists around a table and rebuild a network capable of being in the world. We do not have the problem of saying that Italy is beautiful. Everyone knows it; just look at all the investigations worldwide: we are always at the top of the Chinese or Indian imagination. The problem is that we do not have the tools to make this possible. That is our strategic problem. Minister, let's build a project. We are against this choice, because it makes the idea of small tourism, subordinate to the view that tourism needs agriculture. Tourism needs everything: it needs a project and an industrial culture, which unfortunately in the proposal you really do not see. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u27	You are registered to speak Senator Nastri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u28	Mr President, the legislative framework of the measure under consideration as a whole provides for rules which are certainly acceptable, although - as I have already said during the debate on the question referred - we would have appreciated the presentation of a draft law and not the use of the urgency decree, which is considered unnecessary in this case too. The regulatory framework has five articles. While, on the one hand, it affects fundamental factors for the national economy (in particular tourism or the environment), with a shift in skills and prerogatives which, for this purpose, would have required, precisely for such reasons, a greater time in the evaluation of the rules; on the other hand, it should, at least theoretically, favour a decision-making process determined by the combination of functions and deliberations within a single Ministry on specific issues compared to what is happening today. Of course, like all laws, any regulatory system can be perfect and can be improved. We must therefore wait - this is our wish - for the impact that the provisions of the decree-law will have on the social and economic fabric of the country in order to be able to give a more incisive and sure judgment on the effectiveness of these norms. However, it cannot be considered an ordinary transfer of competences the reorganization of some Ministries, considered as having a significant impact on the governance - for example - of environmental emergencies, of action of prevention and security of the territory and of the building heritage, starting from the school one. We also intervene on a strategic sector for our economy, tourism. With the passage of skills to the Ministry of Agricultural Policies, which finds our full sharing, Italian tourism is also valued through agri-food production, in order to start an integrated policy of valorization of Made in Italy. On the transfer of the functions currently exercised by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers to the Ministry of the Environment for the interventions of environmental emergency, aimed at guaranteeing the agri-food safety of the territory of the Campania Region, instead we have very strong reservations. It is not clear - for example - whether, within the framework of the measures of order of competences and attributions of new tasks, the Ministry of the Environment will also have to manage a chapter as difficult as that of the emergency of the warnings of geological disasters and natural disasters in a country at very high risk as ours. In view of this perspective, it is absolutely necessary to clarify the need for the national civil protection structure and regional support structures to have the greatest support from the institutions in the context of the establishment of a clear and clear regulatory framework. In this connection, I would like to add that it is important to create a great synergy between all local, provincial and regional institutions. Therefore, in my opinion, we are faced with a decree-law that certainly has lights, but also many shadows. In relation to the interventions attributed to the Delegated Ministry for Family and Disability in the field of co-ordination of policies for the protection of family rights, for childhood and adolescence and in favour of persons with great disabilities, also with regard to school inclusion, accessibility and mobility, we cannot but accept that the appropriations allocated to the National Observatory on the conditions of persons with disabilities are clearly insufficient compared to the actual needs that they need today. We therefore hope that the relevant Minister will be able to provide adequate funds for disability under the next budget law. To this end, however, we welcome the interest of Minister Fontana who has come in the run to increase the Fund's budget for non-self-sufficiency. We are faced with a decree-law which, in addition to measures that find our agreement - I am thinking, for example, of the rule adopted in the Commission, which allows us to sign a protocol of understanding between the Department of Drug Policies of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Health for the definition of health measures to combat the spread of drug use, drug addiction and alcohol dependence - contains others that do not convince us. You have suppressed the mission structure for the redevelopment of the school building, the mission structure against the hydrogeological failure, Casa Italia - as some have mentioned before - all structures that certainly allowed transparency and even a certain speed. On the mission structure, which had some sort of management in the procedure relating to funds derived from the release of the Stability Pact for Municipalities, it is not clear - for example - who will carry out the monitoring action on the state of implementation for interventions on seismic vulnerability checks, whose competences will pass into the single fund of school building, under the Ministry of Education. A more in-depth analysis of the rules would certainly have been desirable. The hope is that the passage of competences and prerogatives between the ministries concerned can strengthen and improve the country-system, for the matters that were involved in the decree-law. For my part, there can only be the greatest attention in following what will be the impact that the norms contained in the measure will have in the social and economic fabric of the Country, while at the same time hoping for an increase of the qualitative levels for the citizens and the enterprises deriving from the amalgamation of the functions of the Dicasteries involved. Otherwise, through the prerogatives deriving from the function of parliamentarians, together with my colleagues of Brothers of Italy I will be ready in the Senate Halls to correct any distortions resulting from the application of the rules of this decree-law. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u29	She's registered to speak Senator Parente.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u30	Mr President, my speech will focus on certain aspects of the decree-law that we are discussing, which I find particularly and totally at odds with. At the bottom of my concern, which I will try to explain later, there is the choice of the majority to set up a Ministry of Family and Disability. Today, in 2018, the family, our great and beautiful emotional and social institution, is very fragile and is strong at the same time, in the face of bad weather and accidents, from the work of young people, to the loss of the work of mothers and fathers, to the separations, to the difficulties of adolescents, to the relationship between school and family. The family is supported only through the emancipation of the people who make up it, starting from the condition of women. In this sense, the institutional history of our country, with the Ministries of Equal Opportunities, had to be restored. This should have been a lesson in order to continue a path that started 20 years ago. We do not go back, relegating the problems to a Ministry for the Family and Disabilities demonstrating a backward conception of society. The family is fine if society is well and vice versa; it is fine if there is a welfare system that accompanies it. I therefore do not agree with the choice of subtracting from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy - as my previous colleagues have also said very well - and skills in particular in supporting the reconciliation of working time and family care and in coordinating policies to ensure the protection and promotion of the rights of persons with disabilities. The theme for our society, everyone's theme, is social and economic emancipation: it is about increasing women's employment and ensuring that women do not leave work at the birth of their first child. Maternity is a social value and should be encouraged and supported as such. I find it shortsighted who thinks of supporting and reconciling work with the responsibilities deriving from the education and care of their children by establishing a Ministry of the Family. Work and family must be kept together and that is why I believe that this issue must be addressed in harmony with public welfare policies, on the one hand, and with bargaining, on the other. This ratio - for example - has been followed for the appropriation in 2017 and 2018 of approximately 110 million euros of contributory reductions for support to second-level bargaining, for reconciliation measures between working life and private life of innovative and improving workers and workers. What do we do? Do we take this set of measures off and isolate it in a Ministry? With regard to the transfer of policies in favour of people with disabilities, I would like to give two examples: the beautiful law of the last legislature on the "After us" and the one on caregivers. The law about after us was born to accompany families: only those who have never spoken with a family, with a parent, with a mother and a father who must remain serene when they will no longer be able to care for their children, do not know how much accompanying work there is to do. [[Applause from the PD Group]] He does not know how delicate work must be done, because parents can take their concerns out of the family walls and rely on a network of social services. The family has to rely on public policy, otherwise it can't. How great is the human contact work that our social workers do. How great is the work of the third sector associations. That is why we cannot break the competence on the after us between two ministries, with double signatures. Weren't you the simplification guys? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Just a year ago, in July 2017, the second biennial action programme for the promotion of rights and integration of persons with disabilities was approved, which is based on the principle of substantial equality for persons with disabilities in order to respond to the right and unavoidable demand for full and integral citizenship of persons with disabilities, in line with the UN's forecasts and Convention on their rights. Well, the promotion of independent life and support for self-determination are to be considered no longer areas of welfare intervention, but rather overall inspiring criteria for all, even for those who are less weak. For this reason, I reiterate the coherence in leaving the responsibility for protecting and promoting the rights of persons with disabilities to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Finally, with regard to the decision to transfer to the budget of the Council Presidency the financial envelope of the Fund to support the role of caregivers and caregivers, at the end of the last parliamentary term a great deal of bipartisan work was done to obtain this fund. It has not been easy: Parliament has been very busy on this issue. The basic idea we have is characterized by the recognition of the figure of caregivers, of the care of their needs. Seventy per cent of those who work in caring for people with disabilities are women and these women must be able to work and leave home, have time for themselves. These women get sick in order to do the work of care and that is why caregivers in general must be included in an integrated system of support of socio-assistant services to give them relief in the beautiful and delicate activity of care - as happens already in many regional experiences - and considered beneficiaries of transversal policies. So, President - and I'm out - I'm very worried about this setback. I hope that there will be a very strong social pressure response in the country. I wouldn't want us to have the ghost of that beautiful picture of Goya titled "The sleep of reason generates monsters." But I am very confident and at this time when it is said that there is no longer any difference between center-right and center-left I believe that discrimination is precisely freedom. We will continue to fight for the freedom of a woman who wants to work and bring to the world of children [[Applause from the PD Group]] We will continue to fight for the freedom of a family that has a person with disabilities to be able to entrust their child to a network. [[Applause from the PD Group. The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u31	Please, Senator, finish your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u32	Parent (PD). A Ministry for Family and Disability Island, does not open. We want to accompany the dream of freedom and emancipation of our fellow citizens and their families. Times are tough, but we're gonna make it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u33	Thank you and I apologize for the impression that you have cut your speech off in the part that seemed to be the final part.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u34	Senator Ripamonti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, we are dealing with measures of great importance to make the government's work even more effective and to achieve concrete results, to improve the lives of the citizens of our country. I am, of course, referring to the transfer of responsibilities on tourism to the Ministry of Agricultural Policies, as well as to the allocation to the President of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Delegated Minister for the Family and Disabilities, the functions of guidance and coordination on family policies in all its components and generational and relational issues, as well as the functions of state competence assigned to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policies in the field of coordination of policies aimed at protecting the rights and promoting the well-being of the family, interventions to support motherhood and fatherhood, reconciling working times and family care times, measures to support the family, parenthood and birth, also in the main aim of combating the demographic crisis. In Italy we are witnessing an increasingly marked birth crisis: according to ISTAT data, in 2017 there was a new negative record, historical minimum from the unity of Italy. Famous economists and demographers confirm the link between birth crisis and economic development. The policies for the family adopted so far do not seem to have proved effective in overcoming the demographic crisis. [[Applause from the L-SP Group and Senator Paragon.]] We need a strategic planning of family policies, a broader and more comprehensive direction of government action, capable of addressing and promoting in a synergistic way the different policies aimed at the support and well-being of the family and the revival of the birth, giving impetus to selective interventions in every area, first and foremost, the economic, fiscal, labour, health, education and culture. That's why this measure, which finds us totally favorable, for a change of register and for greater attention to policies for the family and for the development of the birth, with consequent growth of our country. About then the choice to use the term "family" to the singular in the definition of the corresponding Ministry - let me tell you - suffice here to recall the unconstitutionality of the amendment that proposes instead to use this term in the plural. I would therefore advise the oppositions to read carefully Article 29 of our Constitutional Charter, where the uniqueness of the family and its distinction with respect to other social formations, which are recognised and regulated elsewhere, are clearly enshrined. (17.59) (RIPAMONTI followed). Those who do not agree can always promote a proposal for constitutional reform and the natural law to which the Constitutional Charter refers. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] As for agriculture and tourism, they are both fundamental elements for the economic, productive and social fabric of our country: two categories of excellence of Italy of which we are proud, envied and emulated all over the world. Today, with the measure that we are going to discuss, we intend to transfer this message not only to public opinion, but also and above all to the geography of the Ministries. I personally share this reorder, which ennobles two great excellences of our country, such as tourism and agriculture. Who, like myself, comes from a land with a strong tourist and agricultural vocation, like Liguria, can only welcome this choice with favor and enthusiasm. Allow me and forgive me, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a small personal parenthesis. I hid, precisely, in Ligurian land, in the province of Savona in particular, and I grew up in Laigueglia, a small seaside village overlooking the sea, so that every single moment of my childhood, adolescence and adulthood I spent in close contact with tourism and agriculture and everything that represents these sectors, rich in extraordinary potentialities, all set in a wonderful land like our Italy, which has a unique predisposition to be used for tourism: it is surrounded by the sea and embellished by the islands, protected by mountains, filled with hills and plains, full of history and traditions. Tourism is a bit like a book: it doesn't depend on the shelf in which it is stored, very kind Senator Malpezzi, but on its contents, on what it has to offer, on the emotions it transmits reading it, if it intrigues you, if it makes you think and - why not - if it makes you dream. Kind of like when you dreamed of winning the referendum, remember? [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups and from the government benches.]] For this reason, Mr President, I admit that I find the debate on where to place the delegations that refer to tourism and good does the Minister Centinario want to give this sector its dignity; for this reason it cannot be limited to being assigned to a direction within a Ministry, but it must become more important by transforming itself into a Department. The aim of the measure in question represents an unprecedented opportunity: to promote and enhance Italian tourism also through the products of primary activities, within the competence of the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policies. These are the excellences of Made in Italy that constitute a unique heritage, like the tourist destinations of our country that, treated unitedly by a single Dicastery, through careful marketing operations, can constitute an important flywheel of development, competitiveness and innovation. In essence, it is a matter of promoting Italy by focusing on what it is loved for and known internationally. The creation of a Department of Tourism within the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism aims to be a clear signal of the strategic importance that this sector can occupy by working in synergy with the traditional competences of the Ministry. Moreover - hear, hear - it has just been approved (thanks to you, Minister) unanimously to the G20 of Buenos Aires a document - so we also clarify the difficulties in understanding this amalgamation - in which tourism is indicated as a means of promoting the territories and instrument to further develop agriculture, being an activity of supplementary income for agricultural entrepreneurs. Bravo, Minister! [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] Moreover, the Minister stated clearly in his report that tourism is an industrial sector with a high entrepreneurial impact, which is crucial for our economy (13% of GDP), as are those working in this sector. To demonstrate this, among other things, I would like to highlight the Minister's attention to the seaside sector, having recalled that "By virtue of the concession and the state property dealers own land and structures, so the concession is good, it is not a service". [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] Some may think that the small improvements of recent times are the result of careful management, but one cannot fail to consider how the world has become very uncomfortable in recent times and that our country for tourists, especially the Italian ones, was perhaps the only way to give yourself a little 'vacation. I hope that the time has ended for the unlikely promotion ads in a hesitant English, of web portals launched in great style and then forgotten, of national structures that do not increase competitiveness, indeed. With this organizational innovation it will finally be possible to enhance the agri-food production through the link with the territory and the related tourist activity, giving the opportunity to those who visit Italy to know our country also through the typical productions, finally creating a national brand and a synergy aimed at supporting sectors (tourism and agriculture, in the broad sense, including all the sectors of activity included in this concept) undoubtedly driving for the Italian economy, such as the promotion of the territory and the protection of traditions. The innovation of the tourism sector does not change from its location, but depends on other factors. Positive are the intention and intuition of the Minister of interaction with the other Ministries, with whom to operate in synergy and playing team games. Tourism, of course, is affected by the security of a country, the possibility of being smart, the reachability of places of tourist interest (please be careful, because they are Ligurian and I know it well), the connection (it is the digital era) and much more. In light of all this, the certainty for us is that this choice represents an opportunity for a decisive change of pace towards a further enhancement of tourism, agriculture, made in Italy and Italian excellence. This is the Government of change, even of mindset. Even through this type of initiative there is a clear message, indeed, Minister, very clear in this sense: tourism at the heart of the government's agenda is a great, great signal of change. Thank you, Minister, thank you, Government! [[Applause from the L-SP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u36	She is registered to speak Senator Tiraboschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u37	Mr President, Ministers of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I do not repeat what would be my third speech on tourism, because I think I would become too boring. I just say that, if this biunivocal relationship between agriculture - food and wine, in order to enhance the National Year of Food, which is 2018 - and tourism is the beginning of a more ambitious reform, that's fine; we disagree, but we wait for you to do this more ambitious reform. So, just picking up the conclusion of my speech (which would become the third, so it would be a bit boring), you don't forget that the tourism industry is the digitalest ever and so think about this Department of Tourism and the digital agenda. In fact, international tourist flows must be studied in terms of big data and food and wine is one of the many products made in Italy. [[Applause from Senator Malpezzi]] In Made in Italy there is all the Italian creative industry. With regard to Article 2 on the reorganization of the powers of the Ministry of the Environment, given also the programme of government that Minister Costa has come to explain to us in the Commission (the fight against climate change, the reduction of air pollution, the preservation of nature, the exploitation of water, the prevention of hydrogeological risk and fires, the development of the circular economy and zero waste policy: these were the six or seven points that the Minister, about a month ago came to tell us in the Commission), we would have expected, with greater courage, the establishment of a new interministerial committee - certainly chaired by the Minister of the Environment - given the strategicity and centrality of environmental issues, with reference to the economic and industrial policy of this country. This Committee would have served to better coordinate the policies, actions, functions and activities of all other ministries, including not only those mentioned in Article 2, but also the Ministry for Economic Development. It will not escape anyone, in fact, that the Ministry for Economic Development, which has never been mentioned, certainly has an important centrality. The current Committee, which can only be assigned to the Campania Region and was established in 2013 for obvious reasons of urgency, should have completed its functions from 2013 to 2018. Therefore, more ambitiously, a new interministerial committee chaired by the Minister for the Environment, central to a number of other ministries, would certainly have been a sign of change and greater courage. I shall then turn to Article 3, which concerns the family. The themes of birth and the family have their pivot in the women's world. Therefore, even with reference to these three major topics (female world, birth and family, which have never been dealt with organically, as if they were secondary to a whole series of other issues that concern more economic development) we would have expected that this Government had addressed them within an agenda of economic, social, cultural and industrial transformations that permeated the enterprise, the family and the third sector. Let us consider, for example, the enhancement of the female world, an extremely organized world with specific qualities that are truly adaptable to the third sector. Well, that didn't happen. Why do we say that? Because, as previous speakers have also said, we need to look briefly at some of the data that we absolutely need to be concerned about. We know that Italy is the European country with the lowest fertility rate and female employment. And the trends of the future are certainly not encouraging. The data tell us that for about forty years fertility rates have been very low and the indicator (less than two children per woman) is absolutely inferior to what would be required to guarantee the simple generational turnover, with obvious negative repercussions both on the sustainability of the pension and tax system, but also on the prospects for growth of the economic system. Italy, moreover, is the oldest country in the world, after Japan, and this must also make us think. There will be 74 over 65 years of age for every 100 active (and by active means people between the ages of twenty and sixty-four), compared to the current 38. This will happen not so far, in 2050. Newborns have fallen dramatically. I'll give you some data. In 1916 there were 676,000, in 1945 821,000, in 1965, the year of the economic boom, 1.35 million, in 2016 they dropped dramatically to 474,000. These data should also be analysed with reference to socio-economic surveys that have been carried out. We have data, referring to very diversified samples, that say that the will to build a family in Italy is very high: 94 percent. In particular, about 80 percent of young people (who are few, but 80 percent of them) would want two or more children; while 14 percent would stop at a child and only 6 percent would not want one. So, these are data that must make us think, precisely to build policies that meet the will and desires of these children. We also know that, among families with three or more children, the incidence of absolute poverty increases by almost 50%, from 18% to 26%. Let me conclude by saying something more economic, which concerns productivity. Not because it means that productivity can increase if we involve women more than by implementing tax policies on labour costs of greater attention to entrepreneurs but certainly to show that productivity in Italy in 2018 grows only 0.6 percent, compared with 1.2 in France and 1.3 in Germany, precisely because the female world is less involved in production processes. I also associated this with a reflection by Kathy Matsui, who was chief strategist of Goldman Sachs and who, in 1999, said that Japan was in decline because it left no room for women. Koizumi, who was Prime Minister in the period 2001-2006, broke with tradition by adopting concrete measures to encourage the participation and enhancement of women in the labour market. Women, by the way, began to be much more frustrated and were also less fruitful. This has been scientifically proven. We cannot say that the new millennium has begun for Japan with positive figures only for this reason, of course, but the link between the greater involvement of women and Japan's economic growth should make us think. I'm gonna finish. We build around an English term, "womenomics" which sums up the words "women" and "economics," that is, women and the economy, therefore the economy of women; not gender policies such as "the Minister," "the mayor" and things of this kind, but a policy of valorization of the qualities of the female world that are completely different from those of the male world. The female world is much more organized, more altruistic, more empathetic, more sensitive, and has greater understanding for all social issues and even greater organizational capacity. It is a world that should be more involved, through technology, in the organizational processes that serve to improve our economy, because the way of thinking of women is decidedly different from that of men: it is a way of reasoning much more oriented to the organization and the ability to do so many things together and done well [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Four. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u39	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking about the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 86 of 12 July 2018, which contains urgent provisions on the reorganization of the powers of the Ministries. I will deal with some aspects that also involve me as a professor of geophysics. The measure transfers from the Presidency of the Council of Ministers to the Ministry of the Environment the functions of countering hydrogeological failure, defence and soil safety. The mission structure Italy is abolishedSafe against hydrogeological failure and the mandate of the mission structure ItalySafe schools for the redevelopment of school buildings is not renewed. The Casa Italia Department becomes a project managed by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I imagine that these structures were conceived for three orders of reasons: seismic and hydrogeological danger of the Italian territory; great vulnerability of the building heritage and infrastructure; fearful delays in policies of prevention of great risks, which have always made us live in continuous and dramatic emergency. Ours is a peninsula with great natural dangers, because of the complex geophysical subsoil and geological nature, which make us one of the most seismic and landslide countries in the world. The failure is intertwined with a serious deficiency in the planning of the territory. The basic rule of structural prevention has hardly ever been respected. Since 1950, we have had about 5,500 victims in over 4,000 landslides and floods, as well as multi-billion-dollar damage. They also clear roads and highways, railways, water and electricity networks. In addition, today we see a further acceleration of hydrogeological failure due to climate change triggered by global warming. The deterioration of the territory is a heavy burden in the state accounts and accumulates future debt. Even in a strictly accountantistic view, it is useful to invest in prevention; it is a huge multiplier investment. For the seismic risk, we note on average an earthquake of greater intensity or equal to the eighth degree of the Mercalli scale every four and a half years. Since 1968 (earthquake of the valley of Belice), in fifty years there have been ten severe shakings, with damages of 150 billion euros and dramatic consequences, economically not evaluable, in terms of human lives, social disintegration and loss or damage of cultural heritage. In Italy, the high danger associated with the vulnerability of the built and the exposure of the population, leads to a critical risk. Emblematic is the situation of schools for seismic risk: exposure is maximum and vulnerability is high. Out of 42,000 school buildings, only 13,000 have since the entry into force of the first serious anti-seismic legislation of 1976. Over 40 percent of school buildings are located in zone 1 and 2, i.e. affected respectively by strong and strong earthquakes; less than 15 percent of such buildings are designed or adapted with sufficient seismic criteria. On the basis of the high and well-known hydrogeological and seismic risk, can we rely on mission structures? Aren't these extraordinary, emergent structures? Focusing powers and/or commissioning problems is good for exceptional circumstances but under conditions of persistent chronicity, as in our case, is a serious mistake. Our natural risks are of normal gravity and must be managed by ministerial and territorial structures aimed at this purpose, properly strengthened and financed. In particular, the Ministry of the Environment, from a marginal role in soil protection and risk mitigation, must become a primary role. The persistence of mission structures would make us go back thirty-two years to when the Ministry of the Environment did not yet exist. Also, what is the point of regulating watercourses but continuing to consume soil? What is the point of containing landslides but not adequately countering forest fires on the slopes? The prevention must be carried out from upstream to downstream in an organic way and in this only the Ministry of the Environment can have a unified picture. There is a need for regular maintenance of the territory, a determined routine prevention. We cannot share the past practice, all too abused, of not making the ordinary work to force us to extraordinary. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We cannot continue to be the home of the emergency, with the ignoble laughter at three o'clock in the night of April 6, 2009 while innocent young people died under the rubble of the Student House in L'Aquila. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] Earthquakes, landslides, floods, volcanic eruptions are the violent, normal, natural phenomena of Italy, among other things quite known by us scholars and largely quite predictable. They become catastrophes for serious human sins. The 27 angels of the collapse of the school of San Giuliano di Puglia in the earthquake of 2002 weigh on the conscience of politics. That country was "NC", seismically not classified according to the rules then in force and therefore not subject to anti-seismic criteria, while for five years there was a new seismic classification, left to dust in the drawers, which placed it in the second category for which they need severe anti-seismic structures, capable of resisting earthquakes much stronger than the one that crumbled the school. I hear the cry of pain from all the victims of so-called natural disasters. Prevention! [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] For seismic risk a specific seismic microzonation, an assessment of vulnerability and an adaptation of the whole building is indispensable. For the hydrogeological failure, the trigger causes must be eliminated, the faults produced and the reclamation operations must be evaluated. If it is not possible to secure the building, appropriate relocations can be carried out. In all this, only the full functioning of the Ministry of the Environment can guarantee success. But to intervene you need a valid and up-to-date thematic cartography (and here falls the donkey). The new geological map of Italy covers only 40% of the national territory; there are many areas with very high seismic and hydraulic danger, such as almost the whole of Calabria. Moreover, most regions do not have a geological office. Geological professionalism is also greatly underestimated. From all this comes the need to create normal structures of land management and risks, capable of dealing with the necessary study, reclamation, protection and valorization of the amazing Italian environmental and sociocultural assets. It is therefore necessary to equip the Ministry of the Environment structurally so that it can undertake an integrated fight against the physical and anthropic degradation of the territory, with even greater funding than those granted to the mission structures, but spent more wisely and with the necessary priorities of intervention. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] A change of paradigm is needed in the political vision: the environment must no longer be the shabby delivery of unsustainable processes, but the starting point for building sustainable and sustainable development. The environment first of all; for a dignified life and not just for mere survival. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u40	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u41	Mr President, I have listened carefully to all the speeches. I will spend a few words on tourism and family matters because I would like to concentrate on the others. As far as tourism is concerned, it seems to me quite clear and clear that it is not a question of abandoning experiences, positive synergies and activities carried out within the MIBACT to promote culture and tourism together. It is a question of adding other synergies; it is a question of finding new opportunities for growth, including in terms of new jobs. So the ambition is simply to face up to a system vision adapted to the needs and potential of several sectors; one thing absolutely does not exclude the other. So not only agricultural and agri-food activities, but also the landscape, artistic, cultural heritage and also the offer of accommodation facilities. As far as the family is concerned, the choice to make discipline more coherent has become necessary for the profound birth crisis, as some of us have already pointed out. In 2017 we reached the peak of this crisis with the birth and registration at municipal offices of the least number of children from the beginning of the history of our country until today. It is clear that previous governments have done too little to protect the family. The policies adopted have been completely inadequate to overcome the demographic crisis and the facts are evidence of this. The Government of change will therefore give impetus to interventions in every area, economic, fiscal, labour, health, education and culture, to stop the demographic crisis and relaunch the family once and for all. Until now, disability has also been managed in a very fragmented way with skills spread within various ministries. From now on, the Council Presidency will be its seat to give the right impetus to policies in favour of people with disabilities, including as regards school inclusion, accessibility and mobility. I come therefore to the issues that I care most about, which are those related to the competences of the Minister of the environment, the Minister of Infrastructure and in particular to the suppression of ItalySicura and Casa Italia, of which President Renzi has made a strenuous defense until recently. The Government intends to cancel structures that represent duplication of costs for public finance and deal with hydrogeological and seismic risk prevention in a structural and systematic way with ordinary routes. That is our intention. In the past parliamentary term we have seen various structures in the Council Presidency, who knows, perhaps the result of a distrust of the President of the Council pro tempore vis-à-vis his own ministers. What is certain is that the centralization of the tasks at the head of the President-in-Office of the Council reminds me very closely of the logic of "ghe pensi mi" of Berlusconian memory; a "ghe pensi mi" in Florentine sauce would be to say. Man's logic only at the command that solves problems is a logic that has united right and left and that in reality has never solved any problems in our country; this logic will never belong to us. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] Specifically, Casa Italia produced results far below expectations and even during the auditions there was no lack of those who made it present. For example, the President of the National Council of Graduate Geometries and Geometries said that the territories and citizens did not understand what the mission of this body was. Even the president of the National Council of Engineers did not use half terms, saying that on the issue of seismic risk prevention Casa Italia did not operate, but only a document of very little impact from the point of view of seismic prevention. With regard to the hydrogeological failure and the closure of ItalySicura, we want to give back centrality to the Ministry of the Environment on a topic that has always been its responsibility, identifying in the Ministry a single center of coordination and political responsibility for the actions of contrast to the failure. Minister Costa has already publicly assured that the contrast to the hydrogeological failure will be one of the priorities of his Dicastery and intends to take action to unlock the funds and provide support to the planning of the priority interventions. But one thing must be very clear: the hydrogeological failure is fought, first of all, by a serious and rigorous law against soil consumption, which, of course, the previous governments have carefully guarded against approving. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Much has been said about the opinions of the audits in the Commission, as I mentioned at the outset. Many requests for clarification have been made, but it is natural that this should be the case in the face of an organisational change such as that in question. However, no one has shouted at the scandal about this organizational choice; indeed, someone has explicitly criticized the experience of ItaliaSicura, like the president of the National Council of Engineers, who has declared that the mission structure ItalySicura has not been able to coordinate with the agencies, utilizing in a coherent and faster way the resources. Pierluigi Claps, professor of hydrology at the Politecnico di Torino, has also publicly stated that ItaliaSicura has not impressed a particular turning point. Indeed, the mission structure against hydrogeological failure and for the development of water structures has its strength only in advertising and communication. It has served to make great announcements and to present slides around Italy in conferences specially organized and always sponsored by Palazzo Chigi. It was, more than anything else, a megaspot of the President of the Council Renzi. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] But just because we don't want to stop at ads and slogans, let's go into detail. With regard to water infrastructure, ItalySicura has created the so-called water portal; there is an interesting review of norms and statistical data published by Istat and an interactive map, from which we can see the dramatic state of purification in Italy and the impressive number of infringement procedures. To overcome the emergency, the CIPE in 2012 allocated 1.6 billion euros for 183 collection and purification interventions in the regions of the Mezzogiorno. To implement this intervention was called an extraordinary commissioner, who provided assistance from 2013 to 2015 to the Ministry of the Environment. The work of the mission structure on this issue does not seem to us to be relevant at all. Also with regard to the hydrogeological failure, we have a special section of the website of ItaliaSicura with a review of statistical norms and data taken from the reports of ISPRA, heart attack of hundreds of propagandistic commercials to tell and recount the things done by others, cheered by the joyful selfies of the workers engaged in the yards, active independently of the activity of the mission structure. Take, for example, the battlehorse of the mission structure, the National Plan against Hydrogeological Disruption, and the recovery of the so-called 2 billion euro treasure not spent in previous years. In this way, the National Plan of works and interventions to reduce hydrogeological risk would appear to be a decisive organic plan, supported by a single project and an economic programme. In fact, it is a plan that includes a list of interventions included by the Regions in a digital platform developed and managed by ISPRA on behalf of the Ministry of the Environment even before the establishment of the mission structure. Let's go analyze the treasure of the 2 billion recovered, according to ItalySicura, from the revocation of the financings and from the interventions financed by the Ministry before 2010 and never realized. Well, thanks to a question from the last parliamentary term of our Member Federica Daga we know that the recovery of the real has not reached 7 million euros: nothing more than 2 billion. This was also one of the usual announcements of the mission structure, naturally taken up with emphasis from the newspapers. In conclusion, the Ministry can quietly continue to do the work it has always done before, during and after the mission structure, without feeling any lack of it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u42	I note that, pursuant to Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure, a proposal has been tabled not to move to the examination of the articles by Senator Ferrari. The vote will be taken after the replies of the minority rapporteur and the representative of the Government, before explaining the amendments to Article 1 of the Decree-Law. I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Malpezzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u43	Mr President, how much do I have? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Ten minutes. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party Mr President, I wanted to respond cordially, through you, to the rapporteur who says that we will not feel the lack of mission structures. I'm sure this government won't miss it, but I think the citizens will miss it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] At least because of the hearings which the rapporteur has been so diligent in reciting, he has obviously decided to make a selection - as it is logical that it is - of the speeches. I will then reserve the right to say what Legambiente and Active Citizenship - which cannot be denied that they are allies of the Democratic Party - have said in that forum. I listened with great interest to the debate here in the Chamber and also to the courtesy of the tones used by my colleague Vallardi, who undoubtedly has a great experience as mayor, and I wanted to be sorry with him, because in Italy, over the last three and a half years, as far as school construction is concerned, 12,415 interventions have been made and 8,114 buildings involved and if none of these interventions concerned the municipalities he administers I am sorry. On the other hand, there are many mayors, more than 8,000, in Italy who are happy, because thanks to the great increase that there has been in school building they have been able to give a help to the schools of their territory, for a total of 5.2 billion already spent. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Now, our concern - but the choice of this government seems very clear to me - is what they will do with those 7 billion that are still there and that actually serve to cover other works already presented in relation to school building, but the local administrators themselves are raising concerns and concerns because they do not know where to turn now. Since this is the prerogative that the government should have, that is to answer the citizens, the first question we tried to ask was precisely this: if the competences pass to the MIUR, there will be a very simple telephone number that will allow the local administrators, who - I repeat - have no color, to make that number and find someone to answer, preventing them from making mistakes in programming and planning, as has often happened in previous years? [[Applause from the PD Group]] The problem is not who dismounts and who builds, who does, who puts and who takes away; the problem is whether the money we have comes to those who then have to use it for the good of the citizens. And the mission structures served this: also to get them to arrive with a programming that could be serious. On the other hand, Legambiente also told you during the hearing at the First Commission in the Senate. In fact, the report reads: The establishment of the mission structures to be eliminated and their allocation to the Presidency of the Council were a response to the need to recover years of delays in securing territories, water purification and the safety of schools. This - I repeat - is what citizens' representatives in the first Commission say. And if we do not think it is necessary to listen to them who are saying who knows what, taking the positions of those who governed before, it seems absurd at least. I'll try to go with order. I say this to my colleague, Mr Saponara, who has made an absolutely interesting speech with regard to tourism and the choice that - we will be fools - we still cannot understand. My dear colleague, Mr Saponara, the problem - I always say this through the President - is not that you simply combine tourism with agriculture, but that you completely forget in this way which is called cultural tourism and which also includes food, agro-food and food and wine. You reduce everything; you have this mania of watertight compartments. For you we are talking about watertight compartments, almost for ghettos and they must be those. You don't even know what the synergy between the different forces that operate between them is. Cultural tourism: you instead take away value from food and food and wine, which could have a great value of cultural nature. One thing you had to do with a little more courage. I say this to Senator Ripamonti, who has made an undoubtedly complex intervention. With courage, if you wanted to enhance tourism, couldn't you create the Ministry of Tourism alone? You could make a much clearer and more transparent choice. It would have been very simple. You would have valued it in all respects, without having to spend time explaining a choice that is objectively unmotivated from any point of view. Dear Senator Ripamonti, always through the courtesy of the President, I would like to add that you have also addressed in your speech the issue of family policies by saying, as was reiterated earlier, that Italy is suffering and experiencing the huge collapse of births, a huge demographic decline and that, therefore, it is necessary to implement policies for the family. In your opinion, family policies are to create the Ministry for the Family without giving it a euro. Don't fund it! [[Applause from the PD Group]] Do not act in any way; make sure there is a coordinator (of what?) further bureaucratising a system which, on the other hand, needs to be simplified with policies that are really active. And that you really reason on the composition today - you will not like - of families because my family is different from yours and is different from someone else's. She will not like it, but look around; there is not one family equal to the other. [[Applause from the PD Group]] She may or may not like it, but the families, fortunately, are different. Fortunately - I say - the world in which we live is another. I add one more question, which is important to me. We have repeated this on several occasions in this House and we have also been somewhat sympathetically delighted by the rapporteur - but we are in favour of it - with regard to our misunderstanding of the decision to detach tourism and join it with the Ministry of Agricultural Policy. We have a clear conviction: tourism and culture - on this we want you to deny us - are the distinctive elements of the brand Italy and our country is really the first place in the world ranking of brand reputation. In this sense it is necessary to approach ourselves in another way and not with what you are trying to offer us - allow me, rapporteur - not according to the logic of the 'ghe pensi mi', which you attribute to us, because you would not be able to do that either, since there are two of them who have to deal with the third. [[Applause from the PD Group]] That's always how it works.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u44	As the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply, as anticipated, we proceed to the vote on the proposal not to move to the examination of the articles, in accordance with Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure. Senators, take your seats. I ask the senators, who are standing next to the tiles inserted without the corresponding senator's presence, to extract them. Please, I invite the assistants to help us do this. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles, presented by Senator Ferrari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u45	Mr President, I am against Amendments 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5 and 1.13. I am in favour of Amendments 1.6 and 1.9. On amendment 1.7, the opinion is in favour but with a small clarification of drawing, in the sense of replacing in point 1) after the sentence: "the words: "goods and cultural activities" are replaced by the following: "for cultural goods and activities" are replaced by the following: "for cultural goods and activities" I therefore call for Amendment No 1.11 to be withdrawn because in fact this amendment is already accepted by a rapporteur's amendment and the same applies to Amendment No 1.12. Amendment 1,500 is by my name. On the agenda, Mr G1.1, I welcome the Government's adoption as a recommendation, as was the case in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u46	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u47	We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u50	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I have listened to many speeches in the Commission and in this House which have challenged the transfer of responsibilities in the field of tourism to the Ministry of Agriculture with different arguments, all of which are very interesting on the subject, starting from those who argued that it was useful to leave things as they were to those who said that it was appropriate to transfer competence to the Ministry for Economic Development; others called for the establishment of a special Ministry, some even asked for the competence on tourism to be passed to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. These are all solutions that I must say, without even a great need for deepening, they appeared immediately much superior to the solution that was chosen by the Government, with the transfer of competences to the Ministry of Agriculture. I must say that this seemed immediately - as Senator Errani said earlier - a very small choice, a choice, that is, without any kind of perspective. Moreover, even those who supported the transition to the Ministry of Agriculture in the Commission and in this House, even a short while ago, did so with very weak arguments. This afternoon I heard even the thesis that it would be important to move to the Ministry of Agriculture because many tourists, when they leave Italy, take home Italian cheeses or wines. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Frankly, it seems to me that the subject deserved better motives. In fact, I believe that at this stage Parliament has lacked a quality which, in my opinion, is always necessary: I am talking about sincerity. We have not debated the real reasons why we want to shift the competence of tourism and assign it to the Ministry of Agriculture. There are two reasons for this shift and they are known to all of us. First of all, there is the tribute - I must say, from the point of view of those who do it, even deserved - to Senator Centinario, who has a particular competence in the field of tourism and has therefore asked to be able to exercise it. The question has obviously been combined with the results of the balance of power between the two parties supporting the Government, and in the balance of power it was necessary for tourism to be moved from one Ministry to another. These are the two reasons why the Government proposes this shift. I believe that for reasons of this nature many things can be done: we see that even the advisors of the State Railways, the governance of RAI, can be appointed. I believe, however, that it is very different that, for political reasons, this kind of architecture of the institutions of the State is touched. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is a very different thing: the shift of competences for political reasons is something that we have never seen before. I say this and address the Senate Assembly: Senators can vote in two ways, i.e. in favour of the Government's proposal or against it. If they vote in favour, it will mean that they will have followed a purely political approach, because there are no rational reasons for the transfer of competence. In this case, then, I would ask my fellow senators to avoid telling us, please, that Parliament loses its powers, because it loses them when we avoid exercising them in order to follow a wrong political indication. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u51	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, until the words "Suppress the article" are deleted. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.2 are therefore not included. Let us move on to Amendment 1.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Rampi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.4 tabled by Senator Tiraboschi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Battistoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.13, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.13, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.6 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (correct text), tabled by Senators Grassi and Pirovano. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.9, tabled by Senators Pirovano and Grassi. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.10 is withdrawn. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senator Pagano and other senators, identical to amendment 1.12, tabled by Senator Mirabelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1,500, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G1.1 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u52	Mr President, we have already had the opportunity, at successive meetings of the Commission, and now in this House, to evaluate the measure in general, and in particular this amendment. There are two urgencys to deal adequately with the hydrogeological disruption and all the other issues relating to it, which we have been talking about for a few hours now in this House. The first is to overcome the fragmentation of powers, which has unfortunately led to the ineffectiveness of many interventions that were born under the best wishes. The other thing to do is to work beyond the extraordinary nature of the interventions, focusing in particular on the issue of prevention. Of course, alongside this, there is the need for investment. The fragmentation was precisely why previous governments constituted the mission units, of which much has been said here. The central issue, Mr President, is that there is a need for unified governance to overcome fragmentation, and unitary governance is the only way to truly achieve a policy, a truly effective and efficient general policy. The ratio for which it had been placed under the competence of the President of the Council of Ministers, and therefore of great personalities - the architect Renzo Piano was mentioned earlier, but we could also mention others - was exactly in this reasoning. I refer to the capacity of a lean structure, which is capable of coordinating interventions, of being effective, of overcoming fragmentation, capable of being credible, of being the only interlocutor with the local authorities, with the municipalities, with the metropolitan cities, with the Provinces, with the Regions and with all the national and territorial authorities of which our nation does not lack. Mr President, as I said before in the context of the preliminary question, the damage caused by seismic events in our country amounts to 3.6 billion a year; almost a third of the total number of municipalities in our nation have been affected by the third hydrogeological disaster since the early 1970s. Mr President, there are 14 bodies that are called upon to monitor these individual interventions today. Do we think that if we bring back the powers of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, we will have a structure that will guarantee efficiency in efficiency? Do we think that these 14 monitoring bodies will have a reduction from the point of view of government action, or will there be further fragmentation? In the 1,500 yards that have been opened in these three years we have already invested a total of 13 billion; the measure of which the rapporteur spoke in his reply, what we are examining today, even had to reduce expenditure; in fact, no expenditure has been reduced, not even from the point of view of the organization. Mr President, we are not here to defend preconceived improvements which can always be made. It is quite clear that when dealing with government activities, all actions and decisions must be called into question, assessing the strengths and weaknesses, but in this case, as President Zanda already said, the real motivation of this measure - and today's debate also makes it clear - is a division of powers that totally ignores the aim of efficiency and effectiveness for citizens, but responds instead - this yes - to a neospartatory logic from the Cencelli manual. It is clear that these are the reasons why we have proposed amendment 2.1; a draconian amendment that does not want to defend the status quo, but the fact that some strategic interventions were finally coordinated and made in our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u53	I warn the Senators of the Democratic Party Group who still have 3 minutes and 40 seconds at their disposal. The remaining amendments and the agenda are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u54	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 2.7 and 2.9 and against the remaining amendments. The opinion on the G2.1 agenda is in favour when we accept the following rewording which we call for the deletion of the words: "without any additional burden on public finances and on the basis of the human resources available to instrumental and financial legislation."
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u55	Mr President, I agree with that of the rapporteur, except for Amendment 2.9, for which we propose the following rewording, with a view to deleting point (b) and finally adding the following words: "In paragraph 6, replace the words: "for the year 2018" by the following: "already transferred to the autonomous budget of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and available".
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u56	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.3 tabled by Senator Tiraboschi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.4 tabled by Senator Tiraboschi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.5, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u57	I would ask for the vote and I would like to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u59	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, representatives of the Government, we have always supported, with regard to this decree-law, that we shared Article 2 and the abolition of the mission structure on hydrogeological failure to the Presidency of the Council, for a structural return, with more powers, within the Ministry of the Environment. It is precisely the data provided to us during the debate in the Commission and today in this House that shows us how urgent it is to intervene systematically, with short-, medium- and long-term projects, on the hydrogeological failure, on a reality that sees almost 80% of the Italian municipalities in areas affected by hydrogeological failure, obviously with different seriousness. We need a project that has not only the characteristics of intervening on the emergency or for a limited time, but that is framed within a Ministry that, as far as I am concerned, can only be the Ministry of the Environment, with a specific mission. With Amendment 2.6 we are putting forward a proposal which, alas, has not been accepted. In the mission structure in this period of time, however, there had been accumulated experience, personal, know-how, which would be absolutely necessary - at least this is the proposal of the amendment - to transfer within the Ministry itself. In fact, as can be seen from the other amendment that we have tabled, 2.8, which proposes, even in a provocative way, that competitions be held at the Ministry of the Environment, there is a real need. I hope that, after the permanent, structural transfer within the Ministry of the Environment, we will once and for all address the issue of staff and specialized staff. We are now moving on from precarious to precarious, from ISPRA and the Ministry of the Environment, so when we take on such important competences, I think it would be useful to address the issue of human resources as well. In this case, I would like to ask for the vote on Amendment 2.6, which proposes that those human resources within the mission structure and which have now returned (because they were commanded) to the ministries and offices of origin be transferred, together with the financial resources, in a functional way, within the Ministry itself.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u60	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.6, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.7, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Pinotti, I kindly invite you to extract the card in the post next to yours, since the senator is not present. We move on to Amendment 2.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.8, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2,100 is withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.9 (text 2), tabled by the Commission, which incorporates the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We move on to agenda G2.1. I ask the first presenter, Senator Vanin, if she accepts the rewording proposed by the government. VANIN (M5S). Yes, Mr President, I accept that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G2.1 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u61	Mr President, the opinion is against Amendments 3.1 to 3.9. The opinion is in favour of Amendments 3.10 and 3.11. It is also opposed to amendment 3.12 and in favour of the remaining amendments 3.13 to 3.15.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u62	Mr President, the opinion is in accordance with the Government with the exception of Amendment 3.10 for which we are calling for a rewording. Precisely, in point (b), paragraph 4-a, after the words "are defined" are defined, we ask to add the following: "with invariance of the human, instrumental and financial resources available to the legislation in force."
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u63	I would ask the rapporteur whether he agrees with the Government's proposal. CORBETTA, rapporteur. Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.2 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u66	IORI (PD). Mr President, I would simply like to take up a very brief reflection on this issue, which has been dealt with in a number of previous speeches, concerning the singular in the title and in the text of Article 3 concerning the family. In fact, strong social changes that have occurred in recent decades have greatly altered the structure, role and appearance of the family. Today we are faced with a constellation and a plurality of families. So, we can't talk to the singular anymore. It's not just a grammar thing. The same regulation of the census, the regulation and the ISTAT data tell us that the classical modal family is reduced to little more than 30 percent, instead of a plurality of family models that include the families reconstituted in second union, the single parent families, the single personal families, adoptive, foster. I therefore believe that continuing to speak of family to the singular is detrimental to plurality, and inappropriate to our time and is also offensive to those children who are in these different families, some of whom are discriminated against also by the words of Minister Fontana, who said that children of same-sex couples cannot be recognized. We like it or not, these children have not chosen in which family to be born, so they are entitled to be recipients of care, educational attention by their parents in any context. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u67	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.3 tabled by Senator Iori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). It is therefore excluded from amendment Tit. 1. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.4, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.5 tabled by Senator Tiraboschi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.6 tabled by Senator Tiraboschi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.7 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.8, tabled by Senator Iori and other senators, up to the words'(d) '. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 3.9 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.10 (text 2), tabled by the Commission, which incorporates the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 3.11, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.12, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 3.13, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 3.14 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 3.15 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u68	Mr President, I am against Amendments 4.1, 4.2, 4.8 and 4.9. As far as Amendment 4.3 is concerned, as we said in the Commission, we are asking for it to be changed to the agenda, which could be accepted as a recommendation, otherwise the opinion is against it. I call on the authors to withdraw Amendments 4.4 and 4.5, otherwise the opinion is against it. I am in favour of amendment 4.6 and amendment 4.10 with a definition of drafting: in paragraph 3-d (b), the words: "third paragraph" must be replaced by the words: "fourth period". I am also in favour of amendment 4.0.1 (text 2), subject to the following rewording: in paragraph 1, delete point (c) and after paragraph 1 add the following point: ==References====External links== The administrations concerned shall ensure that the human, instrumental and financial resources available to existing legislation are implemented in accordance with this Article. I am also in favour of amendment 4.0.2 (text 2), subject to the following rewording: " 0a ) to Article 1, paragraph 8, replace the words "by decree of the President of the Republic to be issued pursuant to Article 17, paragraph 4-a of Law No 400 of 23 August 1988" with the following: By decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, adopted pursuant to Article 4a.' Finally, I am in favour of amendment 4.0.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u69	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u70	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u73	MARGIOTTA (PD). Mr President, I will be very quick, given the time available to the Group. Casa Italia was an important intuition of the Renzi Government, developed with the essential contribution of Renzo Piano, a senator for life and great architect but not only, also of scientists of clear fame such as Professor Azzone, at the time rector of the Politecnico di Milano. It was recalled today that in the last parliamentary term we had a very high-level debate on a report by Renzo Piano, to which all the Groups participated with great sharing. But what is it, or should I say unfortunately what was the Casa Italia project? Essentially the transition from the culture of emergency to a culture of prevention, intervening on real estate. I heard that majority senators also insisted on this issue. The Italian heritage is as beautiful as at risk, in the historic centers, and sometimes much less beautiful, if not ugly, but equally insecure in the suburbs built in the sixties. An extraordinary project designed for the safety of Italians... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u74	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.2, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). With regard to Amendment 4.3, it has been requested to turn it into an agenda. Rapporteur, do you confirm the request?
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u75	Yes, Mr President, we are calling for amendment 4.3 to be changed to the agenda, which could be accepted as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u76	Senator D'Arienzo, do you accept the rapporteur's proposal? D'ARIENZO (PD). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 4.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u79	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, the amendment to our examination with the following two concerns the projects that were under way by Casa Italia. Once we decided on the cancellation of Casa Italia, as a Democratic Party, we considered it appropriate and necessary that the projects related to the report on the promotion of the safety of natural risks, the project ten yards and the map of natural risks should be maintained, even at the head of the Presidency of the Council. Actually, from what we understand, most people want to erase everything. How can we not then express concern, since there is not only downgrading, but also the actual deletion of an experience that we consider positive, also because it is innovative compared to the past? [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u80	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 4.3, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators, until the words of the Council. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 4.4 are therefore not included. and 4.5. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.6, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.8, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 4.9, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.9 tabled by Senator D'Arienzo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4.10 (correct text), tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.1 (text 3), tabled by Senators Grassi and Pirovano, which incorporates the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). On Amendment 4.0.2 (text 3) I would like to ask the President of the Commission for his opinion on the rewording of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u81	Mr President, the reformulation does not affect the opinion of the Budget Committee, which therefore remains unchanged.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u82	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.2 (text 3), tabled by Senator Grassi. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4.0.4 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment Tit.1 is precluded by the rejection of amendment 3.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u85	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is abstaining from the Decree-Law No 86 on the reorganization of the powers of the Ministries. With regard to tourism, we do not think it is relevant to what Ministry to aggregate it, to cultural goods rather than to MISE, rather than to the environment, rather than to agriculture. Obviously, because of the importance that tourism has for this country, we would also have seen a Ministry itself: this would give importance to this strategic sector of Italian politics. (at 19.34) (Follow Steger). Although we, as a South Tyrolean, have a primary competence in this area, I will devote a few words to this matter, especially on the subject of tourism, which is very close to us. If we think of the beauties, the cities of Rome, Venice or Florence, the many cities of art, the medieval villages, the varieties of the landscape, the most beautiful mountains in the world, the Dolomites, the majestic peaks of the Western Alps, the hills, the beautiful sea, the Italian cuisine, the Made in Italy, the creativity of the Italians, really Italy would have the potential and should be the number one tourist destination in the world, more than France, more than Spain and more than the United States of America, that are in front of us. I said that it is not important where to aggregate it, but it is important to give professionalism to this Ministry. If a tourism operator is now in charge of this Ministry, I hope that he will bring his professionalism and experience in this field. This really serves, because you have to pack the many tourist products well; the Ministry will have to do an intense and sometimes difficult job of coordination. But in tourism there is not a need for a top down strategy, but a bottom up strategy, that is to enhance and coordinate the many offers and the many tourist products of the many destinations of Italy. The Ministry should not impose, but rather have the task of proposing, facilitating, encouraging and, above all, organising tourism. It has been said that it takes the organization of tourism and tourist proposals in the various parts of the country, although I say that the strength of each country and of every tourist destination are the operators themselves, rather than the Ministry, more than politics. They're the ones who do the products in the end or they don't do them well. For the most part, Italians are doing their job well, but it takes even more professionalism and above all it requires the help of a government that sees tourism as the main objective of a political strategy for the country. I do not want to dwell on the details, because we will certainly have the opportunity to discuss them further, but I want to say to the Minister above all one thing: it is not only tourism policy that makes tourism, but also an efficient infrastructure policy, an efficient mobility policy and we also need security throughout the country, because the tourist comes only where he feels safe and feels good. We therefore need political strategies that do not only concern tourism; these are very important for tourism, but I think that the Government must do teamwork, because only in this way can we get where Italy must go: Italy must be the number one country in the world in the field of tourism for the reasons I have explained. So I close by confirming our vote of abstention and I repeat that in our opinion the most important thing is not where tourism is combined; the most important thing is that tourism is made a strategy in this country. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u86	Colleagues, if you agree, I would now give space to a further statement in an explanation of vote, and then postpone the continuation of the debate on the draft law in title to tomorrow's sitting, thus leaving room for the speeches at the end of the sitting. As no comments are made, so it remains established.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u89	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I declare the Senators of the Free and Equal Group voting against the bill of conversion of the decree-law to our examination. We have given a very articulated judgment also in the matter, as has been seen also during the voting of the articles, and I also say with extreme clarity that we have shared some choices, such as that - I recalled just now - to suppress some mission structures and bring the competences, as in the case of the mission structure against the hydrogeological failure, within the competent Ministry. It was and is a judgment, as far as we are concerned, articulated. The vote against is essentially linked to what has appeared to us, from the beginning, a series of ideological choices that are the basis of the decree-law. I am speaking specifically of some dangerous ideological choices, because at the very moment when a Ministry of the Family and Disability is created, in our opinion, it is also a dangerous operation for people who may think they want to help. On disability, skills, as is well known, are varied and articulated and range from work to social policies, but it has always been attempted - and it was the point of civilization and respect of the people to whom it had arrived - to consider policies on disability first and foremost political to the person: the person was at the center of the attention of administrative activity and policies to be put in place. This is a choice that we consider dangerous because it can give rise to ghettoization operations: this is the problem that is before us. Of course, I hope that doesn't happen. Then there is the completely ideological imprint of the statements that accompanied the creation of this Ministry by Minister Fontana, which were very serious statements of discrimination, not only towards the many articulations of families and stratifications that have been produced in our society today, but discriminating - I would like to remind you here - towards children. That was the most serious thing and it was also what marked our decision to vote against it. I have heard quoted the issues that should be the subject of this Ministry, such as the demographic crisis in the country: once again, operations are carried out that are shortcuts. All senators know better than I that the issue of the demographic crisis in the country is very complex and needs active labour policies, on the home and the fight against precariousness, because this is the real problem and we will talk about it even when we discuss the decree dignity. On the other hand, here we are doing only and only an ideological operation, under the sign, once again, of the League, which is the party - President, you will be very happy - which gives the political and political footprint to all the policies and choices of this Government. As far as tourism is concerned, I do not repeat the choice made. We have only one concern, which coincides with what Mr Errani said. Unfortunately, in this country, the truth is that tourism has always been a bit Cinderella, so every government has loved to move it from one side to the other, completely neglecting the construction of a national project in an area that should be the core business of our country. Well, once again, the choice made with this decree-law to detach it from the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and to combine it with that of agriculture responds to a number of reasons, which we know well, linked to the balances of the Government and of other nature, but which have nothing to do with what should be the work to do on tourism. We hope - and we are sure that Minister Centinario will do so - that the need for investment and policies which are highly articulated in a national project will be taken into account. Tourism is certainly based on the cultural heritage of our country (we have 60% of the cultural heritage of the world, there would be more!), as well as our food and wine resources are fundamental, environmental resources are as important (environmental tourism, too, is a new path on which to invest). All this is true, but we need a project that makes the investment in tourism a mission for the country. They are jobs and development. The growth figures tell us that a great deal can be done, but from this point of view we need - I repeat - a national policy and not just a coordination of regional policies. It is not only promotion, but it is ability to invest and build a real and lasting project. The reasons for reflection also on this decree-law and work, through the amendments we have tabled, have been varied and articulated and also the choice present in Article 2, both with regard to the mission structure, and with regard to Casa Italia, does not come from positions, as far as we are concerned, preconceived or ideological. 19.44 (De PETRIS follow-up). It is a challenge that we, at this point, launch and that we had tried to launch, for example, by moving not only resources, but also human resources within the Ministry of the Environment, because we are convinced that bringing them back in a structural way within Ministries is fine. We do not like, however, at all, the idea that, once again, it can only be a matter of accommodation within the Ministries. We must invest in this, this is the future of our country. I say to my colleagues 5 Stars that, with regard to the ideological choices made with regard to the Ministry of the Family and Disabilities, they should reflect very well; I do not think that you can share - I hope you do not do so and that you distance yourself - the statements they have accompanied and that continue to accompany this blessed newly created Ministry. For all these reasons, precisely because of the wrong choices in particular about this Ministry, which are - I repeat - ideological, dangerous and harmful precisely to the people who are most fragile, we confirm our vote against. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u90	As announced by President Calderoli, given that the Conference of the Leaders is scheduled for 8 p.m. and having regard to the timetable, I shall refer the further examination of the bill to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u91	I'm asking to speak for myself.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u93	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must apologise to this House and to the Presidency for my inadequate behaviour with Senator Laus some time ago. Allow me, however, to explain why I had that inappropriate behavior. Laus, until recently, ran a multi-service job offering cooperative, so for outsourced workers, let's say, and paid them - and still pays them - between 3,50, 4 and 5 euros. This whole thing started a while ago. FARAONE (PD). But didn't you have to apologize? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, do you intervene on a personal basis, so your apology for the behavior? AIROLA (M5S). I still have to apologize to Senator Laus. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So you're apologizing and motivating your apology. AIROLA (M5S). I have three minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're welcome. AIROLA (M5S). In 2012 Laus was head of the cooperative and brought together, when he was vice president, among other things, of the Committee on Culture at the Regional Council, his workers and asked who did not want to lower his salary. The workers who raised their hands were fired. He was then sentenced by the court of appeal, the fourth criminal section of Turin, because the blackmails were... FARAONE (PD). But didn't you have to apologize? MALPEZZI (PD). What is the end of the session? Personally! He's not talking about himself! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm sorry, he's acting personally and he's motivating because he's had a reaction in this House, if at least we want to listen to him before we criticize him. He's acting personally, so I'm making him talk for as long as he needs to talk, he's not insulting anyone. May I direct the Chamber, please? Please, Senator. AIROLA (M5S). I'm motivating my anger of that day. One of those workers, Altieri, unfairly fired and then, in fact, wrongly recognized, worked at the movie museum and wrote to Ken Loach, a director who has been dealing with workers' problems for years, that that year did not come to collect the special prize for him. That prize remained there until this problem was resolved. Even today that Laus left the Rear in the hands of relatives (wife and husband) workers continue to be paid 3.50 euros. What I want to say is that when I met him long ago (he was still counselor), Laus told me that it was the law that allowed him to pay so little; I told him that even in the nineteenth century in Virginia you could have a field of free workers, but that I would not do it because it is a moral issue, not market and you can pay 9 euros, that is the right price, the workers even without the need of a law. FARAONE (PD). Time! Time! AIROLA (M5S). So I'm going to apologize to Senator Laus when he pays the 9 euros without law or with the citizenship income we're going to vote for. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] FARAONE (PD). You should have apologized, ma'am! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, Senator Airola, you've finished your time.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u94	I'm asking to speak for myself.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u95	If you can get respect for the times, I'll give Senator Laus a chance to talk, but I don't think there's a need for a continuous choir.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u96	Mr Laus (PD). Thank you, President. How much time do I have? Three minutes? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, Senator Laus, personally. I hope it doesn't become a senator debate. However, speak to the Presidency and have three minutes; as do all the other senators. Mr Laus (PD). President, I must thank Senator Airola - but I say this from the bottom of my heart - for putting me and putting us in a position to enter the heart of a problem. In the next few days we will examine the decree of dignity, now under discussion in the House. For about ten years the Movimento 5 Stars... [[Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u97	Senator Airola, Senator Airola! Mr Laus (PD). It's not a basement, it's the Senate, the Senate!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u98	[[Senator Airola's comments. Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u99	I could do the same joke at other times.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u100	Please continue your intervention, Senator Laus. Mr Laus (PD). As I said, the decree of dignity is in the process of being approved. The current Government has the possibility to put entrepreneurs like Laus in condition to not pay legitimately, with collective agreements signed by the trade union organizations more and comparatively more representative, with a gross hourly pay that is also - alas - 5 euros. These are the reasons why Senator Laus and other colleagues finally fire a law providing for the minimum hourly wage, because there are about 3 million workers who fail to receive decent and dignified income. Yesterday was the Democratic Party: and you say it was wrong. Today there are you, there are Senator Airola's colleagues: then, put these 3 million workers in a position to receive a salary at the end of the month higher than the one that will deliver the citizenship income. [[Applause from the PD Group]] As for the sentence - and I am finished - Senator Laus has never been convicted. It is a cause of work and the company has legitimately sent home a worker who has put in place behavior decidedly reprehensible. The judge considered that there was an unjust case and the worker was compensated. I wanted to thank Senator Airola for his apology, but he probably doesn't know the meaning of education or apology. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u103	ANGRISANI (M5S). Mr President, the news of the death of Corporal Major De Mattia has left the city of Angri, and not only, in the deepest dismay. Of course, when a 25 - year - old boy decides to take his own life, it is society that has to question why and what has not been done so that this distressing and terrible episode does not occur. Enrico De Mattia, citizen of Angri, coming from the 1st Regiment of Sardinia, framed in the operation Safe roads, last Saturday ended his life using the gun of ordinance while he was in service at Palazzo Grazioli. However, the death of Henry must be made clear, with the greatest possible attention. The episode must be deepened as it is the third suicide in six months of a military engaged in the Safe Roads operation. The military engaged in this operation follows a special theoretical and practical training process, so as to ensure a prompt operational response to the various situations and always adapted to the circumstances. Given the delicacy of the topic, however, it would be necessary to put in place an appropriate system of monitoring the psychological state of all members of the Forces of the Order and the Armed Forces in order to face the chronic stress disorder that - ahinoi - too often generates the horrible choice of suicide. The state must support its military, promoting paths of support and psychological support to the men of the Armed Forces. Enrico was a life-full military man, a fellow countryman of ours who, unfortunately, decided to end it. For every young life we lose, a piece of hope for a better future is gone. I urge everyone who lives with difficulty to turn to their loved ones and never abandon themselves to tragic solutions. Today in this Assembly I wish to express, also on behalf of the whole Movement, my deepest condolences to the whole De Mattia family, and to you, Henry, I can only say: Rest in peace, Major Corporal. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u106	SICLARI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, representatives of the Government, it is my duty to speak now, in this House, at the end of our work, as a citizen, as a doctor, as a representative of the institutions and as a leader of the Forza Italia Group in the Senate's Health and Health Commission, in order to point out to the House how serious this is happening in recent weeks at the metropolitan hospital in Reggio Calabria, particularly in the E.R. The hospital lacks first of all health care, as you all know - since I have been talking about this since 5 June every day - for which I asked Mr Grillo last Thursday to put an end to the police station. I hope that, when I receive your reply, the Minister will finally be able to communicate to me and to all the Calabrians the end of a police station that has lasted for eleven years. For a long time patients arriving at the E.R. of Reggio Calabria with fractures, dislocations and distortions have been stabilised with pieces of cardboard. For those who had not heard I am ready to repeat it all night: the problem is that today in Calabria the rescue for those who have a fracture is provided with pieces of cardboard. This is what was denounced a few hours ago by the "Corriere della Calabria" (Corriere of Calabria). It happens at night, when the orthopedics department is closed due to the shortage of personnel operating only from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., it is as if in the evening, from 8 p.m. to 8 p.m., we all become immune to diseases: none of us get sick anymore or risk accidents; therefore, in the evening we are all calm that nothing will happen to us. Well, patients are managed in the E.R. by doctors and nurses who do the best they can, but do not have the right tools. Citizens are not only suffering from the illness or the accident they have suffered, but are suffering mainly from social injustice, which we are denouncing every day in this House. That is why - I repeat - I ask Mr Grillo to put an end to the police station. Whatever other choice you make about Calabria, it will be useless for Calabrian health care. I want to conclude by saying that we Calabrians are tired, like the whole of the South, of not feeling Italian citizens. The South is Italy. The South is Italy. The South is Italy. Imagine a child with a broken fracture in the only hospital - they also closed the orthopedics department in Soverato - who is stabilized with a piece of cardboard or, an elderly person with a femur fracture. We must act as urgently as possible. According to the Agenas indicators, there has been a very serious deterioration in health care in Calabria for years now: it has been eleven years of commissioning. Our only hope has remained the journey of hope, but those who have no money die. You of the majority must intervene and put an end to this Commission: welcome our call for cooperation for the health of all. Forza Italia asks this. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u108	Senator Laus, since at 8 p.m. I have to close the sitting, as the Conference of the Leaders has also been convened, would you mind speaking tomorrow? Mr Laus (PD). I have three minutes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, I'll give you two minutes. Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, I should like to share with the House the news of the serious incident of violence in Moncalieri on Sunday evening, at the gates of Turin, where a young athlete of Nigerian origin was injured following the launch of eggs by a car. The girl, just 22 years old, suffered a corneal injury, risking surgery. A few hours earlier, again in the territory of Turin, there was a demonstration in the square to condemn the recent aggression against another young man: a 19-year-old student was beaten to death on the street because - I quote from the reconstruction of the facts - he walked too gay. Not even the worst bad news, which has been somewhat re-evaluated lately by a certain political class, can justify those who, like Minister Salvini, deny the increase of episodes of intolerance and discrimination in our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u109	[[Applause from the PD Group]] No justification is acceptable in the face of such an ignoble drift that it is the task of the institutions to fight firmly and rigorously. Yet - when it is said that there is no limit to the worst - someone tried to justify the unjustifiable: Minister Di Maio did so - for example - when in an interview he dismissed the racism alarm in Italy as a set-up of the Left against the government ally [[Applause from the PD Group]] And all this happens in the tomb and deafening silence of Prime Minister Conte, the lawyer of the Italians, but not of all Italians evidently, not of the young victim of racism in Moncalieri, not of my young citizen attacked because homosexual. However, it is above all us, ladies and gentlemen, who have the task of acting and setting a good example: to act on behaviour before crime; to act culturally before judicially. If you just dwell on... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause and comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u110	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-28.ana.u111	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Tuesday, July 31, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) LAUS (PD). Shame on you, President! [[Comments from the PD Group.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is I'll call you right back. [[Protests from the PD Group.]] What are you talking about? [[Senator Laus' protests.]] I'll call you back for the second time. I'm gonna sign up for the record. FARAONE (PD). (At the address of Senator Airola.) You made him talk beyond the word. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Laus, I asked you to intervene tomorrow, but you wanted to intervene now and I gave you two minutes. [[Protests from the PD Group. Senator Laus' comments.]] Do not worry that all this will be brought to the examination of the Presidency Council. Senator Laus, you can leave the Chamber now. [[Senator Laus' protests.]] I do not allow you to address the Presidency in this way. Step away from the Chamber, Senator. I call on Parliament's assistants to help Senator Laus leave the Chamber to allow the Presidency to play its role. Mr Laus (PD). I'm leaving voluntarily. You have to set an example. [[Senator Pharaoh's protests.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pharaoh, do you want to follow Senator Laus? Please! FARAONE (PD). They must accompany me, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, you can sit alone, so I'll stop. Mr Laus (PD). You're ashamed! Get on the rooftops! He can't set an example. COMINANCES (PD). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is not possible at this stage. FARAONE (PD). I'm gonna go if they come and take me by weight. You have to preside decently and you never do that. Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pharaoh, you can leave alone, so I'll close the session. Don't make it any worse. Sit down. (Senators Laus and Pharaoh leave the Chamber). The decisions of the Conference of Leaders will be communicated at tomorrow's sitting. The session is adjourned. 8:05 p.m.
