ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Castaldi, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u3	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 955, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report, a preliminary question was rejected and the debate on the matter of trust took place.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u4	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u6	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after abolishing poverty in one stroke, today's government and the majority perform another prodigy and abolish corruption. They have explained to us that, thanks to the cancellation of the prescription, which will take place after the sentence of first degree, even if of absolution, for criminals it will no longer be possible to escape the right punishment. The perfidious bugs will remain with a palm of their nose: an effective propaganda commercial, but a bad service to the truth, lords of the majority and the government. It is a fake news, which ignores incontrovertible facts, in vain remembered from several parts even yesterday during the general discussion, that is to say that almost 60% of criminal proceedings are actually prescribed in investigation, while another 20 percent within the definition of the first degree. The reform obviously has no effect on them, but the majority and the government do not care, it is a negligible detail and it is known that, when the details bother, it is enough to ignore them. However, it will be said that there is still a 20% of crimes: a little bit for an epochal reform, but better than nothing. Unfortunately, however, this is not even the case or, better to say, it will not be the case for the next eleven or twelve years at least. As we know, the reform comes into force in 2020 and is not retroactive, because the statute of limitations is an institution of substantive law. Less serious crimes are prescribed in seven and a half years that, as a result of the Orlando reform, can reach up to ten and a half years. For the most serious, such as corruption, sin and concussion, you get to fifteen, sixteen or eighteen years. If arithmetic is not an opinion, the first effects of this epoch - it is to be said - reform, will manifest themselves in our legal system not before June 2030 and this only for the less serious crimes and however net of the numerous causes of suspension of the prescription, which will of course continue to operate in the process. For the peculate the first effects will be from 2036, for the concussion from 2038, for the corruption between 2035 and 2038, depending on the severity of the individual case. The question therefore arises spontaneously. Was it worth it, Lords of the Government and the majority, to trample on the Constitution, the principle of the reasonable duration of the trial, the European Convention on Human Rights, the very foundations on which our juridical civilization has been founded for centuries, for a rule which - if I may say so, and I have many doubts about it - will have its effects when the majority of us have been retired for a long time, but which, unfortunately, since today, for a sort of heterogeneous purpose, will immediately produce all its negative effects, transforming itself into the alibi with which to divert attention from any real distortion of the system, be it organizational, management or regulation? We believe it would have been much more serious to undertake, for example, to study how to intervene on the four judicial offices in which about half of all the prescriptions occur, namely the court of appeal of Rome, Naples, Turin and Venice, according to the same data offered by the Ministry. It could then have been studied how to simplify and streamline the procedure, eliminating redundant and unnecessary formalities, for example, in the field of notification. It would have been possible to intervene also on the real causes of the length of the trials, which are not due as all statistics tell us, if not in part, to the defensive activity - against which, gentlemen of the Government, Minister, it would have to be greater respect - but the shortcomings of the offices and staff, the frequent transfers of judges or their absences, the defects or defects of notification of witnesses or parties by the prosecutor and so on. Or, again, study how to deflate the processes, broaden the recourse to alternative institutions, such as oblation, compensation as cause of extinction of the crime, testing, irrelevance of the fact, etc.; or, again, finally operating a radical decriminalization, perhaps taking care this time not to put on the same level those who take possession of things of little value and those of millions of euros, as the Government led PD in the last legislature (every reference to facts and people whose recent judicial chronicle has dealt with is purely wanted); or again, to make just one last example, introducing in the Constitution the non-appealability by the PM of the judgments of acquittal, in compliance with the principle, which should be sacred in a State of law, of reasonable doubt. Of course, they are all more difficult and complicated than the easy and illusory road that Government and majority have chosen to follow and of much less propagandistic impact, which in reality remains the real purpose of this manifest norm. After all, paraphrasing Don Abbondio, one could say that the sense of responsibility one if does not have it, not if he can give it to himself. However, in this draft law there are also other rules, unfortunately of immediate effectiveness, which we cannot agree with. I refer to Article 6, which, through the disguised lies of the undercover agent, in fact introduces the non-penalty of the provocative agent, even predicting that he can carry out prodromic or instrumental activities and even that he can offer the public official money or any other utility to the obvious purpose of leading him into temptation. It is not, therefore, an activity aimed at preventing and acquiring the evidence of crimes, on which we would be fully in agreement, but at causing them and which, on the contrary, results in another very serious vulnus for the rule of law, the consequences that I fear will be devastating. Finally, I would like to conclude by denouncing the double morale of this majority, which on the one hand reduces the threshold of advertising funding to the parties, while on the other hand, the House rejects an amendment - also shared by the Brothers of Italy - initially presented by the League and then disappeared, like many others, in the fog of the downward compromise. I am referring to the proposal which would have extended the rules of transparency of parties and their foundations to the Rousseau platform. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the Brothers of Italy would have liked to have discussed this matter in this House, not only in order to try to improve the measure on these points just outlined, but also in order to make the most of what is positive. The government, with the imposition of trust, has prevented us and for this reason, too, our vote will be doubly opposed. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u7	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u9	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the intentions of this measure are positive and acceptable, but the way they are declined leaves a number of concerns. Corruption is a deep evil that penalizes the best and honest and distorts the rules of civil life. It was necessary to continue on the path of reforms in order to affirm the full certainty of the law, the absence of which is one of the most serious problems for the development of the country. It is estimated that the slowness of justice costs one point of GDP per year and we all know that it is one of the main obstacles in attracting foreign investment. The measure under consideration, however, has chosen a shortcut. We do this, as usual, for propaganda reasons, for the need to put a flag over the demand for greater justice that comes from public opinion, but leaving a whole series of problems on the table. This applies especially to the prescription. I agree with the need to suspend it, even at the beginning of the criminal trial, as is the case in many other European countries. There are not few cases where the defense aims to achieve the prescription and not the acquittal of the defendant. But the suspension of the limitation, in order to make sense, must be included in an overall review of the process, while this measure only increases the risk of jeopardising the constitutional principle of the reasonable duration of the process. That is why, before eliminating the requirement, we had to simplify the criminal process and reform the system by focusing on substance and not on form, as unfortunately it is now. The choir of protests that has been raised by all the practitioners of justice says a lot about the risks inherent in this rule, not only on the front of guarantees for the accused, but also as regards the clogging of judicial classrooms. The rule on the cover agent had to be defined with greater caution. Here, however, it is more like the provocative agent, that is, a figure who, instead of helping the judiciary to identify crimes, causes people to commit them, and it is a dangerous drift of the role of the state and the relationship it must have with the citizens. And they leave perplexed the rules on non-penalty for the corrupt who repent, as well as those on the ancillary penalties, beginning with that on the perpetual ban to bargain with the public administration, which automatically triggers and deprives the judge of any possibility of evaluation. As with the law on humanitarian permits, the law on self-defense and the famous proposal Pillon, in this case too they try to introduce norms-judgment in our legal system, which limit the discretion of judges to decide case by case. Then there is the whole chapter on party rules. I find it significant that these rules are included in a measure that you call corrupt sweeps, as if to suggest to the public the existence of a close correlation between politics and corruption. I believe that this continuing devaluation of politics is a threat to democracy, also because, as they say, the revolution will devour its children. So enough with this continuous delegitimization of the policy to which you belong. Sooner or later we will have to reflect on the costs of politics, on the forms of financing, an issue on which there has never been the necessary serenity, and which is essential for the proper functioning of democracy. In conclusion, Mr President, we believe that on this measure the Government has once again chosen the path of propaganda, dumping on citizens the inefficiencies of justice and instead postponing issues and critical issues that deserved another approach, other treatment. You have called this law corrupt sweeps and not anti-corruption, like others before you who have worked on this issue. As Senator Balboni said, tomorrow you will say that you have abolished the corrupt, as you have already abolished poverty. And you do that by putting again the question of trust, which freezes Parliament's role and prerogatives. The numbers, from this point of view, begin to be relevant: this is the sixth time that this instrument is used, the second in the Senate. All this only accentuates our negative judgment and it is for these reasons that the Group for the Autonomies will vote against confidence. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV) and Senator Rojc. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u10	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u12	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, as is well known, corruption is a crime without witnesses, without victims, if not the community, and without complaints, with a common interest of the authors in silence and omerty. Corruption undermines the economy in its depths, removes transparency from transactions and procurement, favouring and favouring the corrupters to the detriment of the honest and the most capable. Corruption disperses resources, slows development, is one of the causes of lack of economic growth. Not to mention its indirect costs, which are difficult to quantify but equally significant. An ideal culture ground for corruption to spread and become something even more serious: acceptance that there are no alternatives, the surrender of consciences. As a national anti-Mafia prosecutor, I asked the legislator to include the corruption crime among those within the competence of the Anti-Mafia District Directions, because in this way they could use all the instruments of law enforcement provided for organized crime. Since then I had already made clear the systemic and close connection in certain Italian regions between criminal organizations, political power, public administration and sectors of the economy and entrepreneurship. It could be said, in summary, that today's mobsters are more likely to corrupt than to shoot or intimidate; and investigative evidence clearly shows this. We have to take this into account. An important step has been taken in the last parliamentary term with the introduction of the rules to defend the whistleblower, i.e. those who report an irregularity in the workplace. But with this bill on anti-corruption, two steps are taken, yes, in my opinion. The first is the prediction of a special cause of non-penalty for those who denounce it. I am quite clear that the best plausible result of this rule will be to insinuate a factor of insecurity that diminishes the strength of the agreement between corruptor and corrupt: none of the parties will be able to rely on a common interest to silence and would result therefore a sort of preventive deterrent, an element that dissuades from entering into a pact of corruptive character. This is already a big step forward. The second is the extension to crimes against the public administration of the discipline of undercover operations, which I have discussed extensively. I remember that in our legal system undercover operations are already foreseen for many other crimes, from extortion to kidnapping, from usury to money laundering, from crimes against sexual freedom to aiding illegal immigration, from drug trafficking to the trafficking of waste and - think - also to counterfeiting of trademarks and patents. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u13	Excuse me, Senator Grasso. I invite colleagues who are engaged in private conversations to do so in a tone of voice that does not disturb the senator who is intervening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u14	Grasso (Misto-Leu). If they didn't talk, it would be even better. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That would be too much to ask. Grasso (Misto-Leu). Thank you for the time you're gonna get me back. I do not believe that corruption is any less serious than counterfeiting of trademarks. It is said that this institute serves for terrorists and that it serves for mobsters. It is not true: it has already been extended to all these crimes by our existing legislation. The prescription reform had to be included in an organic project to reform the criminal process, which you now promise to do in just a few months. I remind all of us that, in order to reform the trial, a distinguished jurist like Giuliano Vassalli worked on it for ten years. That now it takes you ten months for reform, as you say, at 370 degrees, seems to me honestly difficult. With regret, having put your trust, it was not even possible to discuss the amendments that I proposed as a justice-time package. After all, you are not interested in solving problems, but in having tin medals to perform on social media and above all to prevent any possible dissent that is already strong in your groups. Friends of the majority, speaking of trust, I have read that on your platform Rousseau a page has been inaugurated for complaints and delations against those among you who betray the principles of Movimento. Congratulations. Congratulations on the idea of democracy you're demonstrating. Let me then make the first delation, here, publicly: all of you, both to the Government and in Parliament, are betraying what you have preached for years, no one excluded, neither those who shut up and obey, nor those who make statements and interviews and then adapt, nor those who criticize, always in due time, when decisions have been taken elsewhere. Trust is becoming a habit; when you start - it's already happened to your predecessors - it's hard to stop. After all, it's much easier to force than to convince. Ask yourself, though, how long can you last, if after a few months every secret vow terrifies you? How long do you think your fake fights can still work in the papers? Instead, it seems to me a reality that you are rather united when it comes to occupying some chairs. How long do you think the game of the parties can last, between fake justiceists on one side and real inquisitions on the other? You were screaming in the square: "Honestness and transparency!" Now you just ask to minimize your attention to surveys worth millions of euros. The same applies to colleagues in the League. Today I, who are in favour of the suspension of the prescription and of those remedies for corruption, will be obliged to vote against the government's confidence, because of the policies of this government I do not agree with anything, apart from what I have just said. On the other hand, you will vote in favour by contract. Don't you feel the irony of it? If I remember correctly, a member of yours, then Minister Roberto Castelli, held the office of Minister Bonafede today, when the League Group voted compactly the law ex Cirielli, which went exactly in the opposite direction, shortening the time limit, after the Parliament had inserted in Article 111 of the Constitution the reasonable duration of the trial, but without taking any initiative to shorten the time of the trial itself. This means voting for confidence for you: to cover with a hypocritical obligation any political contortion, compared to the ideals that you have always defended and supported. I don't change my mind about these issues, unlike you. I would have liked to have discussed this matter and I would have liked, in my own way, to help you improve the text. In the end, as I said yesterday in a newspaper, I would also have voted in favour, but with the imposition of confidence and the impossibility of intervening, you made it impossible. This is another wasted opportunity, because of your weakness in the government, in Parliament and soon - believe me - in the country. For these reasons, with regret, I am voting against the confidence of the Free and Equal members of the Mixed Group. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u17	VALENT (PD). Mr President, there are issues in a democracy which call on all political forces to join forces and the fight against corruption in public administration is certainly one of them. The Democratic Party has always been convinced, in this sense it has always worked and it has also done so on the measure under consideration, despite the deafening and embarrassing silence of the majority forces in the Commission and despite now this scandalous confidence, put only for those who are afraid of the secret votes of its own majority. We will continue to do so especially after the adoption of this measure, talking about the many expectations that have been disappointed outside this House, which will be called upon to touch with hand the absurd price of your propaganda. We can also do this because, not today, we are convinced that the first victim of corruption is just good politics. If lawlessness progresses in public administration, it is politics that becomes less effective, credible and authoritative, and it is its decision-making and intervention capacity that will certainly become less effective. Our vote will be firmly against the draft law under consideration and the question of trust. It will be a vote against the cultural structure of the measure under consideration, which is deeply undemocratic and illiberal, a vote against the poor results pursued by the choices made, but also and above all a vote against the monstrous price, in terms of guarantees, rights and spaces of freedom that is imposed in the name of a simple and supposed fight against corruption. In fact, there is very little to combat genuine and effective corruption within the measure under consideration. For this reason no manifestation of the square, no emphatic tone, no pyrotechnic announcement will be able to cover the voids and ineffectiveness of this provision that shows only the abysmal distance that passes between your ads and the acts of government. Today we have the proof that your pact of power - what you call a contract - is based on the exchange of a mutual interest: to a piece of you free field to ride and use for your own use and consumption the fears of those who ask for more security; to the other, free field to ride in the same way the anger of those who ask for a more honest and transparent policy. But there's more. In the "decree insecurity" you have combined the issue of security with that of immigration; in this measure, the issue of corruption linked to the transparency of parties. You do this with a hidden message, but together clear and dangerous: insecurity brings it to immigrants, corruption the parties. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You do this by testing a dangerous strategy for the democratic fabric and the safeguarding of a rule of law, and all just to come here to the Chamber and to the country to play the part of the moralizers. We are sorry to wake you from this beautiful dream and bring you back with your feet to the ground: on this ground you are out of time; for this script you are no longer credible. No one in this House is responsible for the role of public prosecutor of public ethics, but above all none of you would be allowed this role, least of all to those who sit on the benches of the government. I try to remind all of us, aren't you the ones who have cleared up obnoxious condones by standing up as champions of one of the most dangerous forms of lawlessness for the safety of citizens? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Are you not the ones who have collected and are currently illegally hiding 49 million euros of citizens? [[Applause from the PD Group]] What lesson on transparency could come from those who for years had a movement managed and financed by a private company without any transparency and control? What credibility does anyone gets to fund the election campaign by electronic cigarette producers and then condones their debts with the tax? [[Applause from the PD Group]] What credibility can anyone who knows that the first alliance to fight corruption is that with magistrates and law enforcement agencies, and every day from this Government come attacks that undermine the credibility of the judiciary without you, Minister Bonafede, ever raise your voice to defend that judiciary? [[Applause from the PD Group.]] No, we don't agree to this. We do not allow it precisely because the fight against corruption is a serious, real problem to be tackled with rigour and seriousness. After all, no surprises; at least you should be recognized a consistency in the script. We remember all your vows and words when we tried to do something serious on this ground. This has already been mentioned by my colleagues, and I am therefore proceeding forward: the penalties for crimes against the public administration, the fake in the budget, the conditional suspension of the sentence, the role of the DAC. Let us remember your votes, let us remember your comments. Yet we, today from the opposition, were also ready to improve those interventions because we do not have the presumption - unlike you - to say "after us, the flood". We know that the fight against corruption requires a continuous commitment, on several levels: that the guard of the repressive response should never be lowered, but that, above all, there should be wider prevention tools. That is why today the choice to make, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, required courage, seriousness and rigour, which were completely absent from your majority. Continue in the reform of public administration, increase the quality of service offered primarily through paths of organizational simplification and transparency of procedures: this was the bet to win. From here the legality of behavior passes. This is the only way to make public administration waterproof to corruptive phenomena. I realize that, it is a long and hard road for you, but it is the only way to be serious. You have chosen another: the one based solely on the repression of criminal phenomena. Yours is the easiest way, but unfortunately for the country and for the Italians, even the least effective and together most dangerous. You say you want to make the corrective agreement precarious, and include the undercover agent and the cause of non-penalty. You wanted to raise the shot. You said: if you can't put the provocative agent, with the cause of non-perpetuality we put it in anyway. We have tried to improve this text, and here too we have reminded you of your inconsistency. You recognize with fine words the work and merit of the president of the National Anti-Corruption Authority Canton, but you have completely ignored its suggestions. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] That is not only a good magistrate, it is the President of the National Authority against corruption: your provision is a bill aimed at combating corruption in public administration, if we do not want to call it corrupt sweeps, as you call it. Well, you have ignored the suggestions of the President of the National Anti-Corruption Authority. Outside these classrooms, however, there are entire categories, starting with the judiciary and the lawyer, who have protested and shouted their concerns for weeks against your choices. All these people ask you that that principle of certainty of the penalty, which you rightly invoke, be realized not at the expense of the rights and sacred guarantees of the citizens, but by relying on a judicial machine equipped with strong investigative tools, and also, above all, of greater organizational and instrumental instruments and resources for our judicial offices. Those voices that you have ignored in recent weeks did not ask us for more time to reach judgment, but more resources to get there in less time and in a more effective, incisive and, above all, just way. After a month and more discussion, no one has yet understood how the stop to the prescription should favor the reasonable duration of the processes. The consequence is that there will be endless trials and guilty defendants regardless, to which to charge the suffering of the trial before a final sentence occurs. Wrong is who thinks yours was an unconscious choice. It was a cynical and dangerous operation because you chose to dump the costs of our judicial system on the citizens, on those who - innocent or guilty does not matter - will enter the tunnel of the trial and will not know when they will come out, thus giving the welcome to one of the key principles of our order: the reasonable duration of the trial. I say this to my colleague Mr Giarrusso - who is not here this morning - and to many others who have spoken about it: that principle is not a way of getting away with the alleged culprits, but an act of civilization - and I stress civilization - by a state that cannot demonstrate its accusations at a reasonable time and therefore, and only for this reason, renounces its punitive claim to an alleged innocent. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I repeat: in our order the principle of presumption of innocence is valid until the third degree of judgment. [[Applause from the PD Group]] On the prescription you have deliberately chosen not to look at the data of the current legislation on the use of ancillary penalties, raising the maximum of punishment and non-penalty. You have made minimum standards, but at maximum risk. Make it as if logic and tools used to fight big organized crime and terrorism can automatically apply to the fight for corruption, the big and the lesser, but many prosecutors you have audited told you that it is not (and you know that it is not). I am thinking, in particular, of the derogations you envisage for the use of the trojan, one of the most invasive investigative instruments existing today and that with your choice will be substantially out of the control of the judicial authority. All this happens because you have very much at heart the idea of criminal justice to use only symbolic and emergent. It is no coincidence that one of the first acts of this Government was to throw the prison reform at sea, thus proposing the idea that prison is the only useful tool to punish and repress the crime. On this between 5 Stars and League the communion of intent is maximum, other than division! You give yourself the power to make laws for the sole purpose of responding to the demands of the citizens. You do not realize that the risk is to exercise justice with your thumb verse. But this is no longer justice, but will, it is not a presumption of innocence, but a suspicion of guilt for all. All this reminds us of a historic phase that had nothing to do with democracy! [[Applause from the PD Group]] Against that authoritarian and illiberal drift that undermines the fundamentals of a rule of law and a legal culture, which the whole world envys us, the Democratic Party will always be there. On the other hand, the real fight against corruption is postponed to the point when and with it you postpone the battle for an efficient and transparent administration, as well as for a good policy. But we do not give up: we will continue to work to curb the damage of your irresponsible and propagandistic choices and to ensure that among the citizens the right demand for a good policy and good administration waterproof to corruptive phenomena becomes increasingly distant from propaganda and demagogy and increasingly close to a serious, rigorous and for this effective and concrete policy. For these reasons our vote will be proudly and firmly opposed to this measure and, above all, to this Government. [[Applause from the PD Group]] . Many congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u20	PEPE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I have to acknowledge the consistency of the Democratic Party which, as always happens to it when it does not know what to say, digresses. This morning he talked about topics that have nothing to do with them. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Mr Marcucci (PD). It's about the provision!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u21	I have allowed the intervention of the senator, who has also gone too far, and the House has been silent. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Your speech has been made and now let the senator speak in a respectful Chamber. [[Comments of Senator Bellanova]] Senator Bellanova, I have listened to your hard political intervention and I have not yet had the opportunity to listen to the senator who has just begun. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Please maintain a respect for those who are speaking and I do not want to intervene anymore. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] [[Comments of Senator Bellanova]] Senator Bellanova, I am not going to allow debates in this House. [[Live comments from Senator Bellanova.]] Okay? Have the senator intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u22	Mr President, I could remind my colleagues in the Democratic Party that they belong to that political culture which, under the Severino law, has shortened the limitation periods to help the purse holder of their former party secretary. [[Comments from the PD Group]] I could remind my colleagues in the Democratic Party that they belong to that political culture which on one summer night abolished the abuse of office to help their President-in-Office. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Mr Marcucci (PD). It's about the provision!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u23	Senator Marcucci, I listened to the intervention you made as a Leader, politically even harsh towards the other parties. I would therefore ask you now to allow Senator Pepe to speak in order to allow him to express his political and legislative vision. I would like to ask you, in full respect, for the kindness that this House has shown to you. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] MALPEZZI (PD). We gladly listen to you about the provision!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u24	I would like to remind you, Mr President, that that political culture, at a juncture in this Republic, has even tried to help Sofri, Bompressi and Pietrostefani, because they have a judicialist vision when it suits them, or on the other hand it always guarantees when it suits them. Speaking of terrorists, dear Minister, I hope that President Bolsonaro will finally secure Baptists to the prison fathers for the disgusting crimes he has committed here in Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u25	Senator Pepe, stick to the merits of the measure. The judiciary will do its duty as part of its work.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u26	I come to that immediately, President, and I explain the reasons why the League will vote favorably with regard to this measure, starting from an assumption: the corrupting phenomenon, unfortunately, is rooted and is widespread in Italian politics and public administration. It is therefore a phenomenon that must be swept away by an important law. Among the many things I have heard during this debate (some consistent with the measure, others less), I have not heard of the deterrent effect of criminal law. It is an important effect in a civilized country, even if it is not the only one, because of which citizens must know that the state no longer jokes over certain topics. It is a way of saying to citizens only to commit certain crimes. We are talking, as Senator Grasso said, about crimes that have a very heavy social impact. In fact, the offended part of these crimes is public opinion and the national community or can be a city community: this is what the anti-corruption bill speaks of. It doesn't talk about what I've even heard, that is, manslaughter. Someone mentioned the mayor's responsibility, for example, in manslaughter or manslaughter, but that doesn't exist. Just as there is no office abuse within this measure, which is the trap in which all the municipal administrators (I say it also as mayor) risk to run more frequently. This is a crime that is not included in the measure at all. Another thought I would like to make in relation to the right process and I would like to ask myself and ask this House some questions: is the current process a fair process, yes or no? Is it a process that is celebrated in a reasonable duration, yes or no? Is it a process that is conducted confidentially during the investigation phase, yes or no? Starting from the prescription, few have found that it is an institution that will take effect at the same time as the start of the new criminal trial, that is from 1 January 2020. I therefore believe that this is the most important challenge; to make a process that ensures transparency, effective equality between prosecution and defence and, above all, speedy. In fact, if a trial is held quickly, the state is guaranteed by guaranteeing the penalty to the culprit, but above all the innocent is guaranteed, who is not forced to suffer criminal proceedings for years and years, perhaps coming out unharmed. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I remember that, only in the last thirty years, the cases of judicial errors have been 27,000; some have occurred with the old inquisitory procedure, many others with the current prosecution. The real challenge then is that of the new criminal proceedings. A rule must be seen in its practicability and its effects in relation to the criminal trial. This is the challenge that the Government has accepted with the delegation law that will expire not at the Greek calends, but at the end of next year. It is there that the entire Assembly and the parliamentary assembly, the Senate and the House, will play an important game. I would like to remind my fellow Members who have spoken of freedom over the measure that, from our benches, but I am convinced by everyone, freedom is an essential value: ours, but above all, to some extent, that of others. Someone loved to define it as oxygen: without one doesn't live. I remember that freedom is not decanted, but it is conquered and defended. In the past our fathers have done it with heroic acts, it is up to us to do it with acts of civilization and this act can be the new criminal trial that the law delegates will assign to the government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u29	VITALI (FI-BP). Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address a question of method and then to deal with the substance of the measure. As far as the method is concerned, I would like to say 'welcome to earth'. Minister, I'm talking to you. It seems to me that you were the ones who opposed the governments that put trust; you were the ones who occupied the benches of the government to protest against the acts that limited the freedom and free conscience of the parliamentarians. Today, however, you put your trust precisely in order to control your parliamentarians. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , because you are sure that they could not have voted on this measure either. On the merits, the provision arises as an anti-corruption measure; and what does the prescription have to do with it? It had already been regulated a year ago by Minister Orlando, by the central-left government that had increased it compared to the limits established by the so-called Cyrielli law, of three years; eighteen months after the judgment of first instance and eighteen months after the judgment of second degree; a total of ten and a half years. The previous speaker spoke of a fair trial quickly, you lengthen it and you feel it is unfair, creating a difference of treatment between prosecution and defence! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This was not a rule of which the need was felt, I think rather it is a contractual measure, a do ut des: you give me anti-corruption and prescription, I give you security. However, a country cannot rely on these pacts. I have been a lawyer for more than forty years and I have felt deeply offended, Minister, when you, in a broadcast - in fact you like to attend more talk shows than the Parliamentary Aules - said that the measure will end the tack of the right lawyers who with their devices lengthen the trial. Minister, perhaps you do not know that since 2001 the referrals requested by the lawyer and the defendant automatically suspend the prescription. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] It's no big deal. You extend the limitation, violating Article 111 of the Constitution on the reasonable duration of the trial and Article 6 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and this is contrary to the Pinto law, which established the reasonable duration of the trial in three years for the first degree, in two years for the appeal and in one year the one in the Cassation. It's been six years! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You bring the death of crimes to twenty years: how can you justify the reasonable duration of the trial? What about Pinto law? You are creating a gap in which the state will be forced to pay hundreds of thousands of euros of damages for the unreasonable duration of the trial. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I also tell you one thing, which may seem strange to you: with this law, you achieve exactly the opposite effect to what you set out to do; you with this law want to sweep society from corrupt and corrupt and instead facilitates them, because if you extend the time limit to twenty years, you allow them to continue committing crimes for twenty years, other than sweeping away the corrupt from society! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Do you know, Minister, that in our country every year 7,000 citizens are declared not guilty after having suffered preventive imprisonment? Do you know that one third of the trials end with an acquittal sentence? Has it ever happened to you to defend or become aware of situations of local administrators who have been thrown into prison, who have been pointed out to the public, who have been destroyed in their careers, affections, family, dignity and have been acquitted after ten years, when they no longer needed even an apology from the State? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You have a merit: you want to introduce the eternal process into our system. We thought that there was eternal life: she teaches us, with this provision, that there is the eternal process. Thank you. Mr Laus (PD). That's a good one. [[Applause from Senator Laus.]] VITALI (FI-BP). You regret the fascist twenty years and the code Rocco: you made an even more restrictive rule than that. Of course, we are talking about enlightened lawyers, today you are more interested in contesting likes on your profiles than in responding to the needs of the country. This rule, however, also violates Article 27 of the Constitution, because it replaces the presumption of innocence with guilt. Minister, I do not know what you mean by the trial, but the trial is not a place where the culprit tries to get away with it: it is very often a tragedy that strikes a citizen who is recognized as innocent when he has been destroyed in all his values. Where has the constitutional principle of re-education of punishment gone? What's the point of condemning a person after 15 or 20 years of committing a crime? The person who would atone for the sentence is a completely different person than the person who committed the crime. What reeducation would be possible after so long? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Another inaccuracy, Minister, has always said this in one of the many broadcasts that see you as the protagonist: you said that this is a rule in favour of the injured parties, because there will be no more prescriptions, and you mentioned the example of the disaster in Viareggio. I would like to say that you have said a nonsense, but for institutional respect I say that you have said an inaccuracy. Minister, the injured parties do not want an endless trial, but compensation for the damage and they want it immediately, in certain times, not endless! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You've put the crimes against the public administration in place, comparing them to the mobsters. You have introduced the possibility of using the undercover agent, but in fact, to read the rule well, it is not this, but a real provocative agent, who intervenes not to discover the crime, but to commit it: this is the inability of a state that does not know how to defend the citizens. You have reduced access to penitentiary benefits and are creating the conditions to blow up the detention system, already at the limit; increased penalties and limited access to alternative measures, but when will you launch a penitentiary building and prison police enlistment plan? Make a vicious face, but dump your failures on the system! You have violated the principles of proportionality and reasonableness. I remember that in one of their first releases, first Minister Salvini, then also Minister Di Maio, at some assemblies of associations, said that music would change from that moment: there was no more presumption of guilt and the citizen would no longer be seen by the State as an enemy and the taxpayer as an evader. Congratulations, you did exactly the opposite: to allow indiscriminate access to databases and current accounts of taxpayers, without the control of the judicial authority, and to provide for the ancillary penalty of prohibition from public offices and the prohibition of bargaining with the public administration, even if the penalty is suspended, ensure that the citizen is always seen with prejudice by the State. You don't even have faith in the judiciary, which you claim to boast and protect. You have taken away from the judge the possibility of graduating the amount and duration of the ancillary penalty on the basis of the seriousness of the facts and on the basis of his prudent appreciation. In addition to violating the need for consistency and reasonableness of the system, you have had an impact on the principle of proportionality. If we had to talk about reform, you could not start worse, intervening on the process on the contrary, without reducing its time, but extending it. I address the friends of the League, with whom we voted on the prescription reform, the so-called ex-Cirielli, we have introduced Article 41-a in a stable way, we have modified all anti-mafia legislation and we have increased the penalties for crimes in the public administration: how do you vote on such a measure? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] You are creating a legal monster, of which you yourselves will be victims, but this is of little interest to us, for those who are the creators of their own destiny to mourn for themselves; unfortunately, however, the citizens, even those who voted for you in good faith (which is not you, Minister) and who will certainly not vote for you anymore. In conclusion, this reform is also part of the counter-reforms: like the decree of dignity, which, instead of occupation, guarantees unemployment; the decree of security, which is a mouse born from a mountain; the provision on concreteness, which, on the contrary, creates obstacles and instead of burocraticizing increases the problems; the decree of anticorruption, which instead of suppressing the phenomenon encourages it. I invite you to stop as long as you can and above all to try, for the time you have left, not to do more harm than those we can humanly repair when - and that time is very near - we will return to rule this country. For these reasons, we will vote firmly against this measure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u32	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the legislation we are about to adopt deserves great respect and consideration. I have listened to things that have left me very perplexed, to say the least, because obviously in this House - and fortunately, perhaps, only here - there is no real perception of exactly what corruption means. Corruption, in fact, is a vulnus, a cancer, a tumor that afflicts Italian society for a very long time, without being confronted with the problem with the due courage. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There was someone who, in 2015, visiting the neighborhood of Scampia, an area famous for camorra and not for corruption, said that corruption is the language that mafias use to corrupt public officials. This someone was Bergoglio, the pontiff whom you quoted very often, with the hypocrisy of who then, preaching well, does exactly the opposite. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the FI-BP Group]] . SACCONE (FI-BP). Speak for Lanzalone! MORRA (M5S). Place that in words we all recognize that corruption spits [[. (Comments from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u33	Colleagues, it's worth what I've told the senators of the Democratic Party. We have all spoken and everyone has made a politically strong statement, so I would ask you to be quiet and allow Members to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u34	MORRA (M5S). When Bergoglio claims that corruption spits, everyone clapping and daring, President. When, however, it is necessary to pursue behaviors marked precisely by a corruptive will or, in any case, an acceptance of this will, we are prone to a logic whereby a very hypocritical attitude prevails, which is that of plenary indulgence. Since the 19th century, our country has been commemorating scandals that have affected public administrations and the ruling classes of the same public administrations, without ever being truly prosecuted. Without wishing then to return to the scandal of the Roman Bank, which involved someone who later became President of the Council, without wishing to remember that someone called him the President of the Council of the underworld, without wishing to remember that we need a measure that at least indicates that this State is changing, the right term that I would like to get out of these classrooms is change. A few days ago, Cafiero de Raho - a name that perhaps gives hives to someone who is in here - in a television studio recalled a lesson from Corrado Alvaro, who repeated how the greatest despair that can take hold of a society is the doubt that living honestly can be useless and you, ruling classes, have penetrated this doubt into the minds of many, too many citizens [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Being honest in this country, in fact, is difficult and also demands a kind of courage that very often some individuals do not recognize. I read some passages from Piercamillo Davigo's book "The Corruption System," which should make us all reflect: In my life I had never seen a corrupt man. I imagined it as a visitor, with the green tongue coming out of my mouth, and when the guards brought me this prisoner I was impressed by his absolute normality. Some might even remember Hannah Arendt, because what must strike us is the banality of evil and, therefore, the normality of corruption. Davigo continues: "He was one like me. He could have been my college partner or nightclub partner. Then I put away the note with the notes and the only question I asked was: "But how can a 27 - year - old man sell himself for $250,000?". The defendant remained silent for a while and then answered: "You cannot understand, because it belongs to a world of which these choices are only individual: being honest or dishonest depends on you. I, after 15 days of my arrival, realized that in that office" - a public office - "everyone was stealing! And I also realized that they would not tolerate the presence among them of an honest man." - because honesty cannot be allowed - "They would have kicked me out because I would have been a danger to everyone else. My head office put the 250,000 lire in my hand. I was on probation, and I was afraid I'd be kicked out if I hadn't taken them. I didn't have the courage to be honest." [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So I wonder if it is possible that one should ever accept to live in a country where honesty, which Kant defined as the best policy, demands courage; is it ever possible that the habit is to crime, crime, corruption and being corrupt? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is where we have to change, this is where we have to make a paradigm reversal. To understand what is meant by reversal of the paradigm, let us enter into the substance of the provision. In order to counter - as Senator Grasso said - trivial crimes, but also terrorism and the mafia, we have decided to guarantee, through legislative interventions, premiality to those who, repenting, collaborate. At last we allow, as long as everything is according to the norm, to those who want to end it with a certain world for which dishonesty is the model, to be able to end it and then to pass from crime to the state. I would also add that just a few days ago they handed over the reasons for the appeal of the matter called Mafia Capital, which certified it as a Mafia. In those reasons it was reiterated that someone (Carminati) put in the intimidation, which is typical of the mafia behavior, and someone else (Buzzi) put us the corruption, that is, the propensity to acquire consent from public administrators, public officials who should represent the State but who sell out to satisfy their selfish interests, damaging the State everything and especially the weakest! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Beware that accepting a bribe (because this is how it begins) is tantamount to accepting the behavior of those who show up with the wolf on their shoulders. Accepting the bribe means preventing the tragedy, the tragedy of poverty, from being spent in a land that lives today in a large part of its population, because if the private is allowed unduly to defraud the State, not only is the State being defrauded, but the weakest of the citizens of that State is being defrauded. Therefore, those who fight corruption do so for the values of democracy and nothing else, and you have never practiced this. [[Applause from the M5S Group),]] because you have put the interest of the individual before the common good; the common good which is also safeguarded - and we have done this in the norm - not only by increasing the maximum edittals of punishment, but above all by raising the minimums of punishment. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Paradoxically, in fact, with Tangentopoli and with everything that emerged after we found that the more he denounced himself, the more he condemned himself, the more the penalties were inferior to the past, as if to mean: "Well, we all do, then plenary indulgence for corrupt and corrupters." This is not good! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let me say that, although many people have also complained about this, that I believe that citizens, all voters, will be very happy to know that, at last, those who defraud the State will have difficulty in continuing to negotiate with the State and representing the State. Whoever is a man of state has a huge dignity and even in the humblest of the servants of the State there must be that discipline, that honor that ensures that working for the State - that is to say, for all of us - does not accept any corruptive practice, does not put in place any criminal, paramafious behavior that drowns democracy. Temporary interdicts for those who incur less than two years (but above all final) are then what all honest citizens want, because we can no longer allow the state to be the ATM with which everyone withdraws without having previously deposited! In conclusion, I would remind you that no one was scandalized when - and it is not a joke - the manager responsible for anti-corruption in the Calabria Region was also arrested for corruption. For corruption, damn it! [[Protests from the FI-BP Group]] If then we accept that in the weakest territories, where there must be even more vigilance, even more control, even more transparency, public spending can become food for para-mafia-like practices... [[Protests from the PD Group]] MARGIOTTA (PD). Time, Mr. President! Time! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Morra, I invite you to conclude. Senator Margiotta, I've given everyone two more minutes and we're still fifteen seconds away. The presidency has no preference, no jokes, Senator Marcucci. [[Comments by Senators Malpezzi and Marcucci.]] MORRA (M5S). I know that reasoning of honesty gives problems to many, but I think that all Italians would like the reversal of that sad phrase, which is reported in the text of Piercamillo Davigo from which I drew: we must not be the country where there is a need for courage to be honest; we must be the country where, with pride, one must be honest! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u35	I would like to point out the vote on amendment 1,900, tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the articles of draft law No 955, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. Pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. They asked to vote first, and I granted it, Senators Arrigoni, Bagnai, Bongiorno, Bottici, Dell'Olio, Ferrara, Floris, Magorno, Pesco and Urso. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Parrini is drawn by lot). I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Parrini. (Senator Secretary Castaldi and then Senator Secretary Durnwalder appeal). (In the course of voting, they take over the Presidency - at 10:57 a.m. - at 11:57 a.m.) - 10:58 a.m. -). The senators answered: Abbot, Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Anastasi, Angrisani, Arrigoni, Auddino, Agugussori Bagnai, Barbaro, Bergesio, Bongiorno, Borghesi, Borgonzoni, Bossi Simone, Bottici, Botto, Briziarelli, Bruzzone, Buccarella Calderoli, Campari, Candiani, Cantù, Casolati, Castaldi, Castellone, Castiello, Catalfo, Centinario, Cioffi, Coltorti, Corbetta, Corrado, Crimi, Croatti, Crucioli D'Angelo, De Bonis, De Falco, De Lucia, De Vecchis, Fattori, Dell'Olio, Desscio, Girolamo, Di Marzio, Di Nicola, Di Piazza, Donno, Drago Endrizzi, Evangelista Faggi, Fattori, Feri, Lori, Lori, Felio, Felio, Lorio, Lorio, Lorio, Lorio, Lorio, Ferrolara, Ferro, Ferro Senators say no: Aimi, Alfieri, Astorre Balboni, Barboni, Battistoni, Bellanova, Berardi, Bernini, Berutti, Biasotti, Binetti, Biti, Boldrini, Bonifazi, Bonino, Bressa Caliendo, Carbone, Causin, Cesaro, Ciriani, Cirinna, Beginini, Conzatti, Craxi, Cucca D'Alfonso, D'Arienzo, Dal Mas, Damiani, De Bertoldi, De Petris, De Poli, De Siano, Durnwalder Errani Fantetti, Fazzolari, Ferrari, Ferrazzi, Floris Galliani, Gallone, Garavino, Gasparri, Ghedini, Giammanco, Giro, Grimani Iannone, Iori La Pietra, Laforgia, Lanièce, Laus, Lonardo Mavigorino, Malegorino, Malpezi, Malpezi, Marzi, Giro, Gras, Grimani Ianno The Senator abstains: Monti. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u36	I greet a representative of students of the Istituto comprensivo "Omodeo-Beethoven" in Scisciano, in the province of Naples, who attend our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u37	I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,900, tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the articles of bill No 955, on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust: [[Senators present 282 Senators voting 282 Majority 141 Favourites 162 Contrars 119 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] All amendments and agendas submitted to the draft law are therefore withdrawn or precluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u38	Mr President, I am speaking about the events in Strasbourg the other day. The seriousness of what has happened does not require further notes. Colleagues, I want to remind you how many minutes of silence have taken place: how many minutes of silence have you witnessed? How many statements of condolences, how many "Never again"? Do you remember the colorful chalks? You know the gravity of the event that happened and first of all I join the solidarity with the family of Antonio Megalizzi, our compatriot currently in desperate conditions in hospital. [[Applause]] The place that was hit is the Christmas market at the cathedral in Strasbourg. This market dates back to 1570, it is a tradition that pertains to our deepest roots, those Christian roots sinfully denied by some of us, but well present for our enemies. Mr. Cherif Chekatt, the culprit they are searching for, already known to the Forces of the Order for extreme positions, has a characteristic in common with the culprits of a thousand other events in Europe and in the world, namely his vision of the world, his ideology and his religion: he is a Muslim. I can tell you that one of the first press releases of the European Agencies in the hours immediately following the event was made by the local Islamic community in Strasbourg, which with tragicomic cynicism said that the real victims of this attack are Muslims. Let us explain: we shoot people in the streets, we kill European citizens and not just Europeans and Westerners, who tolerate these communities that are not tolerant of us, they are guilty, regardless of racism. Woe to rebel against being targets for an attack! So much so that in the Presidency's speech, which was also commendable, which recalled the event, the words 'Islam' and 'Muslim' were absent, because we are afraid to tell the truth. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We are afraid to say that the separation between state and church and the secularity of the State, which do not come from the Enlightenment, but are much older, because the phrase "Give to Caesar what is Caesar's and to God what is God's" did not say Rousseau, but Jesus Christ said it and is recorded in the New Testament, for us it is a obvious principle, because it is connatural to our religion and it is obvious because it is connatural to the principles of democracy.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u39	Finish it, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u40	CANDURA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Well, we must be careful, because these principles are very delicate and we must ask ourselves - and I conclude, Mr President - whether Islam can be integrated into our democracy. Is this ideology - and not religion - true? Not for me and with this I conclude and I invite you to reflect. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u41	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-72.ana.u42	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 18 December, at 5 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 11.51 a.m.
