ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 18.07 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 13 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the M5S Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, a request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. I am pleased to see that Vice President Calderoli has returned, and I welcome him on behalf of everyone. [[Live applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, you will recall that, following the session of the Assembly on 3 August, the Presidency was asked to shed light on the alleged verbal expressions made by Senator Taverna against opposition senators. The Presidency, together with the Offices, carried out all possible checks, looking at the images available. At the end of this investigation, I inform you that there was no trade union element attributable to the vice-president Taverna during the aforementioned session of the Assembly. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] To Vice President Taverna, the Presidency renews its appreciation on behalf of the whole Assembly. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] That is why I believe that this incident is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u7	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, unfortunately, last night we were caught up in some very bad news: Carlo Dell'Aringa has disappeared, unfortunately taken away from a sudden illness. He was our colleague, one of ours, in our Democratic Party community. He was a passionate teacher and was above all a kind man. It's been a lot of things. He's been in a lot of roles. He trained in Milan, studied political science at the Catholic University, then specialized abroad in economics and Catholics made his entire academic career, becoming a very young ordinary of political economy and then founding over the years Eighty a laboratory, a thinker would be said to be today, that is, the Centre for Economic Research for the Problems of Labour and Industry. It was precisely on the problems of the work that so many of us knew him and on these very issues he served the public administration and his country: he did it at the head of the Public Government Negotiating Representative Agency (ARAN) and at the Institute for the Development of Vocational Training of Workers (ISFOL) and then he did it in Parliament, when in 2013 the Democratic Party asked him to run for office in Lombardy, and as Undersecretary during the Letta government. These assignments he carried out with his style, with his character profile. Carlo was a person who did not love the shouted politics, the drawn politics; he loved to study and deepen, he was a serious politician, competent and passionate. Mild would define him most, but of that mildness that is not to be exchanged for surrender, because he was determined and the one who knew him can testify. When I met him in the five years we worked together, he struck me, against and in the discussions we had, elegance in ways and thoughts; and this should make us think, at a time like this when the clash, often wrinkled, as I said before, prevails over mutual respect. He was light years away from that kind of politics. In these hours I would like to see the family members embraced by their colleagues in the Democratic Party and beyond, by all those who have known him and who have made a part of the road with him together. A special thought to you, Carlo. May your example and style inspire us in our political commitment. We really need it. [[The President and the Assembly stand. Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u8	I call on the House to observe a minute's silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u9	[[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u10	The next item is the debate on proposals for a preliminary ruling on draft law No 717-B. I call Senator De Petris to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many of you know how obstinately we are at the presentation of so-called'milleproroghe' decrees, we have always opposed a preliminary constitutionality; we have also done so on this occasion already at first reading in the Senate, repeating this request after the passage of the provision to the Chamber. Indeed, the numerous changes made to the decree-law in question appear, certainly not in line with the requirements of Article 77 of the Constitution, to have further weighed down the disorganic and heterogeneous content that is the basis of this provision, from which derives the name "milleproroghe" (milleproroghe). Mr President, the fact that we define it in this way is certainly not in keeping with the requirement of Article 77 of the Constitution. I repeat here what the Consulta has repeated several times in various procedures and pronouncements. I refer, in particular, to the judgment n. 22 of 2012 in which the Consulta defined the illegality of a decree-law because the content did not respect what Article 77 prescribes as a constraint, i.e. homogeneity. Here, instead, we are faced with a decree-law that in a very confusing way, both in the first version and even more so in the changes introduced during the transition to the Chamber, puts together a series of norms that affect the most varied sectors: from the fundamental functions of the Municipalities, to the irrelevance of the non-respect of the intermediate objectives of the plans for rebalancing, to the extension of the deadlines for the conclusion of the work of the technical commission charged with studying the severity of the occupations. It also intervened heavily on certain subjects which should have received specific attention. I am thinking of health standards, as regards vaccines, and education standards. Not to mention, then, what has been introduced, with a debate that has also developed a great debate within the Commission, in the now famous ban on the outskirts. This is the political note, to which I am quite frankly accustomed, precisely because we had always pointed out the unconstitutionality of so-called'multi-pronged' decrees-laws, which, in our opinion, represent, in fact, a sort of failure of the government's administration: when we proceed with the most varied extensions, it clearly means that there is a delay, an inability to implement and carry out rules which were voted on and prescribed by Parliament itself. But a thousandprorogues in summer version, at most almost autumnal, frankly we hadn't seen it yet. For the truth, as the second important act of the "Government of Change" honestly this was indeed a surprise. Another surprise was that, within this milleproroghe, there was, in one way or another, a surreptitiously attempt to introduce elements that perhaps wanted to prelude more far-reaching interventions, abandoning in fact, through these spot interventions, to formulate projects and proposals carried out and above all intervening on matters that further burden the decree itself and even more, Mr President and colleagues, introduce elements in our view of obvious inconstitutionality. I am thinking, for example, of what has happened with regard to vaccines. If the Government were going to change the rules on vaccines, it would have to assume the responsibility to intervene and present an organic project, on which the Chamber and Senate Assemblies would discuss, they would have said their (I was very critical of the Lorenzin decree). If there were issues to be addressed, this political responsibility certainly had to be assumed. Instead, we have only seen confusion, which has created problems in citizens, in parents, in schools. The Senate was presented and approved with an amendment on compulsory schooling; then, after the big announcement and the debate, so all the principals say that we finally go back, we return to the House with another amendment, with which we change perspective and insert the extension with regard to self-certifications. This is a very confusing and damaging way from the point of view of the constitutional values contained in Article 32. The right to health and freedom that everyone wants to exercise, in fact, must be included in rules that are clear and that do not endanger certainty with their own confusion; because - look - in the field of health, legal certainty and standards are absolutely necessary. We come to another intervention: an amendment was also approved in the Senate concerning the reopening of the graduations when they were exhausted; instead, what did we find in front of us? I have spoken on this subject several times, because in this case too we were trying to protect a constitutional right. It is clear and clear that there had been discrimination from that point of view. We intervened - and the House had approved - in order to remove this discrimination in fact, in compliance with Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution. It was a tool available to intervene on the story of the magisterial graduates and on other events involving 40,000-50,000 people, teachers who in all these years have guaranteed the continuity of teaching. In the Chamber of Deputies, however, we turn back. I have here with me a letter, of which I will then give you ample reading, in which instead Vice Prime Minister Di Maio, addressing these teachers, guaranteed in writing that he would intervene and explain how it would be done and the rules approved in the Senate went exactly in this direction. The House of Deputies has changed them, and here too there is complete uncertainty about the rules: you will say that it is certainly bicameralism, but these deleted rules show even more the violation of Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution. Minister Bussetti has now announced the extraordinary competition, of which the contents and norms are not well understood, but it will cover a maximum of 12,000 people, compared with 50,000 teachers, who will in fact be fired en masse. The third issue that I intend to address before concluding, Mr President, is that of Article 13, which has been the subject of a very confusing speech here in the Senate in this case too, of which some members of the Government give an interpretation and other members of the Government give another. It is true that there has been a great deal of intervention on resources on which the municipalities had relied, even in this case limiting in fact the ability of the municipalities and metropolitan areas to intervene with their own measures to remove all the obstacles of an economic and social order, which limit the equality of citizens. Many of these interventions were aimed at the most degraded areas of our outskirts. Here again we are faced with a clear violation of Title V of the Constitution and the principle of subsidiarity. For all these reasons, Mr President, I would ask, pursuant to Rule 78 of the Rules of Procedure, not to proceed with the examination of the measure on the agenda. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u12	I call Senator Collina to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP2.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u13	Mr President, I would also like to point out that if we were to intervene under the old Senate Rules, we would discuss the requirements of necessity and urgency, the homogeneity of matter - even if this is the one thousand-pronged measure - of the fact that the 28 initial paragraphs have become more than 70 during the examination, first in the Senate and then in the Chamber of Deputies. On the other hand, the new Rules allow us to make a slightly broader argument, on the substance of the content and also on the political merit, which leads us to ask that the decree-law not be discussed and voted on. They were difficult days, with a majority all intent to silence the tones and the discussion, until they arrived, even in the absence of contradictory and interlocution, to close to every discourse and expression of the opposition. Why this attitude? To cover and put in the background the negative choices contained in the decree-law. These are bad choices for local communities, for citizens, for families, made in many cases without even expressing their meaning and their vision. Perhaps it is too much to ask what the vision is, because every day we see in the field not one, but two governments, that wave in the air in an alternate way a contract, that to date seems a book of dreams, that for the moment is producing only the dismantling of many actions, that in the eyes of many are just and of common sense. I do not hesitate to call it a sort of ideological fury, which even in the case of this unfortunate thousand-pronge manifests itself in a striking way on two themes, which I want to emphasize. First of all, the ambiguity of the Government and the majority on the funds for the suburbs, which has been revealed to be a clear will to remove the funds for so many interventions of great infrastructural value, urban social, mending and qualification proposed by 87 municipalities and 9 metropolitan cities, from North to South. To a possible formulation, the Government and the majority have repeatedly avoided providing a clarifying interpretation of the availability of funds for funded projects. If in these two days, in the Commission, we have used the time available to highlight the importance of the funds for the suburbs, it was also to give time to the Government to take a step forward and to clarify to everyone, to Parliament and the mayors of the municipalities, what their will was with an agenda, a simple agenda. I say this to my colleagues in Lega and 5 Stars, but also to my colleagues in Forza Italia, because it's not just about different ways of obstructing. We are here to make a clear contribution, to improve the measures. That is the role of the opposition and we want to do it to the full because the presence of the opposition in democracies also gives quality to government action. But here, by now, it seems to me that in addition to the Democratic Party and LEU there is little else on the horizon, with the League maneuvering both the government and the center-right opposition. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Then, as far as vaccines are concerned, I want to repeat two things that we have succeeded - goodness to them - in the Commission: schools have begun and the facts have come. They move immunosuppressed children from classes according to the percentage of vaccinees. Even in Rimini they moved some children to reduce the risks for their immunodepressed dad. You see, Mr President, I say this to everyone: we have a health system that also responds to your reckless choices because it takes initiatives that reduce the risk. With what is written in this decree-law, you are increasing the risks and - think about it - the State, what you now governed would be to say that it acts out of office, but I say: it acts out of genuine and just ethics in order to counter the negative results of your choices. It is the doctors and school leaders who are trying to reduce the risks that you have raised. So we're the one who's obstructing? No! It is you who obstruct the common sense, science and health of Italians. Have you, as citizens, proposed that you be on the side of the citizens? With these choices you are against the citizens. Did you take the vows saying "First the Italians"? With these choices you are against the Italians. Here, I believe that to put a preliminary question, today, means to try once again to make everyone aware of some important issues that in this decree thousandprorogues are treated in an absolutely negative way for our country. That is why we shall be voting in favour of the question referred for a preliminary ruling. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u14	I call Senator Iannone to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP3.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this decree-law consists of 14 articles containing extensions of legislative terms in the most disparate areas, from territorial authorities to justice, from the environmental issue to the infrastructure sector. There are also extensions of time limits for emergency interventions in the areas affected by seismic events, in education and universities, social policies, culture, sport and in the sensitive health sector. In addition, action is being taken again in the field of popular banks. The decree-law is now adopted by all governments, usually at annual intervals, on the sole justification of the need to ensure the efficiency and effectiveness of the action of the various administrations concerned, but in reality it only serves to correct errors, compensate delays and missed decisions. The continued and repeated use of the decree of urgency is, moreover, a form of imbalance and forcing of the balance of powers provided for in Article 70 of the constitutional dictation, which has de facto shifted all legislative powers to the government and imposed a compression of the prerogatives of the Chambers, with good peace of democratic confrontation, which has become almost entirely random. From the date of the inauguration of the new Government, in a few months ten decree-laws have been presented, no one, according to us, with the requirements of necessity and urgency required; but it is not yet clear what is the political planning, in the short and long term, of this Government, which continues to flag a program rich in propaganda, but with few - and alarming - operational points. We don't want to believe that our nation is experiencing a constant emergency situation. This is even more surprising if we think that precisely the political component of the current Government, in the illustration of the preliminary question of the last decree-milleproroghe law, denounced the umpteenth use of an instrument, that of the extension of the terms, that already by its nature should have an exceptional character, but now assumes in our country a systematic character and represents a fixed appointment, year after year, as a practice now established. The Renzi Government, which so much wants the citizens to believe that it has a reformer character, instead, in the use of the umpteenth decree-milleproroghe law, is shown to be the most conservative of the governments of all time, under the guise of young rulers who, instead, hide the oldest structures of state that, for the umpteenth time, resort to the decree milleproroghe in order to be able to defer the terms of law completely disregarded; this was said by the current majority of Government, towards the Government under leadership PD. We must record that the Government has changed, but the abused way of using this instrument has not changed, and therefore the violation of the Constitutional Charter. As Senator De Petris pointed out, the heterogeneity of the matter obviously represents for us the reason why we support the unconstitutionality of the measure. As stated by the Constitutional Court in judgment No 171 of 2007, the homogeneity of the content of the measure must be assessed both with regard to the subject matter covered by the regulation and from a teleological point of view, with regard, therefore, to the unitary purpose of the intervention. The examination of the individual provisions, on the other hand, reveals multiple aims, as well as interventions on deadlines set by the same Government with measures presented and approved in a hurry only a few weeks before. It is the case, rather striking, of Article 9, which extends the time limits for the submission by the recipients of State aid recovery procedures of data relating to the amount of damage suffered as a result of seismic events in the Abruzzo Region as from 6 April 2009 and any observations relating to the amounts actually received. It is not necessary to remind any of us that on 19 July this Parliament finally approved a bill of conversion, with amendments, of Decree-Law 29 May 2018, n. 55, containing further urgent measures in favour of the populations of the territories of the Abruzzo, Lazio, Marche and Umbria Regions, affected by the seismic events that took place since 24 August 2016. Equally incredible is Article 6, as amended in the examination by the Senate, which provided the possibility for qualified teachers by the year 2017-2018 and for those who hold the master's degree achieved by 2001-2002 or a diploma that gives access to the profile of technical-practical teacher, to include an additional range of AGEs. I would like to recall the promises made in the electoral campaign to the world of school: these teachers were first illusory and then dismayed in a resounding way, given the crazy confusion that has occurred here in this House. We agree with Senator De Petris' amendment, which, moreover, in this matter, contradicts, according to the Government's intentions, what is provided for by the decree of dignity. No less serious are the forecasts concerning the Italian Provinces: the Delrio law was an example of political psychiatry and legislative psychiatry. Today we move on to creative legislation: with the elections that are held on 31 October, we will be voting in many Provinces only for the President, while in many others the provincial councils will be dissolved in advance of their natural expiry due to an inexplicable haste. We once again call on the majority of the government to adopt a law that gives voice to the people and to ensure that the Presidents of the Provinces and provincial councils return to be chosen by the citizens. What we are seeing in the Provinces adds confusion to the great confusion that was created by the so-called Delrio law, renamed "delirious." The rules on the extension of popular banks and the rules on the extension of vaccination obligations are also a strong reason why we are opposed to this omnibus decree and for which we ask the Senate Assembly to decide not to proceed with the examination of the bill. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u16	I call Senator Pagano to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP4.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u17	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. This is not the first time that the Forza Italia Group has referred a question to the milleproroghe. It has already happened at first reading, but it is clear that the issue is not of goat wool. It is not a problem, that of the preliminary ruling, which can be kept silent, when it is a clear case of abuse of urgent decrees; a clear fact that is detrimental to Parliament's legislative activity. During the first reading, all the legislative provisions contained in this measure, which has now become a custom for Parliament, were already clear and clear. This is something that we must note as a negative fact: it is not said that the Government, which defines itself as change, must then continue with the bad habits of the past. If it is true, as the present majority states, that we want to change all the bad habits of the past, then the first bad habit that there has been in the years and legislatures of the past is precisely to resort abusively - I dare say - and still bulimic to the decree of urgency. In particular, within this type of measure, concerning the so-called extension of time limits and rightly defined by us thousand-pronged parliamentarians, everything is put into practice and, in fact, as a measure which provides for the extension of time-limits that expire, we are dealing with specific issues. The lengthening and extension of a time limit is not a formal matter, but a substantial one, because one enters into the substance of the individual problem. It is clear that the expectation of the thousand-pronge decree, indeed the certainty of its adoption on a systematic basis, since it has become a well-established practice of Parliament, clearly constitutes a strong disincentive for the public administration which, instead of fulfilling its duties, already knows, before the deadlines expire, that the thousand-prorogation of turn comes so much and this is the way to be able to overcome the deadlines that intervene and that must instead be absolutely respected for good administration and a good government. You understand that all this can no longer continue; the Forza Italia Group therefore needs to point out all this, not only because we are in opposition, but because, as the president of our Group, Senator Bernini, says well, it is absolutely necessary to change the rules of the game and return to make our Senate really do in an innovative way the things that it should do and that instead are not done. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Let us now talk about what is happening, for example, in this second reading, since my dear colleague, Vice-President of the 1st Commission, pointed out to the Commission that, in fact, at first reading some changes were requested and not approved, while in the House of Deputies the current majority and the Italian Government have made some changes, even significant, which certainly make a fund of uncertainty about the path that the majority should give Italy. The Italian people need certainties, clear messages, to understand actually where you are going, they cannot assume that at the head of the country there is a driver who continuously takes the drift, once steers to the left and one to the right, losing control of the car; where do we go to crash? It is no longer possible to think about all this. Therefore, I am quite frankly saying that we do not like the changes made at first reading in the House, so in the second section of Parliament, which we do not particularly like about the well-known issue of vaccines. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is right to remember that the Forza Italia Group, already at first reading in the Senate, has made it a battle of civilization, which does not mean merely following the world of medical science in a pedissequo and in any case without observation; it simply means being modern, close to the country, making sure that it looks to the future with hope and that it aims above all to the certainty of health for our children; this is what interests us. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The message received from the House of Deputies, when it seemed that the majority were changing their approach to this measure, in fact then disappointed because, in fact, only an extension was inserted, until March 10, 2019, of the deadline to allow the possibility of presenting self-certification. Basically, it is a way of not taking a clear position, being uncertain to the end, not knowing whether to follow the no vax or the pro vax; therefore, not knowing where to go and not giving a clear signal to the Italians and the interest of the Italians! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Then there is the question that interests us, of the ban on the outskirts: an announced ban, for which some local administrations (not a few: 87 municipalities, 9 metropolitan cities and 1,625 interventions covering a total of 326 municipalities) had already advanced initiatives to be able to meet the possibility of overcoming the degradation of the outskirts of many Italian cities. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Well, there has been no ability to respond to these initiatives. The Forza Italia Group, my dear colleague, Mr Bernini, has tabled an amendment in the hope that we will be able to vote on it and that it will be adopted. But I will finish with the question of school buildings. Even on school buildings, the amending measure (and I also told the Undersecretary in the Commission, who kindly replied) is insufficient in relation to the absolute need to ensure that all school buildings can be anti-seismic and can protect the health of our young people and our children who go to school. It is right to remember all this because being close to our children, both with regard to vaccines and with regard to school construction, can and must be absolutely a priority for this country, a priority for this Parliament and not just a priority for this Government. Parliamentary colleagues, the measure, for reasons of merit and form, and above all for reasons of law, is spoiled both from the point of view of constitutional legitimacy, and because it has a uneven content (as it cares about too many arguments disconnected from each other), and because it lacks the extraordinary requirements of necessity and urgency. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u18	There are Giovanni and Ilaria Tesse, brother and sister, fourteen and twelve years old, very young Italian champions of Latin dances 2017 within the Italian Federation of Sports Dance. To them we address our greetings. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u19	I would like to wish Senator Bossi seventy-seven years old today. Happy birthday. [[Applause]] One representative per Group will be able to speak during the debate for no more than ten minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u22	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are strongly opposed to this measure, because we believe that it contains three violence and two serious omissions. The violence that this measure contains is directed against the right to health of children and families in this country, against the right to education and against Italian municipalities. The two serious omissions concern what has been decided not to do in order to strengthen aid to the people affected by the earthquake and to strengthen and accelerate the support decided in favour of savers affected by the scams of the banks. These days we have tried, in the First Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where I am the Head of the Democratic Party, to have the majority and the government open their eyes to the obvious limits of this provision. We have tried to achieve improvements (it is the duty of the opposition to do so), we have put forward arguments and we have put forward requests for change. We have not been able to obtain any constructive response: deafness to our demands and dumbness, which has turned into the decision of the Government and the very serious majority not to feed the debate in the Commission, not to participate in the confrontation that we proposed and therefore to mark a not positive page in the history of the 1st Commission and this Parliament. We have made many speeches, all of which are of merit, all of which are attentive to substance, with concrete examples. We have made it clear that the decision on the ban on suburbs will mean kindergartens that will not be made, schools that will not be renovated or built, roads that will not be realized; it will mean cities that are more insecure; it will mean greater uncertainty for the Italian municipalities. And when we inflict greater uncertainty on the municipalities, we must know that a very important source of public investment in our country risks paralysis. All this helps to give our economy recessionary drives, of which I believe no one feels the need, especially after the publication of the latest data. And what about what has been done about vaccines: turnarounds, pirouettes, continuous statements, which first confused the ideas to a large part of the public and then made it clear, with the final decision, that this majority and this government are against the right of families and children to see their health safeguarded. And they are more serious if we bear in mind the fact that the scientific community, the world of culture and the world of school have made clear that we should not go the way that we have decided to go. Therefore, I believe that the reasons for the content that I have just explained and the reasons for the method that it has been decided to follow in the debate on this measure make it necessary to continue the fight of the opposition during the plenary debate in this House and also, after the vote on the measure, in the country, because there are things on which we are aware that we can count on a support that goes far beyond the circle of parliamentarians that make up the minority groups in this Parliament. We can connect ourselves to the worlds I mentioned earlier, that of school, that of mayors, that of culture, to all people who believe that reasonableness should prevail over ideology and a demagogic approach to problems. We have seen three very unpleasant situations during our work in the Commission: we have been given very little time to prepare our amendments, with a force that we have all found absolutely unfounded and unreasonable. It has been decided, in the Budget Committee, to adopt a systematic, improper and - I am not saying this - misuse of Article 81 of the Constitution in order to cause amendments to lapse in mass and to prevent sufficient in-depth reflection on them until all the opposition groups have been forced out of the Commission, just as we had to do when the Commission was forced into the amendments. Finally, today, the decision of the President of the 1st Commission to cut off the debate in the Commission unfetteredly before the debate had ended, when this decree-law expires next Sunday and, if it had been intended, especially in the light of what the new Rules of Procedure of the Senate allows the majority in terms of speeding up the work in this House, it could have been used today and tomorrow, bringing the measure in time for approval before its expiry. No, it is not: a kind of mill has been applied to the work of the Commission; it has been intended to choke the debate; it has been intended to give further proof of protection and arrogance. We are opposed to this, not just to the content of the measure. We invite everyone to reflect on how forcings are always wrong and how, when they are not necessary, they become even more wrong. I want to deal with one final point. The ban on the periphery has not only created uncertainty about the investment decisions of the municipalities, but, in my opinion, it has broken a fundamental principle of the order of any well-functioning democracy: the continuity of the State while changing and discontinuing majorities. We do not call into question funds already allocated; we do not call into question decisions already taken to follow a split or other whim. The state does not change the cards on the table; if the state changes the cards on the table, it loses authority and credibility, and transmits to the lower institutional levels a signal of confusion and lack of legal certainty that can only hurt the companies and families of this country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u23	Pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred for a preliminary ruling, with several reasons, by Senator De Petris and other Senators (QP1), Senator Marcucci and other Senators (QP2), Senator Ciriani and other Senators (QP3) and Senator Bernini and other Senators (QP4), referring to the bill n. 717-B. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u24	The next item is the debate on the bill No 717-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. Pursuant to Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, the Senate discusses and deliberates only on the changes made by the Chamber of Deputies, subject to the final vote on the single article of the bill of conversion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u27	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I have asked to speak on the order of business on a number of facts which the Democratic Party considers to be detrimental to our rights as Members of Parliament in the context of the debate on this measure. I would like to point out to you, Mr President, that we regard them as very serious and worrying, also with a view to the continuity and success of this parliamentary term. I shall make very specific and timely references, starting obviously from some decisions taken by the Presidents of the relevant Commissions, first of all from that of the 1st Commission, which is competent in relation to the matter of the extension of time limits. We began work on Monday afternoon, Mr President, and in the Commission it was decided to set the time limits for tabling amendments. Incomprehensiblely, even from the point of view of the usefulness of the majority and the working capacity of the offices, the Democratic Party was deliberately prevented from having sufficient time to deal with the many changes that have taken place in the House, when it was forced to set a very short deadline on the evening itself. After that there was night and the offices would not work; we therefore asked to be able to work all night to prepare our amendments. We believe that this behaviour is also damaging, and perhaps above all, because there was no practical or political reason for reaching this decision; there was only the desire to prevent our Group, our offices, from working sufficiently long to prepare the amendments and agendas. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr President, let me say that the facts have been even more serious than this, at least from our point of view. Specifically, you will recall that at the last Conference of Leaders, the question of the methodology and approach of the President of the 5th Commission was raised in relation to the issues relating to Article 81 of the Constitution. The President made a specific commitment and informed us that she had spoken with the minister responsible, Minister Tria, and the President of the Commission, so that those situations could not be repeated in which, in the specific case of the lack of the technical report provided by the Ministry, an opinion could be expressed contrary to Article 81. I therefore wonder, given that those talks had such a purpose, what answers they received, how valuable it is to reassure us that we have been given. This is because, Mr President, something much worse has happened: we have reached the point of expressing our opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution to a large number of amendments, explicitly justifying them with the lack of the technical report of the Ministry. In addition, we have created a very serious vulnus for the work of this House, but also for the proper functioning of democracy, when we wanted to vote on hundreds of amendments with a single vote and this is absolutely unacceptable. We, with the other opposition forces, have decided to leave the Chamber. How is it possible for the President of the 5th Commission to have this kind of attitude? [[Applause from the PD Group.]] I wonder if there has been a preliminary examination, if there has been a verification with the Senate Presidency. What's the situation? The third situation which we consider worrying about the development of the democratic life of this House is that for the second time, on an important measure wanted by the Government, we arrive in the Assembly without a rapporteur. We understand that this is an extreme ratio: when the time has run out, when the Presidency has taken the work to the point of no return, when this becomes apparent, for example in the specific case of a decree-law, we can arrive at the logical consequence of arriving at this House without the rapporteur, because otherwise the measure would expire. But there were no such conditions. Mr. President, they weren't there at all. There was the possibility of working in the Commission in accordance with the new Rules of Procedure, which provides for further discussion, discussion and discussion. This debate and this debate have been deliberately denied. The spirit of the new Rules of Procedure has been denied. You could work longer Monday, until late evening and all day today; you could work tomorrow. Mr President, the measure expires on Sunday. There was time to do the work in the Commissions, even giving way to oppositions, including an attitude of obstruction that blames us, but this is legitimate. We could only come to the House without the rapporteur when all the possible terms were exhausted. Instead, he chose for the second time - we have already denounced him - to prevent oppositions from confronting issues relevant to the country such as the health of children, the right to education, the money snatched to the cities, the outskirts, the communities and the issues related to the earthquake. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The opposition and the Senate have been prevented from doing their duty in an incomprehensible manner, without any justification. The Group, respectful of the Presidency, has decided to formally occupy the Commission, at the end of its work and therefore without preventing the outcome and continuity of its work in that context, only as a signal to the Presidency to address these issues. We have the right to be protected against this attitude which goes beyond the rules of democracy and beyond the tolerable. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr President, I would like to speak. This approach is unacceptable. If we start like this, I wonder where they want to drag us the League and the Movimento 5 Stars. Where do they want to drag the parliamentary debate? [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u30	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I too am speaking on the order of business. I am particularly interested in what has happened. Mr President, you know that last night I also allowed myself to tell and report on the serious events that have taken place within Commission 5a, mainly because repeated, despite the fact that we, together with other groups, had pointed out the use and abuse of Rule 81, with the excuse that technical reports did not arrive, so as not to address all the amendments tabled by the oppositions and to arrive at a sort of mass slaughter of them. Last night, during the group leader, you, Mr President, gave us your assurances. Among other things, the Minister for Relations with Parliament was also present, who said he was willing to call for the presentation of technical reports, and you yourself, President, said you had spoken with Minister Tria. We thought that this intervention would bring the work of the Budget Commission back to proper use. Article 81 is very delicate. It is certainly not possible to abuse this, nor to proceed lightly. In this case, however, as has been the case in the past - it has been used with the pressure, Mr President, to vote in bloc more than 100 amendments, all with the contrary opinion of the Budget Commission under Article 81, with the excuse that technical reports had not arrived. We are about to enter the budgetary session and it is clear that this way of working is likely to produce a very serious vulnus. Above all, it is clear that in this case the rights not only of minorities but also of individual senators who wish to table an amendment are being undermined. Mr President, I would ask you, once again, formally, in stigmatizing what has happened, to intervene and make sure that we return to the appropriate use of Article 81 of the Constitution. It is clear, at this point, that, in order to eliminate all the amendments of the oppositions, it is not even necessary to ask for technical reports, producing the effect of a total zero. With regard to the question of the measure that arrives in this House without the rapporteur, I believe - I have always felt and confirmed this once again - that this is also a means not only to have the opportunity to stay in time, because the measure had come to this House, but also to avoid reaching an in-depth debate in the Commission. It has been abused in the past and we have always opposed it. I would not like to see this, even at the beginning of this parliamentary term - since it is already the second time this has happened - becoming the normal way of working, which is - alas - also an element to concult all the rights of oppositions. We have done so in the past, we will continue to do so and we will do so today: we ask that we reflect on this, because we cannot get to this House without rapporteur, in fact, to bypass the possibility of minorities being better able to defend and speak on the amendments. I believe that we should all remember this in this House, all the more so because many people have already suffered a great deal in the past. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u33	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, I too, for the Forza Italia Group, must condemn, in reply to the comments that have already been made in the course of the Conference of Leaders, what, in essence, the previous Members have anticipated. The work of the 5th Commission is for us a restriction - I must say - of the rights not only of minorities and oppositions, but also of parliamentarians in general. Article 81 of the Constitution is an instrument that must be used within its perimeter. That Article 81 should take on a defensive nature, so that all the amendments that represent a problem, not only accounting, with respect to the budgetary posts of the State, but perhaps also political, are stopped by putting an opinion contrary to Article 81, on the basis of an alleged absence of a technical report, is a practice that we cannot accept. We have said this a lot civilly, Mr President, and you must give us notice of it. On the occasion of two Conferences of the Leaders we said that, having changed the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, everything that from now on is practiced in the Commissions, as in the Chamber - but above all in the Commissions, where the most significant part of the process of formation of the law will take place - risks taking on the nature of a precedent. We can no longer accept these practical evils. As far as we are concerned, for any measure, from the decree dignity up to the decree thousandprorogues that we are facing now, we have assumed a role - this is recognized by all our colleagues, of majority and minority - of opposition absolutely responsible, on the contents, not hysterical, not instrumental, obstructive as it is opportune and necessary for the support of our political positions, in which we believe in a particular way, especially in the face of themes, very hot, which have been addressed in the amending passage to the House of the decree thousandprorogues, which my colleague Nazario Pagano has masterfully highlighted. For these very hot issues, however, we have taken the contingency time we had in the Commission and we will take the contingency time that we agreed at the Conference of the Leaders, in the general discussion and in the discussion of the individual amendments, if the measure will follow its normal course in this House. All of this, however, Mr President and colleagues, we cannot accept that in the 5th Commission our amendments, which are civilly drawn up and discussed, should be voted on at a rate of one hundred at a time. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] It is an absolute disrespect for the prerogatives of Members, of all Members of Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] Colleagues, Mr President, all this has once again a constructive purpose: we will not allow this practice to pass with a precedent. We are asking you first of all, as we did at the Conference of the Leaders. We are asking the Presidents of the relevant Commissions; we are asking the majority group leaders and we are asking the Government to ensure that the rights, which have never been violated, even in the darkest times of these parliamentary classrooms, are respected now, particularly now, at a time when unfortunately Parliament's function risks being severely weakened. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u34	With regard to the issues that have been raised, the Presidency reserves the right to carry out appropriate investigations. He asked the President of the First Permanent Commission, Senator Borghesi, to speak to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u35	Mr President, the bill for the conversion of Decree-Law No 91 of 2018, extending the time limits provided for by legislative provisions, today before the Assembly, was approved with amendments by the Senate on 6 August and further amended, at second reading, by the Chamber of Deputies, which concluded its examination on 14 September. On that same date the bill was then sent back to the Senate for examination at third reading and assigned to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Commission began its discussion at 6 p.m. on Monday 17 September with the introductory report and the general discussion. Also with a view to the imminent expiry of the constitutional terms for the conversion into law of the decree - on 23 September - and to ensure adequate time for discussion and examination, the deadline for tabling amendments was set at 23 p.m. on the same day. There were 84 agendas and 414 amendments at the time of expiry. During yesterday's afternoon sitting, Tuesday 18 September, the examination of the amendments began, with the illustration of the relevant proposers; a phase which continued, as per the calendar, in yesterday's night sitting and in today's afternoon sitting. At 11 a.m. this morning, it was noted that it was impossible to complete the examination in time for the beginning of the discussion in this House, which was planned on the basis of the determinations of the Conference of Leaders at 6 p.m. today. At 11 a.m. today, in fact, the explanation of the amendments to Article 9 was still under way. It was therefore clear that, in the time remaining before the beginning of the work of the Assembly, the Commission could not complete the explanation of all the amendments and, consequently, proceed to the relevant votes and to confer the mandate on the rapporteur. From the brief analysis of the examination in the Commission, I think I can say that, although tight due to the forthcoming deadlines for converting the decree-law, the spaces for discussion have not been compressed. Around 80 interventions were carried out during the Commission's approximately 10 hours of work, largely devoted to the illustrations of the amending proposals. Furthermore, I would remind you that the Commission unanimously accepted the request made by the Democratic Party Group at the beginning of the process for the examination to be assisted by the maximum forms of advertising allowed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Senator Borghesi's report, the bill No 717-B, since the examination has not been completed in the Commission, will be discussed in the text transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies without report, pursuant to Rule 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u37	Mr President, the thousand-pronged decree has a very particular focus that betrays the identity of the majority. The most characteristic element of this focus, the most visible element, is the subtraction of funds with dexterity through a cryptic amendment, which also deceived some colleagues of the majority, so about 90 cities, who had regularly won the ban on the outskirts, were excluded from a contractual relationship with the State that they had obtained through participation in the ban. What has been accomplished is a conscious political choice: 1.6 billion euros, which were destined for that fund, have been taken away because it is clear that this majority wants to find change to make a law of stability that, in some way, makes it possible to write the first five lines - you will be able to write only these - of the book of dreams that is preparing to compose in the coming months. There are two elements of gravity. Firstly, what you have done with the milleproroghe is a breach of a contractual agreement between the State and the cities. When you, as a majority, represent this country, you represent the State. More than 90 cities had already signed agreements, as Mr Pagano said. They have signed commitments and, at times, have even begun to spend money on redevelopment of degraded peripheral areas. But what is more serious is that the government has failed not only to engage with administrations, but also to engage with millions of citizens living in degraded areas of the country, located in the largest urban areas, where services are absolutely inadequate, where there are no security conditions, where youth unemployment rates exceed 50%. Colleagues of the majority, this act of yours will turn against you because the populism that nourishes is fed precisely by this discomfort, in the degradation of those peripheries. And you're cheating on those citizens, those voters denying funding for the outskirts ban. And you have done so in a way - I repeat - conscious, in a determined way; you have done so because you know that state finances do not allow in any way to make the law of stability that you have in mind and you have done so because you want to keep promises from puppets, dangerous promises such as - for example - citizenship income, the famous 780 euros you want to give to people who do not work. And it is not so much a matter of giving sustenance to people, which is a matter of dignity, sacrosanct. Do you know what it means to give EUR 780 to people living in a country where employment services do not work; where there is no vocational training and an economy capable of absorbing the employment capacities of people who perhaps, for a certain period of time, seek work? Well, what you're doing is a very serious act. You think you can give, through what is foreseen in the thousand-pronge, through the few money that you have managed to raise, through the assistanceism - this is the serious aspect of this country - a response to unemployment and denied to the cities, the places that are the flywheel of the economy and allow the keeping of the community, the possibility of investing in redevelopment, the economy and social cohesion, hitting associations that are currently carrying out tasks and roles in place of the State. This is a conscious political choice, a wrong political choice, which, above all, will turn against it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u38	Senator Steger is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u39	Mr President, this provision returns here to the Senate after a not simple debate in the House. (at 7.30 p.m.) (Follow Steger). With the decision on the funds for the suburbs, the cities of Trento and Bolzano - among others - will be less 36 million euros. The municipality of Bolzano is involved with the 18 million that it has won for the project of recovery of the area - in the center - of Via Alto Adige. Our mayors have also strongly protested against this unilateral decision of the Government, and I really hope - as President Conte promised to the President of ANCI Antonio Decaro - that a solution will be found as soon as possible. Bolzano, like Trento, like all the other cities concerned, needs those resources. These funds have already been allocated, boiled down by the General Accounting Office of the State, which the municipalities were beginning to spend. If there is a need to find resources, that is not the right way, because in this case we are talking about resources that go directly and immediately to the benefit of the citizens. That's why we struggle to understand the wall that the government raised in the House, after the mistake that was made here in the Senate. It is the negative note of a measure which also has positive sides. First of all, it is a positive decision to extend the deadlines for the membership of the groups in the reform of the CCCs. At first reading, with an amendment of ours, we had asked that for the Raiffeisen it be the President of the Region, heard the Bank of Italy, to establish the thresholds of participation of the cooperative credit banks to the parent company. I believe that the greatest limit of the reform is the obligation to join a banking group, or the loss of a banking licence. Solidarity to ensure the stability of the system is important, but it cannot compromise the freedom of initiative guaranteed by the Constitution and those mutualist principles and of connection with the territory, which constitute the social name of cooperative credit. For this reason, our hope is that this time that the Government wanted to allow itself to serve for a more focused reflection, through involvement and close confrontation with the stakeholders. The banking system deserves great attention, especially now that a new page on the cost of money could be opened for families and businesses because of the conclusion of quantitative easing. We appreciate the prudential attitude of 1.6%, especially because of what is happening at international level and the data on industrial production. Italy will need policies that give further impetus to the recovery; policies that can reconcile the macro level with the micro level of artisans, professionals and small businesses. In this sense, bureaucratic simplification plays a fundamental role, which, for children, assumes the contours of a hidden tax. This was the direction of other amendments that we had tabled at first reading: those for the agricultural sector, to extend the entry into force of the traceability of payments, with the aim of allowing ABI and Poste Italiane to develop initiatives aimed at reducing its own bureaucratic impact; or the one with which we asked to extend the deadline for the new obligations of the hotel structures for a further six months, with the mere aim of preventing hoteliers from adapting work in the middle of the tourist season, i.e. June next year. Unfortunately, it was not possible in the Commission to start a proper discussion on these issues. We take note of this and we hope that in future there will be a greater opportunity for dialogue and discussion, starting from issues that have no ideological matrix other than that of pure common sense. As we said at first reading, we give the Government the possibility of a measure that serves to deepen the issues that it considers most important. We are less convinced when an extension-terms loses its original function and turns into a tool to take initiatives of which it is difficult to understand the ratio and the spirit of direction. Our wish is that the confusion and backwardness that have characterized some moments of the examination of the provision can close here. The first budget law of the new legislature, the first real test of this Executive, awaits us soon. We will discuss the substance - as we have always said - and hope to do so on a law that finds the right balance between order in the accounts and impulse to growth. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u40	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u41	Mr President, we have decided to reiterate in this debate the issue that struck us most with regard to a specific part of the milleproroghe, the subject of various and many amendments tabled first in the Senate and then in the House. We have had a debate on this subject, following which only the amendments relating to certain issues (e.g. the suspension of users) have passed, while to date the substantive questions relating to the actions to be taken remain unresolved. There is not yet - I would like to remind you - a Commissioner and no decisions have been taken with regard to the extension of contracts, nor with regard to the most important sector, i.e. the public and all the people who work in municipalities and civil protection offices, nor with regard to all those persons with coordinated and continuous or agricultural employment contracts that are not covered by the ordinary integration fund. However, what struck us most this summer was the story of Ischia, because - as you will remember and as I think my colleagues from Movimento 5 Stars remember - we have tabled a number of amendments on the issue of the earthquake that hit Ischia, because they have been forgotten. This summer, between one news and another, I learned that both Minister Di Maio, and later - if memory does not deceive me - Prime Minister Conte went to Ischia and reassured the President of the Region and especially the mayors of the territories affected by that forgotten earthquake and announced, about a week ago - in a decree-law that was called "decreeto emergencies" and that was mostly aimed at the case of Genoa - the solution also of some issues related to the earthquake of Ischia. According to the facts, the amendments proposed by the Forza Italia Group concerning Ischia have been systematically rejected. Then the government decided to pay attention to these areas and did so through the figure of Di Maio first and Count then. Subsequently a statement is issued - it seems to me after the penultimate Council of Ministers, as before controlled by me - in which it is said that part of the decree-law also concerns the earthquake of Ischia. Okay. But this decree-law has a text that we do not know, that the Council of Ministers should have approved and that some Southern newspapers call "decree ghost": in it there is a lot of discussion about the issue that concerns - from what I understand - the third pardon. Probably also in Ischia there will be the problem, present throughout Central Italy, of houses built many years ago and, consequently, the question of double compliance will arise. We do not know anything about this decree-law, but it was decided to reject all the amendments tabled with the milleproroghe. I do not want to deal with this with an overly controversial spirit that sometimes some friends of the majority rebuke me affectionately. However, nothing has been resolved with regard to the problems related to the earthquake, on which - it had been said - perhaps they would have put their hands with the decree milleproroghe in second reading. We hoped for it because, moreover, at first reading in the House of Changes were made. The amendments were all rejected and were amendments - as we know - suggested by the mayors, on the one hand, and by the categories, on the other. The measurement on Ischia has been rejected. We had a summer appearance, a post-summer emergency decree, and a non-existent text. You understand that under these conditions, with all the affection we can have towards those who try to work for the good of the State, voting on such measures has proved a bit complicated. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Iannone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u43	Mr President, as a result of the haste, we are once again in the Senate talking about the milleproroghe. We hoped that at first reading there would be political space and common sense to work through amendments in order to improve the measure, hoping that what is planned will bring a real advantage to Italian citizens and give a sign of awareness of the new Parliament to local administrators, who are the first interface of our citizens, those who are at the forefront of the issues of daily life and what the real country asks of us every day. Unfortunately, this expectation has been resoundingly denied, because there has been a substantial issue of invisible trust, as I call it. Already in the first reading the spaces for confrontation were absolutely compressed; there was no political will to dialogue and to confront to make improvements, as it was in the heart of making Brothers of Italy, a political force that loves to define itself as patriotic opposition, in the interest of our nation. And that rush ended up betraying also the majority, then forced to put trust in the Chamber of Deputies and to come back here not without some embarrassment, as happened with regard to the world of school precarious. In the months of the election campaign promises and commitments have been wasted on the thousands of people who, legitimately, for years have been waiting for a clear, precise and - in our opinion - the protection of their workers' rights. Well, after the disaster - it is worth repeating - of the good school, of law no. 107 of 2015, which provided to put people with so many years of teaching out of the world of school, as in the case of the magisterial graduates, the policy of the real of what is called the Government of change has emerged. The confusion that has arisen over some of the amendments today also brings us back here to discuss what we have already said in the first week of August. That of the world of school, however, is only one aspect on which it was possible and needed to intervene in a different way. And I will repeat it to boredom, because I know well what is in the hearts of so many colleagues, or at least those who, like me, have had the honor and the burden of being administrators of the Provinces. We have, because of the Delrio law, a ghost institutional level in Italy. Today the Provinces are really a useless body. They weren't yesterday. Then we hope - and we had already done so through the tabling of amendments, which we are proposing with less confidence, unfortunately, on the basis of what is perceived - that the question of elections will not be put at the centre. Today the elections for the Provinces are really not significant. It is a question of finding heroes who represent an institutional level completely emptied of the substantial possibility of giving answers to the territories. It would have been - and continues to be by us through the presentation of an agenda - a commitment by the Government to return to direct election, to give dignity to that institutional level; a commitment that must be immediate, the one that is emerging, to give answers, in terms of intervention, to thousands of kilometers of provincial roads and to secondary schools abandoned to themselves. For years there have been no routine or extraordinary maintenance. It is not acceptable that there is an institutional level with precise functions which, beyond the political administrative capacity of its representatives, is not in a position to operate. We have a responsibility for the safety of citizens; we have a responsibility for the safety of thousands of pupils. And I remember that the school year has just begun with problems everywhere in the national territory. If we do not want to be part of a mistake and tragedy that we do not hope for, we need to be fully aware that this problem must be dealt with immediately. Let's do it together. I am convinced that there is a transversal sensitivity to the political parties, because every day we all receive the alarm cry of our local administrators. And the same alarm cry comes to us on the question of the funds for the suburbs, an absolutely exigent issue for urban regeneration and to ensure that, within the same municipal reality, there are no A-series citizens and B-series citizens. In addition, finalising these huge resources means responding in terms of the reopening of the yards, the relaunching of development and employment. Our hope is that there will still be room for this comparison. If the majority thinks so, I think it is possible. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u44	She's enlisted to speak Senator Stable. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u45	Mr President, as a doctor, I would like once again to draw the attention of this House to the serious responsibility of those who choose not to ensure adequate vaccination coverage for our children at the moment. On this issue in recent years there has been a wave of irrationality, so few (true or presumed) cases of serious problems related to vaccines have been amplified, creating doubts and fears. They bounced on social networks fake news on this topic and it is time, now, to recover a rational attitude and behavior. Vaccines are safe, and we know that because science tells us. They are sure not in the sense that rare complications, but even serious ones, are never possible. Complications are possible, but safety comes from the fact that serious complications are very rare, in view of the great benefits shown in terms of reducing mortality and preventing serious, life-threatening and life-threatening diseases. Security - What Does Security Mean? It does not mean the impossibility of negative effects, which would correspond to another irrational thought, because all or almost all human actions involve a certain risk. We get in the car without any problems, but there are accidents. Even if we walk, sooner or later some of us will stumble. Eating, it can always be that someone gets a bite of a side dish. Therefore, it is an irrational attitude to demand that safety be guaranteed in absolute terms. It is necessary that policy recovers rationality and funds its decisions on the best scientific evidence we have available at the moment; and they, in favour of vaccinations, are very solid. I would like to remind you once again in this House of some data, in order to re-emphasise the scope and relevance of the subject. Let's talk about measles: one in a thousand cases of measles complicates in cephalitis, severe disease, frequently fatal or cause of disabling outcomes. Instead, we talk about the order of magnitude of one in a million cases for serious serious effects related to vaccination. The same can be said with regard to cough. The cough in very young children has a mortality rate that is around a few units per hundred cases of pertussis; the vaccination instead comes to cause some important problem in few cases in one million vaccinees. Vaccines are drugs, of course, and as drugs can have side effects, but they are far less than the drugs we commonly take; they are far less than some foods: peanuts - which no one has ever dreamed of discouraging - cause even very serious and potentially fatal allergic reactions with a certain frequency. Therefore a recovery of rationality is necessary. In addition to personal protection, it is important for vaccines to have herd immunity, i.e. immunity in the population, guaranteed by a very high vaccine coverage, which is not only used to protect those who cannot vaccinate (so much has been said about immunodepressed children), but serves to protect the whole population, because, in the event of an epidemic, a considerable number of cases occur in the vaccine. Few have this aspect in mind, because vaccines generally do not give a 100 percent coverage. Therefore, this measure, which for us is a measure of civilization and is to protect the entire population and in particular the children and children, who cannot decide, is the interest of the entire population. We too would like to work on full and adequate information, work on sharing, work on people's awareness. But what has happened, with the amplification of false news, the debate that has taken place in recent months, the very fact that there are delays in the vaccination obligation, the fact that this obligation becomes an obligation and even hears of so-called flexible obligation, creates confusion and disorientation in families, so often that it happens that parents, who previously would have had no doubt or problem to vaccinate their children, now raise doubts, are puzzled and do not know what to do. All this goes against the objectives stated instead of wanting to pursue with regard to sharing and awareness. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u46	He's enlisted to speak Senator Paroli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u47	Mr President, I do not want to give up speaking, although we all know that the issue of the Provinces contained in the thousand-pronge will not satisfy the request of so many directors and mayors who ask to be protected, to have dignity, to have a viable path for their demands. This milleproroghe, unfortunately, is confirmed a norm that has neither head nor tail. Whether it is extended or advanced is not understood well because, unfortunately, as well as the Provinces are treated in this provision (I tell the friends of the League, with whom we have fought many battles and with whom we have made many proposals), what seemed impossible comes true. In fact, this provision manages to humiliate the Provinces even more than the so-called Delrio law has done to date. The Delrio law intervened on an apparatus, that of the Provinces, that had some gaps, because there were the Provinces, like mine, of 1.250.000 inhabitants and Provinces that had little more than 100,000 inhabitants, but the answer could not be to make unthinkable any possibility of dignity of the Provinces and of action, making sure that the best technicians fled, that there were not sufficient resources, as I heard from other colleagues. The skills that the Provinces had were very important and still are, in part: from road to roads, from school construction to vocational training, from the environment to land management. Today these skills are left without adequate references from the point of view, on the one hand, of training and the possibility of having the availability of managers and employees and, on the other, of resources. There are no resources and we do not have the opportunity to make sure that the Provinces can give answers to the small municipalities. If I think about my Lombardy, there are municipalities that cannot have a direct relationship with a region that has now exceeded 10 million inhabitants. The Delrio law provided for a President-in-Office for four years and a provincial council in office for two years, after which the provincial council was renewed for two more years. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the term that you set makes it possible that some Provinces do not go to the vote at all on 31 October, that others go to the vote to elect the President and others to elect only the provincial council: in this way we managed to overcome, with the humiliation of the Provinces, of all the directors and of the mayors, even what Delrio has wrong and I am surprised, because from a mayor I would never have expected this. The theme is that on October 31 we will vote for the Provinces, I do not know with what clamor or passion (I see a completely dazed territory in which we say something like: we have to do it and do it), but we know that those services that the Provinces will administer (until they are removed) will serve the Municipalities and our citizens and then an answer must be given immediately. Aware that this rule cannot be changed between today and tomorrow in this House, I appeal to the President of the 1st Borghesi Commission: from 31 October, after the vote of the Provinces, we will have a survey, a quick study, which will make it clear that if we want to help our administrators who have direct contact with citizens (unions and municipal councillors), we must also give them Provinces who can support that work. I conclude by saying that Forza Italia and other political forces (the League in particular) have presented draft laws that go in the direction of the direct election of the Provinces; it can be done with the European elections at no cost for the country and therefore I really ask for a qualitative leap on this. We made an omelette and we created a monster that today has been even worse in its contents: let's make it right, let's give dignity. If anyone thinks that the Provinces are useless the gates, immediately; if he thinks that they can still serve - as we think - the constitutional and administrative architecture of our Regions and our Municipalities, we give them back their dignity and return to the direct vote. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u48	Senator Berardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak again in this House today on the Bolkestein directive, which is an arch-known affair, but unfortunately has not found its own dimension. Tourism is a sector with a decisive weight in our country's economy, as it is worth 11% of GDP and 12.5% of employment. The beach destinations are the favourites of 68 percent of tourists, who are very satisfied with the services offered, with as many as 30,000 companies and over 100,000 employees in the sector. I do not have any legal references, because this is not the first time we have talked about the Bolkestein directive in this House and it would take much longer than what I have at my disposal. However, I would like to highlight a number of key points once again. Along our entire peninsula the bathing establishments represent a fundamental economic sector, which cannot be left at the mercy of a regulation still uncertain, nor even waiting for tables or technical meetings that to date is not given to know when they will happen. We need a reform law that guarantees these companies and protects the specificities of their activities. Over the last few decades, bathing operators have improved, with their work, sacrifices and investments, the appearance and functionality of our coasts, to make them the symbol of tourism excellence that the whole world envies us. This heritage, which is not only economic, but cultural and I would even say identity of our country, risks being annihilated, destroyed, lost forever. It is therefore our duty to prevent this from happening, by protecting the thousands of small, often family-run businesses that have given life and body to the sector. In fact, we are not defending lobbyists, big investment funds or strong powers, but only and only our Italian families, who for too long have been in a situation of obvious uncertainty. We at Forza Italia, with President Silvio Berlusconi in mind, have always been at the side of workers and the world of work. Unfortunately - and I am sorry - we cannot say the same of you, who have only created damage to the world of work, starting with the so-called decree of dignity, to continue with the confusion about the rankings of teachers (master's degrees, TFA, support etc.), until you arrive at the absurd - and I hope you will come back - proposal for the closure of commercial exercises on Sunday. That is a sector that employs more than 450,000 people and risks - we do not understand in favour of what - a significant decrease of thousands of workers' units. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The Italians - allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to address all of you - ask for real work and certainly not for your alms. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u50	The general debate is closed. As established by the Conference of Leaders, the discussion of the measure will resume tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. with the reply of the representative of the Government. I therefore refer the examination of the draft law back to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u53	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for over twenty years, the inhabitants of the municipality of Troia, in the province of Foggia, and of the areas adjacent to this municipality have lived together with a real ecological bomb, which consists of an abusive dump in Giardinetto di Troia, in the area of the former brick factory, a brick factory. In this site and, therefore, in the abandoned sheds and squares, about 300,000 tons of toxic, harmful and dangerous waste from practically all over Europe have been illegally stored and buried. Unfortunately, the sheds are open, because they have been abandoned for many years now, and the waste is exposed to bad weather, so that when there are adverse weather events of a certain intensity - the so-called water bombs, the last of which occurred in mid-August - there is a serious danger that the meteoric waters and the winds carry this waste even at a considerable distance from the site, with obvious and serious prejudice to the health of the citizens. For almost twenty years this problem, unfortunately, has been practically ignored, but finally in these days in the Puglia Region is being evaluated the project presented by the Municipality of Troia for the characterization of the waste present in the site and for the reclamation of the same. The funds available are those of the action programme 6.2 Por Puglia ERDF-ESF 2014-2020, Axis VI. In recent months another project presented by the Municipality of Troia, relating to the interventions of type A of the ban, which provided for the safety of emergency and prevention measures of sites in the presence of primary and secondary sources of contamination, had unfortunately been rejected. Today, however, the municipality participates, together with other excluded municipalities, in a first phase of the request for funds for the security and we obviously hope that this time the project is worthy of approval and that, consequently, can finally start this important work of reclamation of the Trojan territory. This is to give a concrete response to all the citizens, to those who have fought for so many years, for almost twenty years, in this battle of justice and legality, to the committees, to the activists of the Movimento 5 Stars, but above all to the unfortunate citizens who have fallen ill in these years precisely because of the waste present in the illegal landfill. I'll finish. We will ensure that the activities, first characterization and then reclamation, are carried out as quickly as possible and in the best way. Our only objective is the health of our citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u56	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in Yemen for more than three years there has been a war between a Shiite Houthi minority and the Government of Hadi, which represents the Sunni wing, and therefore close to Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia is a country where Wahabiism prevails, which is the most radical doctrine of Islam; a doctrine that Saudis are trying to extend by financing jihadist and terrorist groups. The victims of the war in Yemen are at least 10,000. The children are suffering heavily from the direct and indirect consequences of this aggression. Save the Children calculated that every ten minutes in Yemen a child dies from hunger and disease caused by the blockade of the Saudi coalition. Mr President, there are 50 000 malnourished children who are at risk of dying this year, and a total of more than 8 million civilians are in serious danger because of a lack of food. In 2016, the Minister of Defence of the Renzi Government was Pinotti; in that year Italian arms exports doubled. In fact, in 2015 Italy sold weapons abroad for a value of 7,9 billion euros; in 2016 the total was 14,6 billion, with a sale mainly to those monarchies of the Gulf that certainly cannot be considered a beacon of democracy, in particular Saudi Arabia, a country that produced characters like Bin Laden, but also 15 of the 19 hijackers of the attack of 11 September 2001. Yet to Saudi Arabia in 2016 we sold weapons for €427.5 million, including 21,822 bombs produced in Sardinia; bombs that kill women, children and men every day. This is an unacceptable shame. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] As my colleague Lucidi mentioned, Saudi Arabia is a country accused by the UN, the European Union and Amnesty International of war crimes in Yemen. This sale of arms violates Law No 185 of 1990, which expressly prohibits the export of arms to conflicting countries. From this point of view, Luigi Di Maio and Minister Trenta were clear: change will also take place in this area. I conclude by saying that we no longer intend to continue to get our blood on our hands and we will take legislative action to strengthen this ban, in accordance with Article 11 of the Constitutional Charter. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u59	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I asked to speak in order to inform the House of the outcome of the appeal to the Council of State concerning the emergency room in Città della Pieve. Let me briefly summarise the facts. On March 1, 2017, the Umbria Region, within the framework of the reorganization of the hospital network, decides the closure of the emergency room of the City of Città della Pieve; an emergency room that serves an area of 12 municipalities, 60,000 inhabitants, a troubled area, with difficulties in the streets of communication and distant from other garrisons. In May 2017 the mayor of the Municipality of Montegabbione, Fabio Roncella, a municipality that is 10 kilometers from Città della Pieve, resorted to the TAR, together with a committee of citizens of the area born for the occasion, the "Committee art. 32," in defence of the constitutional right to health. In February 2018, the Committee and the Municipality won the appeal, because the TAR states that the constitutional right to health, the right to have defended life from a first aid that can allow an intervention in a short time, cannot in any way be the object of administrative cuts and reorganisations and only for economic and financial purposes. This happened in February 2018, but casually, in mid-March 2018, the Region of Umbria, instead of recognizing the rights of its citizens, decided to appeal to the Council of State, considering, as the city council member to the health of Umbria, that the tables were right and that they were stronger than the right to the health of citizens. On July 26 there was the session of the Council of State, whose sentence was made public today: this sentence says that what the Region did is legal, because the golden hour, which passes when the ambulance leaves, arrives, exercises the surgery and brings the patient, does not have to be calculated since the ambulance leaves, does the service and returns, but since it is already on the spot and therefore the fact that to arrive took forty minutes or an hour does not count. Today the Council of State has established that what the Region of Umbria said is legal, but it is not fair. Then I ask Parliament to be aware of this, because it is necessary to ensure that the right to health, enshrined in Article 32 of the Constitution, is not only recognised, but actually guaranteed, because it is Parliament's duty to ensure that choices are not merely legal, but that they are right and in the interests of the citizens. It is therefore important for Parliament to intervene, because things like this - there have been deaths in that area - cannot happen. [[Applause from the FI-L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u62	MARIN (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell you about Mr Mario Lister, a seventy-two-year-old citizen of Grado, because I feel obliged to deepen a dramatic event, buried between the lines of time. It was on December 18, 1998, when Brother Joseph, called Pino, and a colleague of Lodi driving a jeep near Brazzaville, Congo, were involved in a revolt still not attributable today. From the reports it would appear that the praiser was killed on the gunshot, while it is said that Pino, wounded, was dragged away by the attackers and from that moment he disappeared forever. Pino was a surveyor and was in Brazzaville for business reasons, in the construction sector. The Carabinieri of Grado station, in the province of Gorizia, then said that the Farnesina had reason to believe that Giuseppe Lister had been the victim of an ambush by the Congolese rebels and that he had disappeared without a trace. They reported, however, that they found a photocopy of his driver's license on the side of the road where the attack had taken place. In the course of time, two parliamentary questions were tabled and in the meantime Mario, his brother, spent as many as 8 million of the old lire to call all the telephone numbers relevant to the case, from Farnesina to the Italian embassy in Congo; he also contacted the Vatican, but no one was even able to tell if Pino, or Giuseppe Lister, was alive or dead. The answer was always the same, like an old striped disk: "If there's any news, we'll call it." Joseph, then, lived with a Congolese lady from whom he would seem to have had a son, currently resident in Piacenza. Yet neither the boy nor the mother gave an answer about Pino's disappearance. The Lister case also comes to the European Parliament asking for the intervention of the Congolese minister Cécile Kyenge, but Mrs Kyenge has never even answered. Presumed death. I observe this poor soul resigned, seated in front of me, who once again decided to tell her pain to a perfect stranger, hoping to close a mourning never declared. Currently, Mario's fate is similar to the fate of the fallen family members who solemnly bow before the Monument of the Unknown Milite, kissing the cold marble to feel the illusory warmth of a fake and impossible resignation that cannot warm or bring peace to the soul. But the victims of work abroad have no monuments, no medals. For them only the deep wound tattooed on the heart and memories from those who saw them leave and never return. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u63	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-37.ana.u64	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 20 September, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.21 a.m.
