ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 497, 149, 757, 776 and 789. The rapporteur, Senator Mantero, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before we start with the explanatory report on the Article, I would like to make a brief premise on what were the reasons for dealing with the problem of the smaller islands by means of a framework law. The smaller islands constitute an invaluable naturalistic, landscape, environmental, cultural heritage, and are also a great tourist resource for our country. But there are some difficulties that do not allow the full development of these territories. The reason for the use of a framework law has been dictated by the need to solve with multiannual programming the aforementioned difficulties for territories that, although geographically distant from each other, are united by absolutely similar problems and that can therefore be solved if addressed as a whole. The problems that unite these territories - it comes from itself - are mainly two. The first is territorial discontinuity, which makes transport, water supplies, communications, the right to study and health difficult and costly; and of course atmospheric events, even of a minor magnitude, due to the distance from the mainland, can completely isolate these territories. Therefore, situations that on the continent would not create problems, but in these areas they can create problems that are also important. The other problem of these territories is the lack of infrastructure due to the enormous disparity between the population living throughout the year and the population arriving in these territories during the tourist season. On the whole we have about 250,000 people with regard to the resident population, while we also reach a few million people during the tourist season, so the structures that are adequate during the year, may not be during the summer period. All the combined bill, apart from the Senate Act 789 which provided for the establishment of a productive free zone in the municipalities of the smaller islands, aims to address the issue in its complexity, assuming a multiannual programming of interventions to resolve infrastructure deficiencies, improve the living conditions of the inhabitants, making effective the principles of constitutionally guaranteed equality, and to enhance the importance of these environmental tourist resources. At its meeting on 12 September 2018, the Senate Act 497 was adopted as the basic text. Following this, a wide-ranging debate took place in the Commission, there was a very detailed and timely round of hearings and more than 200 amendments were tabled by all the parliamentary groups to improve and amend the legal text. The discussion of the amendments and the vote took place in the drawing up of Rule 12; then, at the request of some Commissioners, who evidently considered me too strict a rapporteur, we moved to the referring seat, where we had the rest of the vote up to Rule 24 of the text and the vote on the final text. The text has been modified by the adoption of several amendments, many of the rapporteur's but also many of the parliamentary groups (i.e. on the initiative of the various senators). Most of the rapporteur's amendments were aimed at transposing the comments of the consultative committees and the various ministries concerned (this being a framework law the ministries concerned were many). The initiatives of the various parliamentary groups have not been neglected in the debate either. The main change made in the discussion in the Commission was the extension of the scope of the law, which was born exclusively for the smaller marine islands to which the smaller lagoon and lake islands were added, included in Annex B of the draft law. I now come to the explanatory report on the text. Since, as I said before, the text consists of 24 articles, some of which are also quite important, I do not think I have time to give an in-depth explanation, so I will give it a summary, asking for permission to deliver the text of the report, so that it is annexed to the proceedings of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u6	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u7	Mr Mantero, rapporteur. The draft law No 497, as approved by the Commission, covers the framework law for the development of smaller marine islands, lagoons and lakes and consists of 24 articles and 2 annexes: Annex A, which lists 57 marine islands, and Annex B, which lists 16 lagoon islands and six lagoon islands. Article 1 indicates the object and purpose of the bill and also refers to European legislation and the Constitution. The most important novelty within Article 1 is that provided for in paragraph 6, in which a definition of smaller islands has been inserted and it is the first time that this is done. There have been various other acts, including - if I am not mistaken - a fund dedicated to the smaller islands in the Stability Act 2008, but there had never been a single definition in this sense, that we insert in paragraph 6 of Article 1, referring to Annexes A and B in which, as I said before, are indicated the marine islands, lagoons and lagoons. Article 2 provides for the development and enhancement objectives of the smaller islands, such as sustainable mobility, facilitated by the use of environmentally friendly vehicles or powered by electric or hybrid technologies; the promotion of tourism supply, provided that it is compatible with the load capacity of ecosystems, since we are dealing with small environments, with protected marine areas, therefore of course tourism supply must also be proportionate to sustainability; the increase of energy production from renewable sources with relative storage systems to balance possible load variations; the promotion of interventions for the energy efficiency of public and private real estate; the promotion of systems for electrification of docks, also in this case preferably through renewable sources, and the valorization of cultural, environmental property. During the discussion, Article 3, which is the cornerstone of the bill, has undergone numerous changes compared to the original text. Paragraph 1 specifies that the Single Document for the programming of the smaller islands (DUPIM) is used for the operations of realization on the territory of the islands and is adopted by decree of the Ministry for Regional Affairs and the autonomous ones, on proposal of the committee, created from the same article, instituted near the Department of the regional affairs of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, presided by the Minister for regional affairs and the autonomous ones. Paragraph 2 states that the municipalities concerned contribute to the preparation of the aforementioned DUPIM through the development of integrated territorial development projects. In paragraph 3 it is arranged that the integrated projects of territorial development prepared by the municipalities pursuant to paragraph 2 constitute the operational programming tools in which are identified the individual projects to be carried out, that will then be inserted in the DUPIM, for which there will be the financings then established by article 4. Paragraph 6 sets out the composition of the committee, which has been given a central role and has been tried to give a composition as representative as possible of all the parties concerned. In addition to collecting the DUPIMs approved by the Regions and proposing them to the Ministry for Approval, the Committee also gives an opinion on the criteria for allocating the Fund. The duration of this programming plan is seven-year and coincides with the seven-year programming of the European Union's Structural Funds. Article 4 provides for the establishment of two funds, one per current part and one in capital account, respectively with a budget of EUR 10 million per current part and EUR 20 million per annual capital account from 2019 to 2024. The Fund is used for operations in the DUCIM and it has been decided to divide it, in Article 5, 90% of the islands in Annex A, namely the marine islands, and 10% of the islands in Annex B, i.e. the lake islands. I would simply like to thank my fellow Members for the work they have done in the Commission, which I believe has, however, been fruitful and constructive. I would like to stress the important and timely work done by the Commission's technicians, thanking them for their work. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u8	I declare the general discussion open. Senator De Siano is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one of the fundamental principles of the Constitution is that the citizens of our country are all equal, have the same rights and are subject to the same duties. For the vast majority of citizens living in the smaller islands or small Italian islands, however, that is not the case. They are not citizens who enjoy the same rights as others. The problem had also been identified by our founding fathers who, in Article 119 of the Constitution, provided that, for the disadvantages experienced by the citizens of the smaller islands, special appropriations should be made available to the regions and municipalities of those islands so that they could overcome these disadvantages. What are the disadvantages for the citizens of the smaller islands? I'm an islander and I live a small island, too. So, I know well, as a citizen who lives these territories and as a local administrator of the same (because I have been for many years) the problems that we all talk about for years but to which we hardly put hand to solve them in a concrete way. I am referring to the problems of health, transport, the cost of services, the cost of fuel. I say that very frankly. I live in Ischia. Do you know how much a liter of gasoline on my island costs? Two euros. Do you know how much a liter of diesel on my island costs? 1,90 euros. So, there is an disparity with other places in Italy. Let me give you another example. If a pregnant woman living on a Neapolitan island, such as Procida, is to give birth suddenly and must be taken to the hospital, if there is wind and the conditions of the sea are not good, she must rely on the will of the Lord, because there is no other way and there is no solution. These are the real problems facing the citizens of the smaller islands on a daily basis. It is important and significant for this Parliament to consider the debate on a draft law on the smaller islands. I recognise to the President of the Commission the fact that she has also committed herself to carrying out such a bill, together with many other colleagues, in the last parliamentary term. Today we begin the discussion, a path and a path, but it is only the beginning. We, as the Forza Italia Group, are in favour of discussing such a problem, but it is only the beginning. This bill is a container of good intentions; it is a container of many good intentions but, if you go to the substance, it lacks the financial cover necessary to ensure that those good intentions can become concrete realities within the smaller islands. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] There are good intentions and money is being allocated again, the so-called DUPIM funds, for the realization of works that can be fundamental for the development of the smaller islands. I say that they start to allocate resources again because it should be remembered that the first time this was done, specifically with the aim of developing the smaller islands, happened at the beginning of the 2000s with the Berlusconi Government, when there were the first annual appropriations of 100 million. At that time I was mayor of the Municipality of a minor island and I can testify concretely to the advantages derived to those territories from such funding. As the years passed, those annual loans of 100 million have been reduced to the point of disappearing altogether. It is therefore good that such funding is being reintroduced today, albeit to a lesser extent. As part of the draft law, I also noted in Article 17 the positive transfer of regional property to municipalities. It is a significant fact: as a citizen of a smaller island concretely witness - to 99 percent - the state of abandonment of these goods, which, transferred to the municipalities, can positively affect the developments of those territories. In conclusion, as I said at the beginning, I believe that this bill should be in line with other types of intervention. There was an initiative for constitutional reform, one of whose signatories and promoters was Senator Floris, aimed at sanctioning the disadvantage of insularity in the Constitution. I believe that this is the main road through which Parliament, by cutting down existing party and ideological differences, can begin a path of modernization and growth of decisive territories. In addition to the draft law under consideration, we should reason to include in that draft constitutional law another fundamental rule, namely the merging of municipalities into homogeneous areas, within territorial realities such as the smaller islands. I'm an Ischitan...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u10	You have to finish, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u11	DE SIANO (FI-BP). I live in Ischia, an island of 34 square kilometers, with about 60,000 inhabitants, six municipalities, six administrations and six municipal councils; in short, six different mentality to administer a homogeneous territory. Many times - in 99 percent of cases - on one street with two sidewalks, on the right we think in one way, on the left in another. A Parliament that wants to work in a concrete and serious way in the interests of the country must put itself in the resolution of these issues. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u12	Colleagues, the Presidency is sorry to interrupt and is rude to those who are speaking, so I ask you to remain in time. Consider that when you start flashing the microphone light, you still have one minute, and there are more surgeries to do. She is registered to speak Senator Messina Assuntela. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's decisions in this House concern important communities, the smaller islands, which have a symbolic value and a concrete importance. Offering a solution to the problems felt by our fellow citizens is our whole mission and today, in particular, we have a duty to do our part to repair some of the conditions suffered by the inhabitants of the smaller islands. The smaller islands are among the most precious resources of our country; they are a source of pride and prestige from the cultural, landscape, tourist and economic point of view. Their uniqueness, however, due to their particular geographical location, is due to economic, social and territorial needs of great importance. Ignoring these needs would mean that we are going to live in a different condition than the communities of peninsular Italy. This is the main reason why it has been essential to deal with a deep analysis and the subsequent revision of their discipline, so that the State can take responsibility for removing those obstacles that characterize their peculiar condition and which sometimes hinder the full enjoyment of the civil, social and economic rights of the island populations. Starting from these considerations, it was appropriate to think of a special legislation that took into account the absolute extraordinary nature of these small and micro local realities and that could, therefore, equip the local administrations with resources and tools to promote economic, social and cultural development with a view to the protection of the territory and the sea. The draft law, therefore, aimed to innovate this discipline, giving them new prerogatives, more financial and administrative autonomy, as well as greater guarantees by the State. The first purpose of this law was to provide the inhabitants of the smaller islands with greater protection as regards rights and services, to open up new areas of economic and tourist growth and to provide essential means for the valorization of the cultural and natural resources they hold. The Democratic Party has worked to build on the principles of the green economy, sustainable and ethical growth, respect for biodiversity and the ecosystem, based on the promotion of sustainable mobility and the production and consumption of energy from renewable sources compatible with the different island contexts. Unfortunately, however, all these good intentions, the excellent principles, the conviction of being able to improve the condition of discomfort felt in these parts of the country with measures to implement its health services, to support its local school system, to ensure a sustainable development of a respectful growth of their peculiarities, have had to clash, at times, with the opposing opinions of the majority. To provide for this with an organic discipline and attentive to many aspects of the life of these citizens without then having the financial resources necessary for the achievement of all these objectives has the only effect of converting a good law into a sterile law, deprived of any possibility of being fully implemented. Yet, throughout the course of the work of drafting and amending the law carried out in the Environment Commission in the last period, our intention has been to bring about qualitative and tangible changes always aimed at improving the living conditions of those who live in those splendid realities. We have been promoting amendments aimed at providing more assistance to local authorities with regard to the ordinary and extraordinary management of the territory. We have also put forward proposals in the field of taxation, aimed at giving the administrators of these communities greater scope for manoeuvre. In addition, a proposal for an increase in the Fund, aimed at reducing the specific difficulties of the Fund itself, has been put forward, asking, moreover, that the identification of the resources of the Development Fund itself be not the result of an autonomous decision, but decided with the involvement of the unified Conference, representative of the local authorities concerned. Finally, we felt it necessary to reinvigorate our commitment to environmental protection by proposing the introduction of new instruments to combat soil pollution and, above all, water pollution. But as already anticipated, however, despite our difficulties in finding adequate resources to make operational the response to the legitimate needs of the communities of the smaller islands prevent sufficient achievement of the objectives, although these were widely appreciated and shared. Especially on the basis of these complications, it was considered appropriate to ask to deepen the examination of the bill and extend the discussion to the entire Assembly to call everyone's attention to the topic, trusting in the sensitivity of each of the present, also to give answers to the document sent to us by the mayors of the ANCI who ask for an urgent meeting to the Government. Starting today, we are all invested in the responsibility to give the communities real and concrete answers to the problems that every day unfairly disturb their legitimate expectation of enjoying - like all others - constitutionally guaranteed rights and opportunities. This, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of the environment, for the sake of human health, for the health of the sea and, above all, for the sharing of principles and values that are a source of beauty that we all deserve and protect. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we could define the draft law that is about to be passed, but I cannot. It concerns the smaller islands which, like or perhaps more than the larger islands, pay the price of being isolated from the Continent. In addition to the cuts made on transfers from the State to the municipalities of reference, in fact, the same suffer the reductions of transfers by the regions of which they belong. There is no award to be islands. The 7 million islanders have no obvious advantage, even less the 400,000 inhabitants living in the smaller islands in Italy. There is no territorial continuity, there are no economies on a scale that can be achieved for any service that can be provided on the continent. There is a lack of public services, often inadequate, and often also the possibility of taking turns in health care facilities on the smaller islands. Everything is measured at the minimum number of residents, which is that of the winter period and not at the maximum influx periods. Therefore, the normal life of residents is measured on parameters different from those of Italian citizens. In addition to this, it must be said that, despite the law individuals well - listing them - the sectors most penalized, it does not identify the roads and resources necessary to solve the problem, therefore with reference to health, school, hydrogeological failure: everything is done using the human, financial and instrumental resources already available or in any case compatible with the resources available to current legislation. The bill, with continuous reductions of passage in passage, from the initial 100 million previewed for the smaller islands has reached 20 million for 2019, which become 20 plus 10 from 2020, but only until 2024. It is not, therefore, a structural solution that this problem would need. Temporary aid, and even the establishment of free zones limited to certain parts of the territory, has not helped any island out of a clear delay, which has lasted for years. I would just like to express the need to deal with the island gap permanently, so that we do not have to resort to temporary measures like this. Better said, last week we presented a draft constitutional law of popular initiative to incorporate the principle of insularity into our Constitution - or it would be better to say reinsert it, since it had been removed in 2001. The proposal provides for the amendment of Article 119 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and the inclusion, after the fifth paragraph, of a new period according to which: The State recognises the serious and permanent natural disadvantage resulting from insularity and provides for the necessary measures to ensure effective equality and effective enjoyment of individual and inalienable rights. This was present in the Constitution and we ask for it to be reinstated. The signatures on this proposal have reached 100,000 - it seems to me that the number needed is 50,000 - and have been largely verified by the Senate Offices, whom I personally thank in this House. I repeat that the signatures are more than double those necessary for the presentation of the bill of popular initiative and have not been collected in Sardinia, Sicily or other smaller islands. No: they have been collected everywhere, even in the municipalities of the continent, not excluded Genoa, Milan and Rome. They made banquets where people spontaneously went and signed, consciously, once they knew the theme, to have to put their signature. The importance of this proposal lies precisely in the fact that the greater benefit of the recognition of the disadvantage resulting from being islands would be granted to islands located in regions with ordinary statutes. In fact, Sardinia and Sicily could also propose changes to the rules governing their Statutes and ask for more resources than those already assigned by constitutional law. Therefore, the intervention in the Constitution is centred on Sardinia and Sicily, but above all on the smaller islands. The constitutional change is intended to include in our Constitution the principle that insularity is a clear, tangible and permanent disadvantage. The facilitation that we are asking for for islands is not a tout court issue, but it is an obligation that the Italian State should feel towards the territories suffering from permanent hardships. I would like to emphasise two aspects. Firstly, I welcome the work done by the offices on the Office's study file on the Senate Act 497. I really ask everyone to read the first four pages of the dossier, where we highlight the absence of an important determination from our state towards Europe, which is sensitive to this problem, to the digital agenda, to energy supply, to mobility, to maritime policy, to trade made difficult, to tourism, to water resources and to education. In other words, the European Union already indicates the hardships suffered by the islands and calls for the specific situation of the island regions to be taken into account when preparing the proposal for the next multiannual financial framework. Members of the Government, wake up! In the face of an offer such as that which comes from the European Union to keep in mind the inconveniences of the island regions, all is silent. President Licheri, I would ask you to read - I know you have already done so - the first three pages of the Senate Studies Service dossier. This is the way: to have a recognition of the inconveniences for the smaller islands not only by the Italian State, but also by the European Union, which makes itself available to deal with them. The problem is not the relationship between the majority and the minority. No, it's not. We are faced with a problem that must concern all of us and, for this reason, I would also ask the whole House to pay attention to the proposal for constitutional reform that will be examined in the Senate. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u16	You are registered to speak Senator Nastri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u17	Mr President, the text that comes to the Senate Assembly today is the result of a long debate that began in the last parliamentary term, without, however, reaching the final adoption of the measure. It is therefore proposed in this new legislature a measure to promote the development of the smaller islands, which assumes as the basic text the bill n. 497, which, among other things, collects the work carried out by the Commission territory, environment, environmental goods in order to remove the many obstacles that - as we have said before - are present in the organization of the island life, because of its peculiarities. The examination and debate in the Commission on land, the environment and the environment have been characterized by very critical times and methods - in my opinion -. The measure would need more time to check the numerous provisions of the regulatory framework. However, the uncertainty of the Government has caused continuous referrals and, above all, the provisions of the amendments that the Brothers of Italy Group has also tabled. We are, therefore, faced with a text that deals in a partial way with the articulated criticalities that have been afflicting the island communities of our country for years. The smaller islands - as is well known - are a particular and complex reality in which popular traditions and artistic, environmental and tourist values are combined and are characterized by numerous factors that sometimes arise also in the form of problems related to the particularity of the territory, the limited availability of own resources, the additional costs of transport and communications and especially marine and coastal pollution. On the other hand, insularity is a potentially exploitable point, also important, in terms of the strategic policy of sustainable development aimed at the correct use of resources and respect for landscape characteristics. Unfortunately, there is no trace of this peculiarity in this text. Any question concerning the smaller Italian islands is also linked to the general situation of the Mediterranean Sea. Its apparent decadence as a way of water has not prevented it from maintaining, in all these years, both politically and strategically, a role of great protagonist. In this respect it is significant that the smaller Italian islands of the Mediterranean are largely marine parks or reserves that contribute to the protection of the environment in the entire Mediterranean region. This characteristic should prompt the European Union and Parliament not only to declare their attention to the problems of the islands but also to activate specific policies in order to be able to help and support growth. On the other hand, on this occasion too, we are witnessing a regulatory system and above all a bureaucracy that casts on the potential dynamics of economic growth, slowing down all kinds of attempts at concrete development. Having said that, in the course of the examination in the Commission, including through the round of hearings that have been held, it was possible to understand the need for a regulatory review in this area, dictated by the need to carry out a thorough analysis of the smaller islands resulting from economic and, above all, territorial needs. It is also known the particular position of the smaller islands present in the Italian territory, and we speak of Campania, Lazio, Liguria, Puglia, Sardinia, Sicily and Tuscany. They constitute 36 municipalities with a very vast territory and above all with a population of about 220,000 inhabitants, but they are located in a particular geographical and political context and, therefore, worthy of different consideration compared to ordinary legislation. From this point of view, the regulatory framework provided for in the draft law under consideration would deal in practice with everything, from waste disposal to water supply, the administration of justice, the rooting of entrepreneurial activity and the development of sectors such as agriculture and fisheries, which become increasingly problematic and, above all, more burdensome. These are all aspects that - it is useless for us to turn around - would need adequate, important financial resources, which in this measure, unfortunately, are not foreseen, because the halving of the initial resources allocated to the smaller island development fund, which for 2019 is reduced from EUR 100 million to EUR 50 million, and especially the critical remarks coming from the Budget Commission, according to which the current part of the measure is covered only from the year 2020, say a lot about the difficulty that this bill is likely to find in its application. The text also addresses a number of needs and emergencies in an attempt in some way to optimize and better resolve the problems of local realities. That is why, in my opinion, it should have been more involved - and it has also emerged in the course of the hearings - the private actors who would have brought those experiences and improvements necessary to make the most of the island territories. The regulatory system, on the other hand, has been written exclusively by public bodies, and therefore State, Regions and Municipalities, while it is completely lacking the private part, which would also have given an added value. At such a fast time, it would have been appropriate to involve private individuals through project financing that - as I have already said - would have brought that added value that could leverage growth and above all for the development of the territories in question. There has been no mention of this in the Federalberghi Commission, which has highlighted the need for greater involvement of tour operators and business organisations in all decision-making processes. I note, among other things, that the text also contains rules of excessive detail and, as usual, bureaucracy is the boss. We would have liked to see a more uniform discipline in this area, which has been remedied with unfortunately sporadic and exceptional measures and with occasional and, above all, fragmentary tax breaks. I quote - for example - Article 1, which speaks of competition and the involvement of resident citizens as a fundamental prerequisite for the principle of subsidiarity. But what does it mean to be involved if people are not better channeled into ideas and proposals? The smaller islands cannot be in a condition of subalternity with respect to the regions of belonging and, in general, to the rest of the national territory. There is no trace - for example - of the continued presence of first aid doctors, with negative consequences that will certainly fall on the weakest. How are you going to explain this to your voters? And again, the abolition of the permanent garrisons of civil protection: initially they were provided for in the text, but in the new Article 10 there is no trace of them. Even with this measure, unfortunately, you have shown that you are a little superficial in lawmaking and above all in managing the administrative machinery of the country. You didn't have any vision. You had the opportunity - as I said at the outset - to develop a text which was especially useful to these islands. I would add that the areas that inevitably involve the smaller islands - and I am referring to maritime transport, which is considered as a priority to ensure territorial continuity with the mainland - will continue, as always, to have the usual difficulties, drawing on the few resources that are available. So many other things could be done. One of the amendments that unfortunately failed us in the Commission was the one that set up a free zone. Brothers of Italy considers the tourism economy of our country the real driving force behind growth and development, capable of generating wealth and also new employment. That is precisely why an amendment, tabled by myself and other colleagues, referred to an exemption from total income tax for the first five years and partial tax periods for subsequent periods up to the ninth. These were certainly important issues. It should not be forgotten that the smaller islands belong for the most part to the southern part of Italy and unfortunately also present the problems of the South. I am referring to agriculture, which is in a minimal and often primordial form, to industry, which has almost never arrived and also to fisheries, which has its serious problems. For these reasons, the current regulatory framework would need improvements, and that is precisely why we are calling for a return of the measure to the Commission in order to give concrete solutions to the problems of these islands. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u18	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto Comprehensivo (Comprehensive Institute) Via Ormea (Via Ormea) in Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u19	Senator Papatheu is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as can be seen from my accent I am Sicilian, and therefore islander; an islander who, when he leaves his land and after crossing the Strait of Messina by ferry, arrives at Villa San Giovanni where he reads - like many of you, because you have been elected to the South and also to my Sicily - "Welcome to Italy". I thought that Sicily together with Italy was part of the whole country, but obviously it is not, because in Sicily I never had the opportunities I see in Italy. As an islander, I have never been able to have those prerogatives and advantages that those who live on land can enjoy. With the magnifying glass let's look at the smaller islands and here I must really congratulate you: the name "minor islands" is pleased because, once again, you recognize us that we are children of a minor god. So, thank you very much. A measure on the small islands of course was not good, because it was obviously not appropriate to the type of reality underlying it, that of being the children of a minor god. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and the Sudanese senator]] But let us come to this measure, ladies and gentlemen, and I address everyone, particularly those who are from the South, the Southern, those who speak like me. Maybe someone will speak Roman at the end of the legislature, but the accent that distinguishes us is our mark of origin, which recalls our culture, our history, an important history, that Italy has made: I remember the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies, but I am not here to extend, because I fear that President Taverna will call me back from here shortly, inviting me to stay in the times, which unfortunately always stretch for us of Forza Italia.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u21	Not yet.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u22	PAPATHEU (FI-BP). I want to call to the pride of being southern, even if our emphasis, unfortunately, does not appeal to those in the North, whose culture today is defending itself once again with the measure under consideration and with certain interventions which, once again, represent a mockery for us. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] While when there is a problem in the North, everyone with the emotions moved, put their hands to the wallet to pay, whatever happens in the South is normal. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and the Sudanese senator]] For us everything is normal, the continuation of a normality that sees us southern, that sees us always underdeveloped. But how did we get to this underdevelopment situation? Would you please reflect on this too, which you are part of the government today, perhaps without even having too many proper titles to play this role? Do you want to think about how the North has enriched itself at the expense of our South? I remember that the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies was impoverished by the Kingdom of Savoy; the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies had gold reserves of 443 million lire, and these values were all reset. The Kingdom of Savoy had only 20: this is our story. I will not dwell on the measure of which a single key element will be read by the islanders because, however underdeveloped we may be, even if we do not arrive every day in the newspapers, especially in the islands, we also read them. I will leave it to the administrators, citizens and islanders to assess the measure as it has been conceived. The key element of this draft law, however - and I am going to conclude, without even focusing on the content of the amendments - is the forecast for which we will do everything with what we have, that is, with the usual insufficient resources. This means that there was no contribution. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I have to say that, when I went to the Commission to discuss this measure, I was pleased to have met a very diligent President, a very picky and attentive rapporteur to everything that was going on and Secretary Gava always available and ready to give favourable opinions. Suddenly, on 4 October in the Commission, I felt like Alice in the wonderland, in the face of a deformed reality, in which everything had changed and all the Cassati amendments. I understand that there are budget laws that require you in the Commissions to give us that income that you call citizenship, but which once again represents the pity of the North towards the South and which once again humiliates us, because for us it is not the income of citizenship that gives us dignity, but it is the development, the work and the income that is drawn from work and thanks to which we can really be decent people. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] I therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to make a serious effort, reminding you of your origins. Those who are in the South today are you of the Movimento 5 Stars and I trust in you for a change. Although my Group represents Forza Italia, as a Southern representative, I naturally hope that you will be successful in this measure, which is obviously perfect. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u23	Senator La Mura is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u24	Mr President, kind senators, a framework law aimed at the enhancement and development of our smaller islands is now necessary: it is necessary because those territories represent a real wealth for our country, both from a cultural and environmental point of view, but above all because they present disadvantages due to the particular geographical morphology and ecosystem fragility to be protected. In fact, the protection of the marine and coastal ecosystem is even more urgent in the islands, since the only road connecting to the mainland takes place through the sea and this subject marine life to great stress. Article 2 of the draft law under consideration, which sets out the objectives for the enhancement and development of the smaller islands, specifies the desire to guarantee to the population of those territories services essential for a good quality of life, consistent with sustainable development, which aims at reducing the environmental impact, and that is what I will focus on. The article provides for a series of safeguards that I consider of extreme interest, such as promoting sustainable mobility with incentives to purchase vehicles powered by electric and hybrid technologies and interventions for cycling. It also refers to measures concerning means of transport which ensure territorial continuity with the mainland and promote tourism. I believe, however, that tourism must be promoted, yes, but always respecting and compatible with the load capacity of island ecosystems. For the increase in the production of energy from renewable energy sources, referred to in point (f), in order to reduce the costs for families, but also for environmental ones, I believe that primary structures - such as hospitals - must be guaranteed energy self-sufficiency from renewable sources in the event of an interruption of electricity. The measures adopted by Article 2 to optimise waste management and to ensure water supply are also appropriate, by promoting new water treatment and desalination plants. In the proposal for amendment 2.5 I would also ask you to specify the use of energy-efficient techniques. I would like to focus on some aspects of environmental protection contained in the amendment to Amendment 2.27, which relate to nautical diportism, the introduction of hydrocarbons into the sea and the serious damage to the seabed. I refer, in particular, to the possibility of equiping vessels with hybrid engines, allowing them to navigate safely with the petrol engine and, below coast, to use the electric motor, silent and above all not polluting. Another necessary measure is the installation of mooring fields anchored to the seabed through mechanisms with low environmental impact, indicated in the guidelines of the Ministry of the Environment, to protect the prairie of posidonia, a fundamental element for the protection of the marine ecosystem against water pollution and for the significant production of oxygen. Dear Senators, I conclude this speech with the hope that you will fully understand the importance of the draft law under consideration, because the small islands need a new regulatory framework that will enable them to develop economically and socially in respect of the environment. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u25	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Santangelo and Mr Gava, this framework law is so important for the protection and development of the smaller islands. I emphasize how, with respect to the basic text, thanks to the contribution of the League, in addition to the marine islands the measure has expanded to the consideration of the smaller lagoon islands, such as those of the Venetian lagoon and Grado, and above all, the smaller lake islands present in the lakes of our Country, of absolute rare beauty, such as Mount Isola of Lake Iseo, the islands of Lake Garda, the Comacina island of Lake Como or like the Major and Polvese islands of Lake Trasimeno, just to name a few. There are several objectives of this bill, which we hope will be able to find maximum sharing and consensus also in the Chamber of Deputies, which will certainly improve it. These are just some of the main objectives: to improve the quality of life of the inhabitants, through school, vocational training, social and health services and key public services, in order to counter the tendency to depopulation; to promote sustainable mobility, through cycle paths and the use of vehicles with low environmental impact; to improve maritime and lacual transport; to promote and retrain tourism supply, including through the exploitation of cultural, state property and environmental goods; to increase local energy production through the use of renewable energy sources; to develop systems for the accumulation of electricity; to create intelligent energy distribution networks, important for increasing energy production from renewable sources; to promote energy efficiency interventions on the public and private real estate and thus to reduce consumption; to promote the circular economy of the waste cycle; to ensure an efficient integrated water service, especially through an adequate sewage network and purification systems, to improve water quality. The programming tool for the actions to be carried out in the territory of the smaller islands in order to pursue these objectives will be the Single Document of programming smaller islands, of seven years duration, that will be prepared by the municipalities concerned through the elaboration of the integrated projects of territorial development, also through the involvement of representatives of entrepreneurial categories, workers and citizens. But the objectives are not pursued without resources. In this regard, this draft law intervenes on two fronts. The first increases the allocation of the Small Island Development Fund from 2020 by 10 million; the second also establishes the Small Island Investment Fund, with a budget of EUR 20 million for each of the years 2019 to 2024. The smaller marine islands are allocated 90% of the resources, while only 10% are allocated to lagoons and lakes. Therefore, since the smaller marine islands are mainly in the South, it is not true the thesis of my colleague Papatheu, that the money is stolen from the South. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] In six years, therefore, a total of EUR 170 million is committed. It will be a temporary measure, colleague Floris, but in six years this money allows you to make good and excellent programming. We have set the targets and allocated the resources; the bill identifies measures to implement the forecasts and to achieve the objectives. The municipalities of the smaller islands, within ninety days of the entry into force, however, will have to make censuses: they will have to make the census of the infrastructural endowment, of the schools, of the social-sanitary structures, of the harbour and airport structures, of the road networks, of the electricity, of the gas, water and sewer. They will also have to make the census of the historical, artistic, archaeological and monumental heritage, with its state of health. They will have to do the census of cultural, musical, religious, historical and tourist events that protect the cultures, identities and traditions of those peoples. They will have to do the census of small agricultural products of local origin, on which I remember that the League Group here in the Senate presented a specific bill. These reconnaissances are important in order to define projects for the recovery and valorization of the existing material and intangible assets. For the pursuit of the objectives, the measure - as I said before - introduces significant measures for which the State, the Regions and the local authorities will have to compete, according to their respective competences. Measures are envisaged to enhance and enhance hotel tourist services, giving the municipalities of the smaller islands the possibility to allow the rational use of the existing building stock, thus avoiding further land consumption. Measures are planned to improve health care for the resident population and tourists on the smaller islands, and the relevant regions are to reorganise hospital facilities, of course where they exist. There are also significant civil protection forecasts: the establishment of an advisory body, the creation of an emergency fund and the obligation to make an emergency and security plan, if not yet in place. Collaboration agreements and agreements with universities, as well as agreements with credit institutions, are planned to support the action of municipalities and the local productive fabric, and with Poste Italiane to improve postal services. In the field of hydrogeological failure, the competent regions are planning a survey of the financial needs for the implementation of the measures in this field. In addition, as there is talk of an increase in local electricity production, there is a plan to promote the construction of plants for the production and distribution of energy from renewable sources. Starting with the conclusion, the Lega Group, which has presented its own draft law on the subject of smaller islands, expresses its strong appreciation of the measure under consideration. In the Commission, we have helped, as well as all the groups, to improve the basic text and to obtain a meaningful final text, which is nevertheless perfect for the House. We are convinced that from the application of the measures envisaged the smaller marine islands, lagoons and lakes, which represent an important part of the territory of our country envied in the world, will have undoubted benefits. Let us remember that the protection and enhancement of the smaller islands does not only mean improving the quality of life of the resident population, which - we are sure - looks favorably at this measure, but it is also and above all action of economic development of our country through tourism, which is one of the sectors on which the Government is investing a lot, starting from the reorganization of the functions of the Ministries. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u27	She's enlisted to speak Senator Sudan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u28	Mr President, as has already been said, the draft framework law we are examining is the result of the work of the Commission in the last parliamentary term, where several requests have been made for several years. In fact, when the Presidency assigned this issue to the Commission, all the parliamentary groups accepted this issue with great interest, precisely because we all considered it essential to make a framework law to promote the development of the smaller islands, thus recognizing the serious disadvantages associated with the island nature of the areas in question, providing rules by way of derogation to overcome geographical, administrative and infrastructural gaps, to combat depopulation or economic depression and to provide contributions from the State. However, I believe that this issue - as other speakers have already said - needs to be addressed more as a problem of rights and inequalities in our country. Taking into account that Article 3 of the Constitution states that all Italian citizens have equal social dignity and that therefore the Republic removes all obstacles of economic and social order, I believe that in this Parliament, beyond the solutions we propose, we must have at heart, indeed it is our duty to overcome the inequalities between all Italian citizens, because everyone should have the same rights, as our Constitution guarantees. I believe, therefore, that we can no longer pretend not to see that this country has A-series citizens and B-series citizens and that the islanders are certainly among the B-series citizens. I do not think it is possible to accept that the degree of dignity in the life of an Italian depends on where he is born geographically. I believe that we must all assume the responsibility of directing resources and restoring equal and equal dignity to all Italian citizens. The time has come for the State to intervene to remove all the unsurpassed difficulties facing the islanders. I believe that, even before we look at the smaller islands as a valuable resource for environmental, natural, cultural, landscape and tourist reasons for our country - and certainly they are - we must first remove the obstacles that are dictated to us by the difficulty of the lack of territorial continuity, the distance from the mainland, the obstacles that we live within the smaller islands. It is unthinkable that an Italian citizen should still not be entitled to compulsory schooling. It is unthinkable that an Italian citizen to give birth - as has already been said - should run to the mainland, if weather conditions allow all this, because it may happen that the sea is in storm and you cannot go to the mainland. So I too would like to thank President Moronese for conducting the work of the Commission with great harmony among all the parliamentary groups. Each of us has presented draft laws and we have amended our text in relation to the basic text No. 497. We have all made provision for derogations from national legislation, for contributions to eliminate the differences in transport, not only personal but also waste and water. The island's citizens have a higher cost of living than the rest of Italian citizens, in absolute indifference, in indifference to television and indifference to this Parliament which, in many years, has never legislated a framework law. Honestly, what surprised me was the behaviour of the government, because I think it did not respect the work of the parliamentary groups. Everyone in its basic text has provided for derogations: who on education, who on health and has provided contributions precisely to eliminate differences. But the Government, which at first, through the Undersecretary Gava, had told the Commission that it would not intervene and that it would give a favourable opinion, suddenly began to express its views against it. But I cannot think that the 5 Star Movement, with a basic text signed by all Members, denies its own position. I cannot think that the colleagues of the League deny the position written in their basic text. So, I think the government missed an opportunity to rebalance our country's disparities. A government that makes a budget of 22 billion in deficit cannot fail to find 50 million to give back the rights to Italian citizens. They could also be in deficit, Mr. Undersecretary. You find them for the financial, let alone for such a situation. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] 10:44 a.m. (Sudano followed). This is not a minor law, because it concerns the smaller islands. This is a law that concerns the rights of all Italians. I'm going to the conclusion. It is true that we come to a framework law and that there had been nothing before. It is a law that has actually been emptied, a law that has become manifest but which, however, is a beginning. For this reason, the Democratic Party will vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u29	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pergreffi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators, representatives of the Government, the League is a political force that has always focused on the valorization of territories, in particular the smaller realities, where the distances and inconveniences of transport make life more difficult, but where, on the contrary, identities and sense of belonging are stronger and more rooted. Many in this House, like myself, come from mountain provinces: living in the valleys involves sacrifices for those who have a business or are an employee and are forced to wake up at dawn to reach the workplace; similarly, students are also obliged to travel long distances, sometimes from primary school, to get to school. Living on a small island is even more difficult than living in a small village in the upper Val Brembana or Val Camonica, since it must depend on other people's means, whether public or private, such as ferries. We therefore believe that this Parliament should try to make available financial and regulatory instruments that reduce the inconveniences that small island residents face on a daily basis. Just as for the mountains, even for the small islands it is essential to avoid depopulation, if you want to protect the territory in the best way, also from the environmental point of view (and it is not a contradiction, indeed): as we say that the mountain is in the first place of those who live there, in the same way the islands are in the first place of the islanders. In fact, we must not forget that those who live in the city are trivial everyday gestures, for those who live in the Aeolian or Tremiti are very complicated operations. Let's think of the 24 students of the Linosa multi-class, forced to lecture in video conference, because there are no teachers on the island; or a young man from Panarea who, in order to see a movie at the cinema, has to make two hours by ferry, stay all night in Milazzo and come back the next morning; or to a soccer team of kids from Ponza who wants to compete in a championship. On the Facebook page of the Polisportiva di Ponza I read a comment by this tenor, which struck me: We speak and write, but every year in Ponza in winter there are fewer people. If there were ten kids the other year, there are seven of them today. Those who live in a state of numbness, which leads them to isolate themselves, like their family members, who, accustomed to social ineptitude, try to invent themselves something to do. Walk through the panorama, buy a bike or a treadmill; some try to get a gym in the house, but they will hardly be able to join friends. Finally for some there is the hunting period and that of the squids. And in the evening the cards. If you don't understand that we have become "four cats" you will never understand how to solve problems. That is why we believe that these islands deserve an ad hoc law, not only to help them from the social and economic point of view, but also for their naturalistic and environmental value, unique and important and, as I said before, also for their cultural and identity aspect, which must first be protected and then valued. Having said that, we would like to stress our satisfaction with the vision of the 13th The Commission has also included the islands of the lagoons and the lagoons within Article 1 of the draft law. This is an important addition, which takes up bill No 757, at the first signature of Senator Briziarelli, which I would like to thank for his commitment to this. As for the lake islands in particular, although their number is limited, it is also necessary to stress their importance from a tourist, cultural and landscape point of view. To this end, we can not fail to mention the example of Monte Isola, on Lake Iseo, the largest lake island in Europe, inhabited by 1,740 people, jumped to the honors of the international chronicle in summer 2016, when, thanks to the artistic installation "Floating Piers" by the sculptor Christo, it attracted a million and a half visitors from all over the world in twenty days. Another important tourist destination is the Borromean Islands on Lake Maggiore, on which tens of thousands of visitors land every year to admire the historic gardens and mansions that characterize them. These islands, like the maritime ones, have economic and territorial needs that require a thorough analysis and revision of the current discipline, with ad hoc regulation. The bill No. 497 of Senator Moronese goes in this direction, and this is a positive aspect that we agree with, but in its original version it considered only the smaller islands and the marine archipelagos. It would have been a serious difference in treatment not to include the lake islands, since the elimination of inequalities that often make life less comfortable on the small islands and the strengthening of transport and transport policies, the removal of obstacles due to insularity, the efficiency of local services, the enhancement of natural and landscape beauties, and the assistance of civil and health protection, which can be read in the reports of the draft laws presented, certainly do not depend on the fact that water is salty or sweet. It should also be borne in mind that the financial part of this law, with the inclusion of the lake islands, will not undergo particular changes, since in Italy there are very few (only seven inhabited and included in the attached list), with a total population of less than 2,000 inhabitants, for a total area of not even 14 square kilometers. Despite being few and affecting few inhabitants, they must be worthy of attention for their tourist value, historical and economic and certainly do not deserve the humiliation of being forgotten. In view of these premises, we reaffirm our satisfaction for not having excluded the lake islands, in addition to those lagoon islands, we express appreciation for this measure and thank Senator Moronese and Senators De Poli and Ferrazzi, as the first signatories of the related drafts of law, and Senator Briziarelli, of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group, for having placed the attention to the islands of the Italian lakes with his proposal of law. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u31	Senator De Poli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u32	Mr President, the draft law before the House today takes a step forward in the direction I have personally hoped for in recent years by presenting a bill with the aim of promoting the exploitation and sustainable development of the marine islands, lakes and lagoons considered as smaller islands. We're talking about a specificity of our country. Italy, in fact, for the great part, overlooks the sea, as we know. The smaller islands are still experiencing considerable difficulties which slow down their potential development. It is important to remember here the focus on the issue of insularity, which was written in black and white in the original text of our Constitutional Charter. Article 119 of the Constitution, as my colleague, Mr Floris, mentioned a few minutes ago before the 2001 reform, made an explicit reference to the islands: In order to provide for specific purposes, and in particular to enhance the Mezzogiorno and the islands, the State grants by law special contributions to individual regions. From here, from the Senate Chamber, I would like to make an appeal for the issue of insularity to be re-inserted into the Constitution by considering a revision of Article 119 of the Constitution. We are aware that the constitutionalisation of the principle of insularity would allow real continuity between the smaller islands and the rest of Italy. In our legal system, however, there is particular attention to the needs determined by insularity, which is expressed in principle in Law No 42 of 5 May 2009, as well as in other rules which recognise these specificities. There are several important issues for citizens living in the marine islands, lakes and lagoons, from the policies of transports and connections, to the removal of obstacles due to insularity, from the efficiency of local services to the enhancement of natural and landscape beauties, from the organization of civil protection to health care. All these themes are a fundamental priority for Italian citizens living from Lipari in Sicily or Asinara in Sardinia or, to make other references, to the islands of Garda. These are three simple examples. However, in some respects, such as those relating to civil protection principals, public health infrastructure and welfare services, tax incentives for companies wishing to establish themselves in the territories, we cannot help but note that the text approved by the Commission and now before this House is weakened compared to the text I have presented. 10:53 a.m. (De Poli follow). I would like to point out the problem of resources. From the initial EUR 100 million, which is already insufficient, we have increased to EUR 20 million for 2019 and EUR 30 million for 2020-2024 and EUR 10 million from 2025. Unfortunately, there are still too few resources in favour of insularity. The measure is and is certainly a step forward, but the resources are at risk of not being adequate to achieve the aims it was intended to achieve. In conclusion, the measure is a starting point, but it is certainly not the point of arrival. In spite of everything, I personally consider the text that is being discussed today as a step forward. From tomorrow Italy will have a concrete legislative instrument to protect Italian citizens living in the smaller islands and, perhaps, beyond the political colors, I believe that the political forces in Parliament have shown that they can bring home some results, overcoming the diatribes between North and South and the political divisions to which someone referred before. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I believe that this is a measure for the whole of Italy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] As I said, it is a good starting point for promoting the development and sustainable development of the smaller islands. That is precisely why I believe that we will also vote in favour. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u33	She's enlisted to speak Senator Moronese. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u34	Mr President, I am addressing this House but also all the citizens who follow us from home. Today we are discussing a draft framework law for the protection, enhancement and development of the smaller islands. To explain this measure, I would like to start from a statement I have heard in this House (and also outside), namely that this is a text with many good intentions but basically empty. Before the general discussion I would have said that I disagree with this statement, but now I feel like sending it totally back to the sender: either the text has not been understood and the content has not been read, what it represents and means for the smaller islands, or it has looked elsewhere. Perhaps, then, we should make some clarity. In 1996 the first legislative text on the smaller islands was presented; it has been twenty-two years and Parliament has not had enough attention on this subject to bring it to the House; it has never dealt with the subject for twenty-two years. Only in the last parliamentary term have we tried to develop it in the Environment Commission; we worked for three years, yet at the time, in the last parliamentary term, the majority - which today represents the opposition - was unable, or there was no political will, to bring the bill to the Assembly with a coverage of 10, 30 or 100 million that it was. Why, then, do I say that this is a good bill? At last we have a definition of smaller islands, which includes, among other things, the marine ones, lagoons and lakes. We have finally equipped the draft framework law of two tables for the marine islands and for those lagoons and lagoons. Then, in Article 2, we have indicated certain objectives and aims, which the municipalities which present projects for the smaller islands - and who want to see these projects financed by the fund that we have made available - must respect. The objectives are varied and are what Europe asks of us in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union precisely in Article 174 referred to by Senator Floris; therefore they are included in the measure. It is enough to read Article 2 of Law No 497: to promote a good quality of life, to promote the creation of telecommunications services, sustainable mobility, transport services; to promote and retrain the tourist supply, the use and recovery of cultural goods; to promote and increase the production of renewable energy sources; to reduce the production of waste by promoting proper management, and much more. We have also defined an iter according to which all this must take place: the municipalities present the projects, bring them together in the Integrated Territorial Development Pact (PIST), submit it to the region that validates it with a regional resolution, rather it undertakes to co-finance the projects, and then we pass, in the form of DUPIM, to the Committee that, together with the Ministry, will evaluate the projects for financing. We have therefore also defined an iter. As far as the fund is concerned, it can certainly be allocated all the more, but for twenty-two years the law has not come to the House. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] The text of the last parliamentary term of 50 million did not come to this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have foreseen 20 million for 2019 and 30 million from 2020 to 2024: 170 million. Then let's refresh the memory a little bit. The first fund allocated to the smaller islands - I have to correct Senator De Siano - was in 2001 and was 51 million and not 100 million. What was the story? That with the 2007 Finance Act had been allocated 20 million since 2008 onwards: a pity that since 2009 the 20 million foreseen in the 2007 Finance Act have never been allocated and those of 2008 had to serve to implement and start the projects approved in the 2010 DUPIM. Too bad, however, that with the legislative actions of other majorities and other governments this fund - I can certify it because I have here the Document of Accounting - is equal to zero. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] When you promise so much, but then you don't keep your commitments, you don't see the results. I want to refer to what has been said. Senator Sudan said the government had no respect and did not do its duty. I believe that we must pay a moment's attention to the parliamentary procedure, because I think there is little point in examining the rules discussed in Parliament. There are the competent Commissions, the Ministries and the Accounting Office which, when examining a measure, rightly lay down conditions for enforcing the Constitution and the rules in force. Therefore, if we were forced - but rightly - to vary the text in some parts it was precisely thanks to the work done by the competent Commissions, which have signalled us some criticalities. I want to make a final note, also responding to what Senator Messina said by referring to the requests of the National Association of Common Minor Islands. ANCIM is an association that represents a part of the municipalities of the smaller islands, but it is - indeed - an association and cannot replace the power of the State. Some of the proposals were quite inadmissible. I want to give some examples. ANCIM requested that all the management of the fund be held by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and not by the Department of Regional Affairs and Self-Government, which contests the failure to implement the 2010 DUCIM. I just explained to you that there was no implementation of the DUCIM of 2010 because the fund was zero: it was not the Department that did not work, but it was the money promised by the past governments that were no longer there. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Another issue always concerns the allocation of funds (I speak with respect for the ANCIM, with which I have had the opportunity to interact several times). The planned departure was arranged not by us, but - as is apparent from article 1, paragraph 2, if you have the goodness to read it - by Articles 1, 16 and 22 of the law of 5 May 2009, n. 42, containing the delegation to the Government in the matter of fiscal federalism, in implementation of article 119 of the Constitution, which you have so much mentioned today in this Assembly. I have so much more to say. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Colleagues, I've always had respect for everyone, and I've always listened to everyone. If Senator Bellanova has no interest, I'm sorry, but I have the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u35	Senator Moronese, you still have two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u36	MORONESE (M5S). For the sake of my fellow Members, I would also like to refer to another issue. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] MALPEZZI (PD). That's a nice weather. MORONESE (M5S). I see that, unfortunately, the correctness is not of everyone in this House. BELLANOVA (PD). How dare you! MORONESE (M5S). Of course, more can and could be done. However, I would like to thank not only the Members who contributed - and I will also do so in the explanation of vote - and the two who are on my right and left, the rapporteur, Mr Mantero and Mr Briziarelli, but, above all, the Government, because they believed in this measure and in the willingness to give voice to the citizens, not making them feel like B-series citizens. In fact, people living in the smaller islands have been mentioned as B-series citizens. Well, it is not that they have not been considered, they have been totally ignored by the past governments. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have had the opportunity today, thanks to the Government of Change, to say to these citizens: you are there, we are there as a State, we want to help you and the draft framework law under consideration is a first step to meet your needs. I must say with all intellectual honesty (because I believed in this provision) that the result we achieved, thanks to those who really believed in it, was remarkable, despite the difficulties. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u37	I'm asking to speak for myself.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u38	Senator Bellanova, as a personal matter, will be able to intervene at the end of the session, as provided by the Rules of the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u39	BELLANOVA (PD). I would ask you to speak on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I see the meaning of your request has changed. You have the right to do so. BELLANOVA (PD). Mr President, I shall be very brief. I understand everything and also the fact that in this House there are nerves uncovered, because when you make a tombal condon for Ischia you then have to have the hair on your stomach to accuse someone who is not interested in the topic that is being addressed. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I would like to point out through you to the rapporteur that, as far as I am concerned and my group is concerned, we have followed this measure very closely in all the Commissions, even when you were walking around doing scenes outside of this House! [[Applause from the PD Group]] We have been on the Commissions and we have given our opinion and then invite the rapporteur, if she can, to respect my role! [[Protests from the M5S Group]] I was here and I followed this measure. You're very rude. [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Senator Bellanova keeps talking outside of the microphone. Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u40	Senator Bellanova, I gave you the floor for an intervention on the order of business and it was a personal intervention, so I will not give you back the floor at the end of the sitting. We've grasped the meaning of your intervention, as well as the senator... Mr Laus (PD). He offended her! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I didn't hear an offense, otherwise I would have intervened in defense of Senator Bellanova. [[Comments from the PD group]] Mr Laus (PD). We heard the offense! Say the word! Give Senator Bellanova a voice! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Laus, the senator has already intervened and has not been offended otherwise I would have intervened in defense of Senator Bellanova, absolutely. [[Senator Bellanova's protests outside the microphone. Comments of Senator Malpezzi]] Senator Bellanova, no one was allowed to offend you. I gave you the floor and you did your speech. I cannot allow you to continue to speak out of respect for the Senate's Rules of Procedure. It is not personal at all. [[Comments of Senator Bellanova]] We can continue with the examination of the measure. The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u41	Mr President, I am speaking quickly in response to the various speeches made by my fellow Members. The main point on which I think it is appropriate to insist, also because it is the one on which the greatest objections have come from my colleagues who have said in most cases that there are good intentions and good proposals in this draft law but that there are no covers, is that so far for the smaller islands have been allocated, as the President of the 13th Commission (and not rapporteur) Senator Moronese 51 million in 2001 and 20 million for 2008-2009, after which the fund was emptied. Now we are going to allocate 170 million over six years for the first structural and current interventions, and then 10 million euros a year from 2025 which will then remain structurally. But above all, in addition to the fact that there is a considerable budget, greater than has ever been so far, above all we make a budget for multiannual investment programming, setting clear objectives in Article 2 of the text that also go in the direction that Mr Floris pointed out, if I am not mistaken, as regards the objectives set by the European Union that are present (there is the regulatory reference in the Article). The objectives proposed by the European Union are set out in Article 2 and, on the basis of these objectives, appropriations can then be made. So let us not give, as has been done so far, one-off funds or to build DUCs which are then removed and, consequently, for a programming that starts, but which cannot be completed. We intervene in a structural and coherent way. With regard to the intervention of Senator Papatheu, on the term "minor islands," obviously there is no will to discriminate against the smaller islands by calling them in this way, but we have simply adapted to the way in which the Association of smaller islands has chosen to call itself, to the way in which the various legislative acts that have been launched up to now have addressed these small islands and also to the fact that there already exists a brand of products of the smaller islands, which is also intended to be promoted. We have therefore simply adapted to the state of affairs. We then reasoned on the proposal to establish an urban free zone, about which Senator Nastri spoke, but this proposal was contrary to the current provisions on the establishment of an urban free zone, because the establishment of the free zone is at the head of the MISE in agreement with the MEF and not only of the MEF as has been written in the proposal; we did not take into account the fact that there would be superimposed to an existing urban free zone, which is that of the islands of Linosa and Lampedusa, to which seven million euros are destined, and above all we thought that the financial coverage that was indicated was absolutely inadequate, especially if compared to that of Linosa and Lampedusa. It would therefore have been a rule with not significant impacts but with an administrative burden on the companies that were going to request it. I think I have responded in this way to the main points raised in the debate. In conclusion, I would like to say that there has been an absolute desire to bring these measures to this House and to accept all the acceptable proposals from the various groups that were going in the direction of improving the text. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u42	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u43	Mr President, I am also speaking to restore the right and proper calm and to congratulate the Senate, in particular the members of the Environment Commission on the quality of the work that has been done here and at this stage. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I believe that this draft framework law is the result, as other senators have already pointed out, including, in particular, Senator Messina, and I also believe that Senator Sudan, of the work that has been done by the oppositions and by the majority in the last parliamentary term, and alas, it was not possible to get her into the Chamber. The Government of Change, after five or six months, succeeded in this. I therefore believe that good will must be given to the Government when it has succeeded. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I do not think so, but I apologise on the part of the Government for the opposition to the impression that at some point in the course of the work there may have been the government's prevarication against Parliament. This has not been the case at all: there has only been the desire to complete this work in the shortest possible time, because it has actually been twenty-two years since 1996 and perhaps the parliamentary debate has been broad enough. Compared to this, I just want to give you an indication of the funds. Perhaps there will be the possibility, even in the near future, to expand them and to find resources that have not been found at the moment. There is certainly a fund available to the smaller islands and the lake islands until 2024, an excellent base of departure that can serve everyone. I would once again like to thank the entire Senate of the Republic for the work they have done so far. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u46	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. I understand the Government of Change, but generally in this House on important measures such as this one we are used to listening to the replies of ministers - which would be better - or otherwise of the Subsecretaries of the competent Ministry, who know the matter and talk about it. I did not understand why the Secretary for Relations with Parliament spoke. Then what does this reply produce? Perhaps the reopening of the debate in this House? I would therefore like to know, first of all, why the Undersecretary for relations with Parliament is speaking and not a representative of the Ministry of the Environment, and what is the meaning of this: is there a police station? Is the Undersecretary for the Environment unable to speak? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, Senator Marcucci, if I may. Mr Marcucci (PD). Excuse me, ma'am, but you can't. Let me finish. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Forgive me, I thought you were done and I wanted to provide answers to the questions you asked. Mr Marcucci (PD). And he thought badly, let me, he thought badly. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, are you kidding me? Mr Marcucci (PD). No, you're kidding, please. [[Protests from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u47	Actually, I'm chairing the session. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, but I do not need anyone's help in order to maintain order in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u48	Mr Marcucci (PD). We certainly recognize to the Undersecretary Santangelo the ability and deep knowledge of the Rules of Procedure, in particular as regards the legal number and the cards, but it seems to us a procedure at least abnormal, so I was asking you for an explanation, President.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u49	Senator Marcucci, according to the procedure a representative of the Government is expected to speak: the Undersecretary to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers is a representative of the Government, which we consider absolutely valid to conclude the process of examining the measure on the agenda. Moreover, listening to the reply of the Undersecretary Santangelo, I have only heard thanks to the various political groups for their cooperation on a measure that I believe is in everyone's interest. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Moreover, as has also been pointed out by the opposition colleagues, this is a measure which has seen the collaboration of all in the preparation of the final text.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u51	You have the right to do so. In any case, he could have intervened earlier.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u52	GAVA, State Secretary for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea. Mr President, there is no police station. There was an agreement between me and Undersecretary Santangelo since the other time, when I was not there, the work on the bill was carried out by my colleague, who asked me to speak. Therefore, do not seek any friction, because there is a broad collaboration. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u53	I would like to thank Mr Gava for a clarification which had already been given. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u54	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment No 1,100 and against Amendments Nos 1,101, 1,12, 1,22 and 1,102.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u55	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u56	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,100, tabled by Senator Nastri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Ferrazzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,101. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.12, tabled by Senator Papatheu and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.22, tabled by Senator Papatheu and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,102, tabled by Senator Messina Assuntela and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 1 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u57	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto complesso di Montelibretti, in the province of Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u58	We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u59	Mr President, I am naturally in favour of Amendment 2,108. I call for the withdrawal or conversion of amendment 2.103 to the agenda. I am against the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u60	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u61	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.100, tabled by Senator Mirabelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.101, tabled by Senator Sudan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 2.102, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.102, tabled by Senator Nastri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Aimi, do you accept the rapporteur's suggestion to turn amendment 2,103 into an agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u62	Yes, Mr President, I welcome the rapporteur's invitation and turn the amendment into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u63	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G2.103 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.104, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.105, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.106, tabled by Senator Messina Assuntela and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.107.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u66	SUDANO (PD). Mr President, I would like to point out a concrete example of the lack of understanding of the attitude of the Government and the rapporteur in having expressed a contrary opinion on this amendment. We audited the Harbour Office in the Commission. In this article and in this paragraph we foresee the valorization of the assets of the Region, which can be transferred to the municipalities of the islands. With this amendment, just at the request of the Harbour office, we anticipated the valorization and the identification of some properties to be given to the Forces of the order and to the Harbour office for the housings and for everything that must be done on a smaller island. The amendment is at zero cost and therefore I honestly do not understand the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u67	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.107, tabled by Senator Sudan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.108, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,109.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u70	PAPATHEU (FI-BP). Mr President, I too have called for the Commission to be aware of this, particularly because the draft law allowed us to do so, in order to give priority in some way (but of course it is not a matter of privileges) to people who are disadvantaged by the transfer for reasons of service on these islands. In this logic, the people that we have auditioned (those very few people that we have managed to audire) have manifested the opportunity - as my colleague Sudan has emphasized - to have at least the accommodations, in the conditions in which they themselves are, among other things, owners. Therefore, on matters related to bad weather, family hardship or the discomfort of schoolchildren, it would be appropriate for people transferred to the islands for reasons of service to benefit from the assignment of accommodation in their favour in different conditions than others. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u71	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.109, tabled by Senator Papatheu and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 2 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u72	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment 3.101 and against the other amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u73	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u74	Let us move on to Amendment 3,100, on which the 5th Commission, in the absence of reformulation, has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,100, tabled by Senator Papatheu and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,101, tabled by Senator Tiraboschi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,102, tabled by Senator Papatheu and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,103 tabled by Senator Messina Assuntela and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3104, tabled by Senator Nastri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 3 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u75	Mr President, I am against Amendments 4,100, 4,12 and 4,101.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u76	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u77	Let us move on to amendment 4,100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,100, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.12, tabled by Senator Tiraboschi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4101, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4101, tabled by Senator Messina Assuntela and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u80	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, Article 4 is the first to go a little bit further. The first three articles, on which we voted in favour, concern the subject matter, the purpose and the instruments of conciliation, and are articles, as we have already said in the course of this morning's debate and as we will reiterate at the time of the final explanation of vote, which see our favour, because the general principles, the aims and the instruments of conciliation to achieve those objectives seemed to us to be equal to the challenge. In this case, instead, we enter into the specific and the instruments, we enter into the central question, that is, how to ensure that what is stated becomes really an instrument for achieving the objectives, so we enter into the economic question. We shall vote against this article not only in defence of the draft law that we presented to the Commission, together with the other four draft laws, but also of the basic text, because the latter, the one supported by the Movimento 5 Stars, was talking about funding of 100 million, while now we are getting funding, as has already been said, from EUR 20 million to EUR 30 million per year until 2024, and then 10 million from 2025. It is not possible to use the argument that there were no funds before. Apart from the fact that the funds were cut by the government in 2010 and some of today's majority were there even then, when there was a cut in that funding, but today we are voting for a framework law and for it we must think of an adequate allocation. For these reasons, it is clear that we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u83	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, I would like to explain briefly and clearly the reasons why I and the Movimento 5 Star Group will vote in favour of this article. Article 4 provides for the amount of funds allocated to finance projects of the municipalities of the smaller islands which will have to comply with the objectives set out in Articles 1 and 2. However, we must point out, as has already been pointed out in the general discussion, that funds have already been allocated in the past for the development of the smaller islands, precisely by the 2001 Finance Act, the funds amounted to €51.6 million and then, in the 2007 Finance Act, a fund of €20 million was foreseen annually from 2008. Subsequently, since 2009 it has happened that the 20 million euros foreseen by the 2007 Finance Act have no longer been allocated, while those of 2008, through various legislative actions, were gradually removed from that fund and merged into others, until it became zero. In fact, some of the projects included in the DUCIM, the document containing the projects approved in 2010, were not started or concluded because to date that fund is zero. The draft law we are examining has taken into account this somewhat unfair procedure for citizens, namely that of allocating funds for one objective and then exploiting them for another, so in this draft law we have provided a fund with a capacity to cover both current and future projects. This brings the fund back to EUR 20 million for 2019 and EUR 30 million for the next five years, up to a total of EUR 170 million. Of course, it could be argued that we had initially requested more, but I would like to remind you of the fact that we did not have the opportunity in the last parliamentary term to bring this measure to the House, perhaps because there was no willingness to commit ourselves to funds: EUR 30 million, or rather EUR 170 million in six years, does not seem to me to be a few. I am therefore proud to be part of a majority that keeps its promises, to support a government that does not want the citizens of the smaller islands, who are experiencing enormous difficulties, to feel like a B-series citizen, and therefore I am voting in favour of the entire M5S Group on this article. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u84	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u85	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 5.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u86	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u87	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5,100, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u90	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to take the opportunity of an explanation of vote on Article 5, because amendments had been tabled on it which the rapporteur mentioned earlier, giving an opinion against it also in the light of the opinion expressed by the Budget Committee. The problem is that on this draft law (to which we look with favor and sympathy, because, as my fellow Members said in the general debate, it paves the way for greater attention to the smaller islands) there is an affair dating back to the previous legislature, as the President of the Commission has mentioned. At the time the Forza Italia Group had also competed with proposals made at the time by Senator D'Alì and which we took into account in our amending activity. It is a question of opening up an interest, an attention and I must not mention here the difficulties of these remote islands (transport, school, education and health). The problem is that the economic means, as was also said by President Moronese, are far inferior to what was hoped for. The amendments which the 5th Commission did not consider practicable were also intended to ensure, for example, a tax advantage for some companies. In these islands, for example, many are forest workers, working a few months with public money and then accessing that unemployment benefit: it would be better if these incentives were used for productive activities related to the realities of these islands. So there would be less welfare and encouragement to activities located in these territories and more stable. It would have been better, for example, to allocate part of the Irpef paid by residents to local economies, as we have proposed with one of these amendments. I say, because it remains in the proceedings of this House, that this is a law like the one adopted in the last parliamentary term on small municipalities, that we have all helped to vote: we will vote on this law because a signal is better than nothing, but, as with the law on small municipalities, expectations are created without economic means. Then it was said that a budget chapter was opened which could then have been fed in the future: we will see what will happen, in this case, to the law on the smaller islands if it was approved, moreover, with our contribution, which was positive also in the Commission, where we have carried out an amending activity and some points have been transposed. The economic aspect, however, could be better managed, even with existing resources. Leaving 30% of Irpef paid by island residents, at least as a guarantee of local funding, is an act of fiscal federalism, since there is a lot of talk about it, even if it is now a little less fashionable. These amendments remain as objectives that we will continue to pursue. The road of attention to the smaller islands has opened - before my colleagues De Siano and Floris have also spoken about more comprehensive aspects of islandity and the Constitution, to which we look carefully - but in many ways, this law is also a missed opportunity and our amendments would have enriched it. Therefore, while we remain in favour of Article 5 and the law as a whole, we believe that, in many respects, this is a missed opportunity that Parliament could face much better, albeit with limited means. We read figures of all kinds (but I have already spoken about the reform of mathematics yesterday and I do not repeat myself) and here we had to make some adjustments of a few million euros and, in some cases, leave resources produced in those realities to the local communities. We did not want to do so, and we regret that. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u91	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 5.0.100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.100, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 5.0.101, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.101, tabled by Senator Nastri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 5.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.2 tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 5.0.102, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.102, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 5.0.103, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.103, tabled by Senator Papatheu and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u92	Mr President, I will be telegraphic, calling this House to its attention. I have to say that, in this case, I see that the rapporteur essentially accepts the same amendment, so it is a question of existence, that is, of not being punishable: you have noticed in time what you were doing, imposing a further burden on the real estate tax burden, with the introduction on a taxable basis (ex ICI and IMU) of the purpose tax. You took it off because we told you. Since the Government on more than a few occasions, even recently, has said that the Government of change will not increase taxes (especially on the house), it seems to me that, if we are not careful in time, you increase taxes. We will see what you will do about the dry coupon: you have announced a change; we wait to see what you will be able to do. So I am silent and stop, because obviously I can only acknowledge the rapporteur's acceptance of our suggestions. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u93	Mr President, together with my colleagues, I had proposed flexibility for working relations by the municipalities, too, who had demonstrated a virtuous regime. This kind of prediction and this proposal were also the result of a judgment of the Constitutional Court, which gave it strength. Yet this measure, while not committing the budget in any way, has once again been rejected, to our great displeasure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u94	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u95	Mr President, before I give my opinion, I would like to make it clear, in reply to Senator Dal Mas, that Article 6 of this draft law gives us the opportunity to extend the objectives of the target tax already...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u96	At this stage, you should only express your views, Senator Mantero.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u97	Mr Mantero, rapporteur. I was giving opinions. However, I am in favour of the identical amendments 6,100 and 6,101 and against Amendments 6,102, 6,103, 6.0,100, 6.0,101 and 6.0,102, all of which are impervious.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u98	Mr President, I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u99	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6,100, which is identical to Amendment 6,101.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u102	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, it is repetitious if they are also brief. As Senator Dal Mas said during the illustration phase, we learned with concern about the increase: instead of giving money to the smaller islands, there was a risk of increasing a tax. There is a tax of purpose, established by a law of the end of 2006, when I believe there was the Prodi Government (which as far as taxes had a passion), and this tax of purpose, which can be launched for objectives such as public works, therefore important purposes, for the smaller islands could be doubled from 0.5 to one per thousand, going to fall on real estate. The rapporteur shared the amendment that we had tabled, and I acknowledge that, because the text had come to the House from the Commission with an increase in taxes, so we would not have given extra money to the islands nor allowed them to keep the money of the taxes they pay, tarassando those who are there, residents - let's forget who can have a luxury villa in some island - who already have difficulties. We shall therefore vote in favour of our amendment and we welcome the fact that the rapporteur has made a similar amendment, avoiding the risk of a law containing a potential increase in taxes, which would have represented a mockery for the residents of the smaller islands. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u103	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,100, tabled by the rapporteur, identical to amendment 6,101, tabled by Senator Dal Mas and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 6102, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.12.02, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.103, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.103, tabled by Senator Sudan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 6 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.0.100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.0.100, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.0.101, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.0.101, tabled by Senator Papatheu and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.0.102, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.0.102, tabled by Senator Papatheu and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 7, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u104	Mr President, I am against Amendments 7,100, 7,101, 7,102 and 7,103.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u105	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u106	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7,100, tabled by Senator Papatheu and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7,101, tabled by Senator Papatheu and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7102.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u109	PAPATHEU (FI-BP). Mr President, here again I would like to highlight and stigmatize an attitude which I have not understood during the whole course of the Commission's work, where there have been erected walls of non-listening, typical of this Government of change, for which change is intended to do as they see fit. This was the headline of the provision. For a better performance of the work, since with the hearings we were able to appreciate the efforts and problems that people in these islands suffer every day, I had asked, together with my colleagues, to hear the private in the associated forms, which are regularly recognized and registered in the various albums that exist in Italy to codify these private associations. This amendment, however, has also been dismissed because private individuals, of course, do not make any contribution with their experience, because they know everything else, those who are in charge. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u112	Mr Mantero, rapporteur. Mr President, to reply to the senator, as already mentioned in the Commission, the participation of private individuals and trade associations is included in the text and is guaranteed in Article 3, where there are instruments for consultation.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u113	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7102 tabled by Senator Papatheu and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 7.103, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of 7,103, presented by Senator Sudan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 8, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u114	Mr President, I naturally support Amendment 8,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u115	Mr President, the opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u116	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 8,100 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 8 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 9, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u117	Mr President, I also welcome Amendment No 9,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u118	Mr President, the opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u119	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 9,100, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 9.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u122	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, this explanation of vote applies to Article 9, but it also refers to Article 8, which was voted in favour of by our Group first, and will also apply to Article 10. These three articles see our vote in favour because they are reconnaissances: on the quantification of the historical, artistic, archaeological and monumental heritage; on cultural, musical, religious, historical and tourist events; on local productions. What is the problem that we find in this article 9 and that manifests itself in the plurality of the whole measure? That, once the census is done, there is no subsequent action for the valorization, promotion and allocation of resources or new powers to allow local communities to properly value what is recorded. Our vote will therefore be in favour, of course, within this overall reasoning.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u123	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 9 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 10, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u124	Mr President, I naturally support Amendments 10,100 and 10,101.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u125	Mr President, the opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u126	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 10,100, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 10,101, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u129	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, I was wrong and I would like to correct the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u132	MANTERO (M5S). I too, Mr President, would like to speak in order to keep to the acts that I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u133	The Presidency takes note of this. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 10 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 11, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views. (at 12 o'clock)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u134	Mr President, I am against Amendments 11,100, 11,101, 11,102, 11,103, 11,104 and 11,105.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u135	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u136	Let us move on to amendment 11,100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11,100, tabled by Senator De Poli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11,101, tabled by Senator Modena and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 11,102, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 11,103, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 11,103, tabled by Senator Papatheu and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 11,104, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 11,104, tabled by Senator Sudan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.105, tabled by Senator Modena and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 11.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u137	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u139	MODENA (FI-BP). Mr President, as the previous speaker rightly said, better work could have been done on the measure and a lot could have been added. Nevertheless, the measure certainly brings benefits to the smaller islands. I have looked carefully at the bill, because it concerns Lake Trasimeno and, in particular, the island Polvese and the island Maggiore and I am sure that, although it can be improved, the provision can bring advantages and positivity. To be emphasized - and it was a bit the sense of the amendments that were partly accepted and partly rejected by the majority - that when we talk about tourism and the integrated offer is important, I always think of my areas, along with the sport activity, naturally eco-friendly and non-polluting, because tourism is necessarily an integrated activity made up of typical products, certainly of sites and many other aspects, but we must also add the part related to sports activity. Of course, our Group will also vote in favour of this article, hoping that the legislation will be improved in the future, as requested by those who have spoken before me for my Group. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u140	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 12, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda to which the rapporteur and the representative of the Government are referred.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u141	Mr President, I am against Amendments Nos 12,100, 12,101, 12,103 and 12,104. I am, of course, in favour of Amendment 12,102. I am in favour of the G12,100 agenda, if the draftsman agrees to remove the premises and the second commitment from the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u142	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion. I welcome the G12.100 agenda, following the rapporteur's rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u143	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 12.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u144	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u146	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, as many of my previous colleagues have said, this is a just and necessary bill long awaited by those who live on the smaller islands. We have given our contribution, we will support it convincingly even in the awareness - as already emphasized - that in reality it would have been a really effective measure if there had not been a cut of the funds so significant from the Government and the consequent modifications of the rapporteur that has replaced in many essential points the verb "can" to the verb "must", thus making to lose a bit of cogency to the device, adding almost everywhere the formula of the financial invariance. We will support it, however, because, in its original form, as written by President Moronese, it would have been a really good measure, and precisely for this reason we decided to move from the building to the referring seat and then from the Commission to the Assembly, to try again, through the re-submission of amendments, to save the salvageable, also because, among other things, Forza Italia is carrying out the battle to return the insularity to the Constitution after in 2001 the reform of Title V had removed it and therefore, while recognizing its limits, we will support the provision. In detail, Article 12 deals with health and public health issues. The basic text contained a series of measures in the area of health services, including improving the functioning of the school system, which we have proposed today both as amendments and in the form of agendas, so that the Government will consider the possibility of substantially resuming the text in its original form, allowing the maintenance, enhancement, implementation of important health care facilities, adequate links with centres of excellence, the right to reimbursement of expenses incurred in order to undergo treatment at health facilities on land in the region of origin or not, the guarantee of the continuous presence of first aid doctors, nurses, equipment, in proportion, among other things, to the periods of the year (we know that in summer very often the smaller islands overlap and therefore there is a greater need for dedicated health care), the maintenance of the birth points present in the islands (absolutely necessary for women), and the means for the transfer of the newborn who needed special interventions in centres of advanced level, updating of doctors also aimed at telemedicine services. The measure - we repeat - is sacrosanct for us, but we will continue to ensure that good will is then added to the facts. If the amendments or agendas are not accepted, then we will have to abstain on the vote on Rule 12. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u147	Let us move on to amendment 12,100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12,100, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u148	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Liceo Scientifico (scientific high school) Niccolò Braucci di Caivano, in the province of Naples, who are attending our works. Thank you for your visit. I hope it will help your training. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u149	Let us move on to Amendment 12,101, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u150	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u152	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, this amendment is very similar to Amendment No 12,100, which has just been tabled by Senator Gallone, and it concerns one of the central issues that we wanted to put in this debate, and we have actually put it very strongly and with a certain decision in the Commission as well. The right to health is a fundamental right provided for in the Constitution and the attempt of this law is to make it change from formal right to substantive law and therefore is also payable by the citizens of the islands and therefore by all citizens, regardless of their geographical location. We reiterate the call to the majority to vote in favour, because deprecating citizens from such interventions means deprecating them from the essential services provided for in our Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u153	Let us move on to Amendment 12,101, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12,101, tabled by Senator Mirabelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 12,102, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 12,103.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u154	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u156	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, I am speaking to announce the withdrawal of amendment 12,103, because I had put a health issue in the Commission. At some point, in the Commission, during the debate on this law - which, as we have already said, is welcome, but it is a sort of manifest law, because the resources are scarce - under the new Rules of Procedure, for which it would have arrived in the Chamber from the drawing-up, in the face of the fact that many issues of common sense were not transposed, the prescribed number of Members asked for it to be moved to the referring seat and in fact today we are voting on the amendments and not, as we could have done, directly the article. I would like to say this to my colleagues, to the Presidents of the Commission and to all the groups that the new Rules of Procedure make legislative action more streamlined, enhancing the work of the Commissions and, in theory, leaving the House the task of voting only on articles, unless it is requested by one tenth of the members of the Senate or one fifth of the members of the Commission that the draft law be discussed by the Assembly. When common sense amendments are tabled in the Commission, it would be better for the rapporteur to give his favourable opinion before and not after, because otherwise he is forced to use a slightly longer procedure and, in the end, it takes longer. In this particular case, with Amendment 12,103 we asked that the reference to hospitals be replaced in the reorganization of the smaller islands with that to health facilities, because 99% of the islands that this bill deals with are no hospitals: they are small islands where at best there is an emergency room. It would seem only a lexical question, but, when hospital reorganization is envisaged, none of these islands - from the island of Giglio, the Tremiti and so on - have a hospital; there are only small sanitary facilities. The amendment proposed by the rapporteur, although using words other than those of the amendment at my first signature, accepts this suggestion. That is why I am announcing the withdrawal of the amendment, but it is clear to everyone that, when there are proposals of common sense in the Commission, it takes a little more flexibility, because this then allows a better and less use to be made of the possibilities offered by the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Zanda.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u157	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u159	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, I would just like to say that, as Senator Gasparri said, the rapporteur in the Commission has paid great attention and has therefore tabled a special amendment to ensure that this is done. However, I must point out that the request for the transfer of the measure from the place of establishment to the head office was made before the vote on Article 12. The will behind the request for a seat was another and on Article 12 there was the opportunity to work already in the contact person. I say this for the sake of clarity and knowledge of all. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u160	Amendment 12,103 is therefore withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 12,104, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12,104, tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Gallone, do you agree with the redrafting of the G12,100 agenda proposed by the rapporteur, with the renunciation of the second commitment of the device?
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u161	Yes, I agree, ma'am. As they say, rather than nothing, it is better rather.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u162	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u164	Mr Mantero, rapporteur. Mr President, I would just like to point out that, on the basis of my proposal for a reformulation, the premises should also be removed: the favourable opinion concerns only the first commitment of the device, excluding the premises and the second commitment from the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u165	Do you agree, Senator? GALLONE (FI-BP). Yes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government limited to the first commitment of the device, which concerns the strengthening of health care during summer periods, the agenda G12.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 12 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 13, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u166	Mr President, I am naturally in favour of Amendment 13,101 and against the remaining amendments. As far as the agenda is concerned, G13.100, I am in favour, provided that the premises are removed and that the commitment is reworded as follows: It commits the Government to assess the possibility of taking initiatives also regulatory to strengthen school structures and to make improvements in organisational and resource management. With this rewording and without the premises, the agenda may be accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u167	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur's view, also with regard to the agenda, that the premises and the rewording of the commitment are to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u168	Let us move on to Amendment 13,100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u169	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u171	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, the Democratic Party has approached this measure in a very constructive way. I'm not part of 13th. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Indeed, if we did not want to be interested in this issue, we would not have tabled - and this article is concerned with - Amendment 13,100, which I consider to be very measured, as regards measures to support the school system in small islands. In fact we know very well (but we also wanted to meet the Government) that the first, real, great action would have been to strengthen in an even stronger way the system of networking of all schools, in order to facilitate the online lessons and to ensure to these schools the most efficient connections. We know very well, in fact, that often one of these children's problems is not being able to follow the lessons, because the teacher cannot reach the island because of the conditions of time or because of diseases or because, sometimes, these children are in extremely restricted environments. In the last parliamentary term - I remind the House - with the National Plan Digital School we invested a billion euros, which was also intended for the innovation of the schools of the small islands, well aware that, despite the billion, which rightly concerned the national scale and therefore included also the schools located in disadvantaged areas, even more specific intervention was needed. However, in order to meet the work carried out by the Commission, the Democratic Party has tried to resubmit that amendment which, in fact, was already part of the original text (the President will be able to confirm it and the very first text is in the act); it provided for those measures which we reaffirm today with this amendment and which aim above all to safeguard the continuity of teaching. I regret to say that the continuity of teaching is not, on the other hand, safeguarded by the text you are presenting here today, because you say that those places in those areas must be assigned to those who live there. It's very right, perfect, but that means that, from your calculations, there are teachers who, for every single subject, for every single area, for every single discipline, reside in those territories. Now, you understand that this is not possible, because it means that we should find and have physics teachers, math teachers, English teachers, all resident there. It is right that these should take precedence; I do not question this principle, rather the bridegroom, but I say that it is not feasible. That is why we have proposed to add to your request, which we accepted from that point of view, a series of elements which you yourself set out in the first draft. These elements helped to ensure that teachers who were going to teach there could somehow have facilities. Maybe they are not teachers of role, but why not guarantee them, for example, a triennial, since in this case they make the specific choice to go and teach in places that are definitely not simple? We have listed all these facilities, precisely because we wanted to be able to build a kind of common fabric, since, even in this morning's speeches, it seems that everyone considers school a priority element, but then, when we get to the point, we do not find elements that can help. As a second option, we have provided for discounts on ticket costs for teachers on the spot, as is the case for resident citizens. At the same time, we wanted to emphasise a real problem: these schools often, on the basis of the current law, risk sizing. This means that they may no longer exist at any time, depending on the number of pupils, which may decrease. We then asked to ensure that these schools remained as stable homes. Perhaps an extra effort had to be made in this direction, Mr President and rapporteur, because in a constructive and non-ideological way we tried to make our contribution. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u172	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u174	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, our vote on this amendment will be against it, but not so much on the substance, because I agree with Senator Malpezzi that there is a need for more effective provision for school problems. However, it was not possible to include these measures in this measure, which is a framework law with which we give general guidelines. Surely the competent Ministry will be able to do so and then we can together further improve these measures. I would also like to clarify what has been said this morning. I did not say that my colleagues did not participate; indeed, all my colleagues from the Commission have contributed. I said that we should pay particular attention to the regulatory, parliamentary and procedural procedure, because some amendments, which may be valid in this respect, must at least provide for financial cover in order to be assessed. This amendment, for example, does not provide for any financial cover, so much so that an opinion contrary to it has been expressed by the Budget Commission in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u175	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13,100, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13,101.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u176	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u178	Mr Mantero, rapporteur. Mr President, for the sake of clarity, I would like to rephrase Amendment 13,101, replacing the words "six months" with the words "180 days." Therefore, the sentence to be inserted would be: "within 180 days of the date of entry into force of this Act."
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u179	There are no objections. This is actually a substantial change, but we can also consider it formal. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 13,101 (correct text), tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 13,102, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13,102, tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 13,103, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 13,103, tabled by Senator Sudan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Tiraboschi, being absent Senator Gallone, I ask you if you accept the proposal for reformulation put forward by the rapporteur. TIRABOCHI (FI-BP). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G13.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 13 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 14. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 15, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u180	Mr President, I am against Amendments Nos 15,100, 15.0,100 and 15.0,101.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u181	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u182	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.100, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Bossi tells us that the voting mechanism at his station did not work and the Presidency takes note of that. Let us move on to Amendment 15.0.100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u183	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u185	PAPATHEU (FI-BP). Mr President, I proposed this amendment in order to achieve optimal management of the integrated water system in the smaller islands, among other things, always providing that this favourable condition could be achieved with an already foreseen autonomy for the municipalities with a population of less than 1,000 inhabitants. In fact, in this case the optimal territorial area (ATO) forces these people to an integration that is in fact impossible because they are too large areas for the islands.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u186	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 15.0.100, tabled by Senator Papatheu and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 15.0.101, on which the 5th Commission, in the absence of reformulation, has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u187	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u189	SUDANO (PD). Mr President, I, like my colleague, Mrs Papatheu, have tabled a speech of the same tenor, first of all because we have been asked by the National Association of Common Minor Islands (ANCIM). We are aware of the difficulties facing the islands in relation to water resources and the costs that the islanders bear for water, which is a good thing for everyone and of which all citizens should be able to take advantage at no extra cost. Therefore, we only asked for a derogation from national law as regards the optimal territorial area, to give the individual municipalities of the islands the opportunity to manage the water, to choose the form of management on their island and to use the desalitors. Unfortunately, in the Commission, the rapporteur has also expressed his opposition to zero-cost amendments, which is why I continue to say that we cannot talk about a law that comes after twenty-two years as if nothing had been said in the past. In my opinion, people will assess what we are going to do in this parliamentary term, so it is useless to talk about the past; start you, Government of Change. I repeat that you have found the resources, you have found 22 billion in deficits and you could very well have found 50 million. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u190	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 15.0.101, tabled by Senator Sudan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 16, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u191	Mr President, I rise to announce that we are voting against Article 16, which deals with one of the fundamental issues for islands, namely distance and territorial continuity. You are as Sicilian as I am and you know the problems we are experiencing because of the lack of territorial continuity, which this Parliament has never dealt with, as it has not dealt with the rights of Italians and in past years has not made sure that the islanders were equal to the other Italian citizens. State contributions for the maritime transport of persons, waste and water were envisaged. It was also envisaged to use standard prices which referred to regional fuel prices, because we know that fuels in the smaller islands have a much higher cost. Here too, however, nothing has been done and, therefore, we can only vote against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u192	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u193	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u194	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u195	Let us move on to Amendment No 16,100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u196	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u198	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, as other Members have said, one of the weaknesses of the measure is the lack of attention to the transport issue. There are problems and I point out to the current Government its distraction also for the larger islands, not only for the smaller islands. Recently, the deadline for a tender, which had to be opened by the end of September (as it seems to me), has expired for a line of hydrofoils that connects Reggio Calabria to Messina. There has not been such a contest in which anyone could participate, having the titles, and now a lot of money is being spent on substitute services ordered by the railways. Therefore, there is distraction of the current Government also - I repeat - on issues that concern, in this case, not smaller islands. With Amendment No 16,100, at the first signature of Senator Papatheu, we have therefore requested an appropriation of 10 million for action to strengthen transport activities. It is clear, in fact, that the problem of the law is the means, as we have said several times, and that there is a series of inequalities. Even those who go to these smaller islands for work, such as in the case of a teacher, must pay full fees. There is room for small-scale intervention for the smaller islands and, therefore, we also insist on Amendment No 16,100, despite the opinion of the Budget Commission, because we have indicated cover for those 10 million and we stress the failure to solve the fundamental problems of transport. A few months ago it was ironic because the mayor of Capri had made a protest on behalf of the smaller islands. Everyone said, "What do they want in Capri?" They're fine, they're rich, there's tourism. Yes, but there are people on an island who go to be a nurse, a janitor, a teacher. Capri doesn't just get Americans on vacation. There are residents who have trouble traveling to the mainland to process practices or do something else. Therefore, we must look with more respect even when it is one of the largest of the smaller islands (to say in terms of contradiction) to ask for attention. The disadvantages of those who live and work in these places, in fact, are real and they are not just destinations of tourism. So we will insist on the allocation of transport resources.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u199	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,100, tabled by Senator Papatheu and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 16.101, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16.101, tabled by Senator Mirabelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.102, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 16.103, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16.103, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 16,104, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 16,104, tabled by Senator Sudan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 16.105, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16.105, tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.106, tabled by Senator De Poli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.107, tabled by Senator Cirinna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 16. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 16.0.100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 16.0.100, tabled by Senator Sudan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 16.0.101, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u200	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u201	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u202	PAPATHEU (FI-BP). Mr President, I will be very brief. This amendment aims to restore stability to the detached sections of the courts already present in the territories of the smaller islands of Elba, Ischia and Lipari, for which instead there is always an extension, otherwise renewed also with your decree thousand extensions in 2018. Once again, there is no guarantee of justice for the islanders and we do not understand why, since this measure could have stabilised - rather than always proceeding for extensions - the confirmation of the detached sections of the courts already present in the territories of these islands, guaranteeing equal justice for all and helping the islanders, who, once again, must always bear expenses for the defense, going out of their territory.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u203	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.0.101, tabled by Senator Papatheu and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 17, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to express their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u204	Mr President, I am against both Amendment 17,100 and Amendment 17,101.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u205	Mr President, I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u206	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 17,100, which is essentially identical to Amendment No 17,101, on which the 5th Commission, in the absence of reformulation, has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u207	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u208	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u209	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of the Government and the rapporteur to Amendment No 17,101, with which I and my fellow signatories simply ask that we be able to give the municipalities the opportunity to set up a committee to investigate two serious and repeated situations which happen very often in the small islands, linked to the subsidity, that is to say, the lowering of the seabed which very often creates problems at the level of the coast, and erosion. Mr President, the amendment does not call for intervention in this measure, nor for spending commitments, but for the municipalities - for example, Lipari, Ponza or Favignana - to be able to set up, within a year of the entry into force of the law, committees to study and understand the erotic damage caused and to be able to transmit to the regions requested in this regard. I am referring, for example, to the possibility of understanding whether, by placing artificial barriers and cliffs, you can save a piece of beach on which perhaps there is a bathing establishment, a hotel or a kiosk. I am referring - for example - to those positive interventions that are made in some municipalities of some regions with the regapment, the positioning of underground geotubes that make it possible to bring back the sand. If the municipalities can deepen this and transmit their requests to the Regions, probably not only can they protect the landscape better, but they can also ensure that some public activities and public establishments have the possibility to bring their own requests to the municipal and regional level. I therefore ask the Government and the rapporteur to review their opinion and to give a favourable opinion, if only because - I am sorry to be a little provocative - if you are able to explain the mess that you can do and do to Ischia with the tombale condon, you cannot fail to give the opportunity to a municipality to ask for the protection of the reparation or the study of why its coast has gone to be blessed. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Since 30,000 applications for sanatoria have been submitted reported from 1985 to 2003, with the tomb pardon will be accepted and houses will be built in Ischia banned and in territories where it is not possible to build. [[Applause from the PD Group]] By approving this amendment, you will not, however, wash your conscience because Ischia will be devastated and you will have done so. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u210	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u211	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u212	PAPATHEU (FI-BP). Mr President, for the same reasons I have just explained, I have asked for the establishment of a committee which, in the islands in question, is a due act, in my opinion. Moreover, it is at zero cost, because we have experts in all subjects in the Sicilian Region. It is intended to monitor in particular some islands which, as you all know, are of volcanic origin and should be given greater attention by us. I have asked for a committee to be set up to deal with the hydrogeological disruption, as well as the monitoring of volcanic islands.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u213	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u214	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u215	Mr Mantero, rapporteur. Mr President, in response to the speakers, I would like to point out that these two amendments were identical to the amendment 14.2 tabled in the Commission, which was in fact prevented by the adoption of the rapporteur's amendment and which was then incorporated into that amending proposal. Therefore, apart from the fact that the municipalities can already set up special committees, the recognition provided for in these two amendments is already included in the basic text, precisely because the wishes of colleagues expressed in the Commission have been accepted in the rewording of the rapporteur. [[Comments from Senator Bellanova.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u216	Link Bellanova, I don't read my lips well, but I can study.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u217	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u218	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u219	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, in addition to what the rapporteur has said, with reference to Ischia, I understand that Mrs Cirinna is trying to use wonderful words, just as I understand her political side, which has done nothing since Ischia was struck by the earthquake. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] There are citizens still on the street with a single family-owned house. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] FARAONE (PD). Stop it! PUGLIA (M5S). So, let me make it clear that Cyrinna (PD). Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, I would ask you not to interrupt my colleague Puglia. But I would also ask you, Senator Puglia, to stay on the subject if you can. Don't go completion off topic. Go ahead. PUGLIA (M5S). Of course. With regard to these two amendments, in addition to what the rapporteur has heard, I would like to point out that what has been done for Ischia has been done in a surgical way only in the area of the crater, which is very small - there are four houses! - and only for destroyed dwellings. So, you leave people on the street. CIRINNA' (PD). What surgery! PUGLIA (M5S). Shame on you! Shame on you! You've never done anything!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u220	Connect Cirinna, please. Senator Puglia, that's okay. Have a seat. I'll call you back to order. FARAONE (PD). You have to be ashamed of yourself! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, shame can't be a ping pong. [[Comments from the PD Group]] The President is able to quietly enforce each one's right to speak. We have also called Mr Puglia to order and, therefore, I see no cause for agitation. [[Senator De Siano points out that he wants to intervene.]] Senator, a colleague has already spoken for your group. You can speak at the next vote. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17,100, tabled by Senator Papatheu and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 17,101, tabled by Senator Cirinna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 17.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u221	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u222	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u223	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, I should like to point out that we are preparing to vote on Article 17 on hydrogeological disruption. It is clear that this is an issue of extraordinary importance for the whole territory. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u224	Colleagues, will you listen to Mr Ferrazzi, please?
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u225	[[Comments from Senator Bellanova.]] I can't hear you, Senator. He keeps imagining that I'm capable of reading his lips. It's not like that. Please, Senator Ferrazzi, continue. Mr Ferrazzi (PD). I was saying that we are talking about hydrogeological failure, an important issue both at national level and, of course, for the islands we are discussing this morning. I simply read what remains of the article which will be put to the vote on a subject of such extraordinary importance. The regions undertake a reconnaissance of the financial needs for the realization of the interventions in the matter of failure, compatible with the resources available in their budgets and the legislation in force. We are saying that what we have to do with existing legislation must, of course, also work according to this rule. So, we're saying the water is wet. Furthermore, we are reaffirming that there is no extra money to deal with the breakdown in the smaller islands. I should like to say a few words to the rapporteur and to my colleague Mr Moronese - as a senator and not as President of the Commission - that the basic text - and not just those which we have presented - called for action to ensure that the conditions for safety are restored immediately, and so on. Different is the text that we are preparing to vote on now in this House. In conclusion, it is clear that our vote can only be against.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u226	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 17. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 18, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u227	Mr President, I would like to refer to Article 18, which calls for the attention of the representatives of the Government to be paid to Amendment 18,100. The amending proposal deals with two important issues relating to the protection of the environment, but - above all - an emergency that affects all Italy and the major cities and, in particular, the small islands, especially during summer periods. I am referring to the disposal of waste, which has become a problem even in Rome, the capital of Italy, where - to say it from Roman - soon "monezza si se ste ste ste stesa", given how much it has accumulated in the streets. Imagine what could happen in August on a small island. Amendment 18,100 proposes two measures to help the public establishments in small islands. Firstly, it is proposed to reduce the amount of the waste tax for public establishments showing less production of undifferentiated waste. We are talking about the waste that goes to landfill and that is normally transported from the small islands to the mainland by ships. Therefore, the proposal is to grant relief to companies that reduce the production of undifferentiated waste. The second proposal contained in the amendment is to calculate the levy on waste as a percentage of the number of months of effective closure of public utilities during the year. For example, it is right that a kiosk on the beach in Ponza pays according to the opening period, since it is only open in June, July and August. Dear Senator Puglia, you have to do - yes - surgery and, in fact, it is right that an open undertaking only one month a year has to pay for the period in which it is dirty. However - I refer to surgery - how do you say that in Ischia you do a surgical operation when there are 30,000 questions of forgiveness to be answered, related to the candons of 1985 and 2003? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Your colleague is right to be so angry. You will devastate Ischia. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Are you the ones of honesty? But what honesty? The honesty of abusive houses? The honesty of who eats the territory? The honesty of those who care about the citizens who have respected the laws? That's your honesty. It's a piece of crap. [[Applause from the PD Group, which sings the choir "Shame! Shame! Shame!".]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u228	Colleagues, the story of shame we had solved before and it can't be a ping pong. If there's ping pong on shame all the time, we're gonna get out of here.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u229	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u230	Senator De essere, since you are from Ischia, I can bet a figure on what the subject of your speech will be.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u231	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u232	DE SIANO (FI-BP). Mr President, I am speaking with great calmness, without wishing to arouse enthusiasm or controversy from some or others. I would like to bring back the debate on the real issues of this issue. I'm Ischitan, I've been a local administrator in one of the municipalities on the island of Ischia. Therefore, for a matter of honesty, it is good to bring everything back to what is the real and objective reality of things, without doing excessive demagogy because with it, then, you can burn and none of us wants to burn. In Ischia - I said - compared to the condons of 1985, 1992 and 2003 there are several thousand practices of pardon pending, as there are, according to law, in many other parts of our country. Law No 47 of 1985, that of 1992 and that of 2003 are laws of the State, voted by Parliament and, therefore, are part of the legislative order of that State. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Rather than the demagogic intervention of Senator Cirinna, I share the intervention of Senator Puglia. [[Comments from the PD Group and Senator De Petris]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u233	Do we want to argue that he can share someone's intervention? MIRABELLI (PD). If you didn't interrupt, ma'am, nothing would happen. DE SIANO (FI-BP). I share this because, if we give for objectively valid the meaning of the Italian language, in the decree-law on emergencies, which was published a few weeks ago in the Official Journal, there is an article that concerns only and exclusively the three municipalities damaged by the earthquake of 26 November 2017 and that gives them the possibility - explaining how and then, when he comes to the Chamber, we will have the opportunity to discuss it - in an exclusive and limited way to rebuild the houses in the affected areas and just.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u234	[[Applause from the M5S and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u235	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u236	Mr President, I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 18.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u237	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u238	Let us move on to Amendment 18,100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 18.100, tabled by Senator Cirinna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 18.101, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 18.101, tabled by Senator Papatheu and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 18.102, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 18.102, tabled by Senator Sudan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 18.103, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 18.103, tabled by Senator Papatheu and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 18. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 18.0.100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 18.0.100, tabled by Senator Aimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 19, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u239	Mr President, I am against Amendments Nos 19,100 and 19,0,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u240	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u241	Having not been tabled on Rule 19 other amendments than the deletion of Rule 19,100, tabled by Senator Sudan and other Senators, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the maintenance of Rule 19. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 19.0.100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u242	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u243	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u244	MESSINA Assuntela (PD). Mr President, I would like to draw attention to this amendment, which had already been tabled in the Commission, of course, in a different form, which provides for the exclusive use of containers and packaging materials made from biodegradable raw materials, precisely to avoid the dispersion of packaging and packaging waste at sea. The original proposal, the one that we presented in the Commission, was largely shared, but then rejected because it provided for some tax reductions in favour of companies. For this reason, however, we have considered proposing such an initiative in this House, but this time without charge to the State and, therefore, giving the municipalities the possibility of providing a contribution for the costs incurred by companies for their purchase. That is why I call once again for attention to this amendment, which we are revisiting here in this House in relation to what was presented to the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u245	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.0.100, tabled by Senator Messina Assuntela and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 20, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u246	Mr President, I am against Amendment 20,100, as well as Amendment 20.0,100, which seeks to add an additional article after Article 20.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u247	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u248	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20,100, tabled by Senator Papatheu and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 20. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 20.0.100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 20.0.100, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 21 on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u249	Mr President, I am against Amendment 21,100, as well as Amendment 21,0,100, which seeks to include an additional article after Article 21.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u250	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u251	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 21,100, tabled by Senator Sudan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 21. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 21.0.100, on which the 5th Commission, in the absence of reformulation, has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 21.0.100, tabled by Senator Nastri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 22 on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u252	Mr President, I am against Amendment No 22,100 and Amendment No 22,0,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u253	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u254	Let us move on to Amendment No 22,100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 22,100, tabled by Senator Mirabelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 22. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 22.0.100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.0.100, tabled by Senator Nastri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 23.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u255	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u256	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u257	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, I am speaking to announce the abstention vote on this article on financial cover. We believe, in fact, in the light of what we have said in the course of our work in the Commission and in this House, that additional funds could be allocated and that we could find the cover, which we have also pointed out on time. Therefore, precisely to underline those reservations that do not lead us to change our attitude to the favorable vote on the bill, even if the means could be higher, we will abstain on Article 23, precisely to highlight the financial deficiency that accompanies a fair opening to the smaller islands. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u258	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u259	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u260	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, we are also abstaining on Rule 23. This is a manifest law. Beyond how the question of the smaller islands was covered before, this is a manifest law. There are no resources to implement policies, as many other colleagues have pointed out. It would be good if, beyond demagogy, we would take note of this and work together to build the real covers to implement this policy, otherwise it is just propaganda. We shall abstain on this article and of course vote in favour of the bill. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u261	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u262	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u263	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, I would like to add to the statements made by my fellow Members on this article that it is certainly a good thing that there has been an extension - and this must be acknowledged by the rapporteur and the majority forces - of the number of smaller islands, including those lagoons and lakes, because the central issue is not geographical positioning, but the prevention of which the communities living in them suffer. It is clear, however, that the combination of increasing the number of islands covered by this bill and reducing funding creates an amplification of the problem of financial cover. Consequently, our vote will also be abstaining.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u264	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 23. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 24. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). As the votes on the Article have been completed, I suspend the sitting until 4 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.24 p.m. and resumed at 16.03 p.m.) The session is resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u265	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u266	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u267	NASTERS (FdI). Mr President, the Brothers of Italy Group will vote in favour of the measure, not without critical assessments, as has already been widely demonstrated in the general debate this morning. We are convinced that, in view of the need to intervene in this legislature in favour of the island communities and the socio-economic activities connected with them, to legislate on such an important part of the country's territory would have required a much larger and greater period of time, and above all adequate financial resources, more substantial in order to definitively relaunch the economy, especially tourism, of the smaller islands. By the Government of change we would have expected a greater focus on the Italian tourist system and more attention for those who live in marginal areas of the territory, such as the island communities. Brothers of Italy has always considered the tourism economy of this country as the real engine and the real driving force behind growth and development. Then, instead of investing billions of euros for welfare interventions that will do nothing to increase the country, the Mezzogiorno and employment, it would have been much more logical to make serious development policies for tourism and invest in this sector fundamental for the economic and social growth of the smaller islands. On the other hand, the text under consideration, although characterised by good intentions on the part of the proposer, aimed at removing the obstacles which have so far not allowed the smaller islands to seize the opportunities for economic development, does not, in our view, systematically and definitively remove the social and economic difficulties which have been affecting them for years, i.e. they do not help to give a serious and concrete response to the needs of the inhabitants. As I said before, we would have expected more resources and instead, as I said in the general discussion, EUR 100 million has been halved to EUR 50 million and perhaps only in 2020 will we see something. The amendments adopted during the examination did not improve. In addition, we also strongly advocated the effective involvement of local communities, such as the fishermen's category, in decision making. There is no trace of this in the text. We would also have expected more courage and determination in tax measures, that is, we would have liked to see the government's vision. The economic crisis that is going through the whole of Italy has accentuated even more the delicate situation of the smaller islands and has also had serious repercussions aggravating conditions of intrinsic criticality such as those deriving from the insularity. It is thought of the islands of Ischia, Procida, Capri, Ponza, Isola del Giglio, Pantelleria and all other less known Italian islands, which represent a valuable resource from the cultural, tourist, economic point of view for Italy and especially for the entire Mediterranean. In all these islands the tourism sector, which very often represents - as I said before - the main source of profitability of those living there, has had several negative socio-economic repercussions, but above all from the employment point of view. So why not include within the text under discussion the proposal of the Fratelli d'Italia Group for the establishment within these territories of a productive free zone? The production free zone in the smaller islands is not to be considered a privilege, but it is the only remedy to compensate for the difficulties of an island where the production costs are much higher than in the rest of Italy due to the absence of infrastructure and the high cost especially of transport and energy. ( [[Brusio).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u268	I would ask colleagues to significantly lower the volume of the voice and allow Senator Nastri to continue his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u269	NASTERS (FdI). This recognition of the free zone would have made it possible to benefit from tax advantages such as the exemption of the application of value added tax, VAT, also on tourist services, increasing the competitiveness of the economic activity of the island, extending also the tourist season and, above all, also favoring the attraction of important investments in that territory. For the budgets of the island municipalities, which are so highly penalising, why has it not been possible to use the tied surplus quotas from the budget appropriations of the previous year? These are all measures that would have enriched the existing regulatory framework and, why not, given that added value to the measure, the actual impact of which on the existing territories concerned, once finally approved, risks not having those positive effects that are desirable. The creation of a new model of the economy of the island that aims to enhance the public-private union, starting from those that are the potentialities of the islands (such as tourism, culture, environment, agriculture and not least, indeed, also the green economy) is what we would have expected most from this measure. The synergies of those sectors are the driving force behind the revival of the smaller Italian islands which, unfortunately, today - it has to be said - are lagging behind in the development of their economy, especially with regard to the sustainable key. Instead, the original layout of this framework law is written old, having in mind only the public authorities, the State, the Regions and the Municipalities, but, above all, it increases the bureaucracy. Greater involvement of the most representative business organisations in all decision-making processes, first and foremost tourism, is what we would have expected. In short, there should have been a somewhat wider cooperation between institutions and businesses, between the public and the private sector, especially for the enhancement of small local productions and the creation of smart networks. Despite this, this measure somehow moves the waters a little. For far too long residents of the island communities and even entire parts of the economies of those territories have been waiting to resolve their problems. The vote of the Brothers of Italy Group is dictated above all by the evaluation of the re-presenting to the attention of Parliament the numerous problems still existing on the territories and the introduction of further, and this time more substantial, financial measures in favour of the smaller islands, also during this legislature. We will be careful and vigilant. This is our strong wish, given the opinion expressed by the various Commissions and, above all, the need for further action. For these reasons, and - I repeat - not without critical comments, I am nevertheless voting in favour of the Brothers of Italy Group. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u270	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u271	I would once again urge the House and colleagues to keep the volume of their voices as low as possible. It is not mandatory to listen, but it is mandatory to allow Members to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u272	Please, Senator De Petris, you have the floor. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today (and of course we are pleased about this) the path that had already been started in the last parliamentary term by examining various legislative proposals that all had the same purpose: to equip the so-called smaller islands with a regulatory dictation, that is, framework rules able to exploit first and foremost the great potential of this extraordinary heritage of our country. At the same time, we have tried to put in this framework rules that allow residents of those islands to live in accordance with the constitutional dictation, in particular the provisions of Article 3 of our Constitution. This means being able to enjoy dignified tools, services and living conditions and adequate access to primary services. This has always been the aim of the regulatory framework and the text we are about to vote on outlines its various aspects and gives indications. Someone has defined it and we might even in some way define it as a kind of manifest law. The posters are always important, but certainly this spirit must, in our opinion, be nouned and these framework rules must be put into much more effective instruments. See that it is not only a resource problem - and I will come back to the point - but also the ability to build a project and the programs to achieve it properly by implementing the regulatory framework outlined in this bill. We have certainly also appreciated the work carried out within the Commission, the environment, and the rapporteurs to make the text more adherent to the actual needs of those living in the smaller islands. We must certainly appreciate the references to the need to promote sustainable development, which is a reference to the circular economy and to the redevelopment of the tourist offer (he spoke of it now), to the enhancement of small local productions and of productions in agriculture and crafts. There has certainly been a great deal of debate both in the Commission and here in this House on one of the key issues: the provision of essential levels of health services. However, in agreeing to indicate the right of the inhabitants to access those services and therefore to benefit from welfare levels at least similar to those of the continent, we cannot remain silent about the scarcity of resources available. It is a matter of fact that weakens and tends to make the definition of the provision more and more truthful as the manifest law. Of course, some innovations that have been introduced in the area of representation, including institutional representation, in the State-City Conference and in the Unified Conference, are important. There are first signs of tax advantages: they are a signal, but certainly more could be done here too, for example by allowing for a greater chance of interlocking. Senator Floris has rightly mentioned the possibilities in the European context in his speech today: there is a need for further work on the part of the tax advantage, as has been done for many other foreign islands (I am thinking of the Canary Islands, the Azores and many others), which have been the subject of specific agreements with the European Union. Then we have a more general problem that concerns the smaller islands, but also the larger ones, Sardinia and Sicily. In particular, there is the problem of guaranteeing rights in Sardinia. Think of the question of territorial continuity and insularity, which we have dealt with many times in this House, but not solved. This measure is very similar to that adopted in the last parliamentary term on small municipalities. Even then, there was a very long path. It was a framework law and intent, which is certainly an important signal. I call on everyone: if we want to continue this work and not just to give a positive signal of attention to the islands, we must have the ability to implement it. We already have the opportunity of the budget law because, in addition to the few financial resources provided for in this draft law, we can begin to put in place a series of instruments that can give meaning and concreteness to this text. In declaring the favorable vote of the Senators of Free and Equal, I want to highlight another issue that must be dear to all of us and the Government. As the smaller islands are a great resource and represent a potential, so are the inner areas of our country, which are disadvantaged areas, which risk depopulation and have enormous service problems, but which have a great wealth. They are our history and our roots. They have a potential to invest in because there are increasingly worrying phenomena of demographic abandonment and decline of productive activities. This also has a heavy environmental impact. Think of the problems of failure that are often linked also to the abandonment of these nannies. The potential of these areas must therefore be exploited. If the bill that we are preparing to vote aims at the valorization of the great potentialities and the richness of the extraordinary patrimony constituted by the smaller islands and - as I said before - of the inner areas of our country, we must agree because it is in contrast with the choices that you are going to make with the decree-law on Genoa. I would like to remind you that Article 25 of the decree-law - regardless of what Senator Puglia said in his speech today - is clearly a pardon. He was the subject of lengthy discussions in the Senate when he spoke at the beginning of the legislature of the earthquake decree. It was not by chance that we were determined in a very different way here. Do not think that it is, as always, one-off because this is the country of the one-off and the many condones, one after the other. It's not that and never again. It has been a constant saying that the only way to enhance our heritage is to destroy it. I would like to highlight this because I hope that the draft law before us will represent a reversal of the trend with the rejection of Article 25. For all these reasons, we express our favorable vote with the politeness and prayer to really work together to implement the financial resources that are very scarce in this bill. So many good intentions that are at risk of causing such disappointment in the citizens. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u273	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u274	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u275	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, first of all, to reassure the whole of this House - particularly the senators and senators who, legitimately, have not followed the Commission's work - I would like to make it clear that there is no reference to any condoning in this draft law. Unfortunately, however, there is a very clear reference to the pardon within the decree-law on Genoa, a provision written by Minister Toninelli in two months. On the other hand, it is understandable: it has been written with the heart, as the Minister himself said, and the heart, of course, has its own times. To cut off the bull's head and this "questioncella," which is not secondary, since it has animated on several occasions this morning's discussion, and to understand what we are talking about - which is indirectly linked to the issue of the protection of the territory that we are discussing today - article 25 of the decree-law on Genoa speaks of the definition of the procedures of condoning it. Nor is it used - I address in particular to senators and senators of the Movimento 5 Star - the expression "building peace" in the same way as "tax peace" is explicitly spoken of pardon. The text of Article 25 states that the Municipalities define the requests for forgiveness relating to the buildings destroyed or damaged by the earthquake of 2017, presented pursuant to the laws of 1985, 1994 and 2003: the Municipalities ensure the conclusion of the procedures aimed at the examination of the aforementioned requests for forgiveness, within six months of the date of entry into force of the law. Finally, contributions are insured. We are talking, therefore, quite clearly, of a real and - and absolutely bizarre - pardon on these building allowances there is even the possibility, on the part of the citizens, of having up to 100% of the funding for the reconstruction of the abusive houses. That's what we're talking about. The Senator of the Movimento 5 Star Puglia, this morning, spoke of surgery: do you know how many applications for sanatoria presented to Ischia? There are 28,000 out of 64,000 inhabitants - in the face of surgery! It is an operation of condoning tombs of which sincerely there was absolutely no need and of which none of us - I hope - had any nostalgia. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In order to return more properly to the bill that we are talking about this morning, the one on the smaller islands, objectively within the Commission there has been a work of conciliation, President, especially at the beginning. There has been a great deal of work on the definition of the object and the purposes of the draft law: purposes also provided for by the European Union rules that correspond exactly to the constitutional rule that provides that citizens, even irrespective of their geographical location, must be able to enjoy the same substantive and not only formal rights; therefore, the laws must allow the overcoming of the gap. We have, therefore, welcomed the start of work in the Commission, but then, objectively, one thing has happened, which we do not even charge to the Commissioners: it is quite clear that at one point the Government has intervened, which has put the vetoes that have actually upset - and severely impoverished - the measure. Let me give just one example: we are talking about the rules on civil protection as well as Article 14 of the original text of Law No 497 adopted as the basic text - so the comparison I am making concerns not only the text presented by the Democratic Party, but also the text presented by the Movimento 5 Stars - well, in that basic text it was written that the competent regions ensure immediate action to restore the minimum safety conditions relating to hydrogeological planning but all this is in fact completely exceeded in the text proposed by the Commission because an amendment has deleted what has just been stated. More specifically, the original text provided for the establishment, in the municipalities of the islands referred to in Annex A (i.e. the smaller islands), in agreement with the territorially competent regions, of permanent civil protection garrisons, to which the mayor of the municipality concerned is responsible. This was what was established in the basic text, written and supported also by the Movimento 5 Stars. The text that we have examined this morning provides, instead, for the establishment of a special consultative body, with the participation of representatives of all public and private entities, and that the members of those bodies do not have any compensation, allowances, etc. It is quite clear that in the field of civil protection we are talking about fried air, because there is no need for a law to compose an advisory body led by the mayor within the municipality. On the contrary, there is a need for a law to provide, in a targeted manner, a real garrison of civil protection led by the mayor within the small islands. I am not going to re-examine the content of all the articles we have contested this morning concerning transport, health care, school and others. There is also the issue of development taxation, which has been objectively depowered. In the same way, there is the theme of the promotion of businesses with registered offices and operations within the islands. In fact, the repopulation of the islands and the permanence of the citizens within them are there when there is work. Therefore, a first form of support is that of development and accompanying taxation. [[Applause from the PD Group]] A law is needed that also allows targeted labour bargaining, according to the needs of the territory. Unfortunately, there is no mention of this. There is also no mention of the remodulation, which we have proposed with the surplus bound (Article 7). Unfortunately, there is no mention of the economic benefits for municipalities linked to water services and the waste cycle. With the amendments discussed this morning, we tried to put back what was laid down in the basic text, but - unfortunately - there was no way, because the majority voted for their rejection. The same could be said - this is very serious - for renewable energy. Mr President, the other fundamental issue which we are not fully satisfied with is the financing of the measures contained in the measure. I want to be clear and intellectually correct. As I said this morning, it was good that not only the marine islands but also the lake and lagoon islands were recognised in the repair work carried out by the rapporteur. In fact, the principle we have used is that, regardless of geographical location, the protection of communities living within the islands is valid. It is quite clear, however, that the increase in the number of islands in question has not been accompanied by a similar increase in funding. The basic text, in Table (a), provided for a total of EUR 100 million for the marine islands alone. On the other hand, the text in question has reached EUR 20 and EUR 30 million since 2020 and for four years, for the whole of the islands. This is a problem, because we are facing a real weakening of the municipalities in the exercise of services for the benefit of citizens. It's funding that wasn't there, that's all. This is, however, a draft framework law and, in order for such measures to be implemented, funding must be provided for. The last question we are asking, Mr President, is as follows. Some of the proposed amendments, which we wanted to propose again, of course by rewording them, in this House this morning received the negative opinion of the Budget Commission, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution. We wanted to retable them - fortunately the Presidency accepted them - because there was a dangerous precedent. The 5th Commission, the Budget Commission, has not only entered into its own substance, i.e. the sustainability of public finance balances, but in its opinions it has rewritten the articles in full and sent them to the Commission. Now, I wasn't there, but they tell me this never happened. We officially place it as an issue in this debate and ask the Presidency to monitor it. Mr President, in the light of all these arguments, we give this measure a six minus. This is something we wanted and believed in from the very beginning. For intellectual honesty we say that it was not born from scratch, because it is in continuity with the previous legislature, from which it has absorbed important indications. It is a measure that takes half a step forward. We expect the House to have the opportunity to take that step further, because the small islands really need Parliament's full support. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u276	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u277	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u278	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Mantero, Mr Moronese and Mr Gava and Mr Santangelo, with whom we have shared the path that has taken us to this House today in recent weeks. When, as a majority, together with the leaders of Romeo and Patuanelli, we chose, as the first measure to be examined for the 13th Commission, that on the smaller islands, the choice may have seemed to some of the other parties or those involved in the work rather unusual, especially for the League. I would like to thank all my colleagues who, in every Commission that has examined the measure, have worked in a spirit of participation and sharing this act. Well, this choice, in particular from the League, is proof that what Matteo Salvini said in the election campaign was not simply a slogan but was a commitment of government: Italy is saved all together, from North to South, from the Alps to Sicily. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] All of Italy is studded with many marine islands, lagoons, lakes; it may look like an oxymoron but it is precisely the living conditions of the Italians who live in the islands that are a bit of a bridge between the various realities of our country. It is then with this spirit and with this awareness that we have started an intense work, made of draft laws presented by several Groups, a series of hearings and a close confrontation with the Government. This path lasted a few weeks in this parliamentary term, but in reality it is the tip of the iceberg of a long journey, decades, as we have been reminded, made of great expectations and great disappointments, of commendable initiatives, but only today they come to be a concrete act, which will be approved by this House. All of us, at least once in our lives, have heard and perhaps used the expression "happy island" to refer to a place where it is worth living and probably, if we proposed this definition to an islander, would answer that, yes, its is a happy island, but surely it would say that it is also "an isolated island," Allow me. The Italian island is isolated in itself, greater or lesser, and not only materially, but also because, in fact, we remember marginally of these territories, in the laws and even in the emergency. Ischia has been mentioned several times: I do not want to reopen this morning's controversy, but that it has had to wait months to resolve the Commissioner's problem even after a seismic event tells her a lot about what consideration, from the legislative point of view, the islands have had so far from our Parliament. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] What we approve today is a framework law that talks about the daily life, about problems that any of us would have if we were to move to an island: health, education, transport, infrastructure, but also social and sport problems. It is a law that speaks of everyday life and the present, but it also lays the foundations for being able to talk about hope and the future. And it does so, be careful, as Mrs Pergreffi recalled in her speech, in respect of the communities, because it is a law that sets objectives and provides tools, leaving to the municipalities the choice of priorities to be pursued for the good of their citizens. I am therefore obliged to respond to the instrumental provocation of my colleague Papatheu: there are no larger or smaller islands in size, there are islands that have been defined as such, which even, if they wish, consider their size a wealth, so much so as to make them a brand of promotion. That is why we have maintained the definition that those islands have given themselves and we have not allowed ourselves to modify it by force. I would also like to respond to Senator Floris, telling him not to be like a fox with grapes, even if then of grapes and wines in our islands there are very good ones, from Passito di Pantelleria, to wines of Sant'Erasmo, Elba and Ischia. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It has been said that we always pursue Europe; well, I think it is a pride that Italy is the first nation of Europe to have a law dedicated to insularity and this could be a stimulus for other countries. The contribution of the League has not been limited to the choice of the subject, as it is not limited to the vote in favour that we will be voting in a moment; there has been a firm adherence to a path that has led us to deposit our bill, the Senate Act 757, which is fully reflected in the text that arrives in the Chamber, as amended in the Commission, and which bears the signature of all the Senators of the League which in their own constituency include marine islands, lagoons and lakes. And we claim, as Senator Arrigoni and Senator Pergreffi recalled, and also recognized Senator Ferrazzi, that ours is the first law that also takes into consideration the lagoon and lake islands. Obviously, we did not just increase the audience of subjects who can access the law; we wanted the law not to be of mere support or worse, of welfare, but to be able to enhance and develop the excellence of the islands. I have only three articles mentioned by my colleague Ferrazzi: Article 8, Article 9 and Article 10 of the law, which concern, respectively, the census of the historical, artistic, archaeological and monumental heritage, the census of cultural, musical, religious, historical and tourist events and, finally, the valorization of small local productions. Mr Ferrazzi believes that these articles are little more than formal recognition. It's not like that. It is clear to him that Article 9 stipulates that municipalities, regions and ministries must establish premium criteria for the events to which this article refers and, even more so, Article 10 speaks of small local productions to which the League dedicated the Senate Act 728 at the first signature of my colleague Vallardi, already incardinated in the Committee on Agriculture. This proves that ours is not a manifesto, but an overall vision of what can be done with Italian and island excellences. It could have been better. Sure, you can always do better. It has been said that better action could be taken on health care, schools and courts. It's all true. It can be done better now that something is there; now that a text will be fired by the Senate, it may be possible to improve it. Of course, I am obliged to note that the Democratic Party is particularly unlucky, because all the solutions to those problems that it has not been able to solve as a government force, have now found them sitting on the opposition benches. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S groups]] A lot could have been done, it's true, but with the risk of not doing any. We preferred to be on the concrete, also because it is a framework law and not a dream book. I conclude by noting that Ulysses, in order to arrive to Ithaca, has taken us ten years and, as other senators have reminded us, it has taken twenty-two years from the first law dedicated to the islands to be here today, it has taken thirty-two years since the municipalities of the smaller marine islands constituted in association, it has taken seventy years since the principles of the Constitution have entered into force: well, today the law on the islands enters into port. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u279	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u280	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u281	TIRABOCHI (FI-BP). Mr President, undersecretary Gava, ladies and gentlemen, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of the measure on the smaller islands, having shared in the Commission, between majority and opposition, objectives and aims, but above all the strategic assessments, which have allowed to define the perimeter within which to reason and regulate. The overall evaluations are broadly based on two points. The first point is the awareness of the competitive disadvantages of these territories, which are determined by geographical and territorial differences in the provision of services, which clearly make the quality of life of those who live on the islands more difficult than the quality of life of those who live on the peninsula. The second point, on the other hand, is surely their specificity and their territorial uniqueness, in the national panorama, represented by unique naturalistic and environmental aspects and the richness of local cultures and traditions, found in these territories. I would like to say to Senator Bellanova, who stressed with a certain amount of emphasis the Commission's efforts in the previous legislature, that then the Government could have adopted a measure, which today comes to this House thanks to shared work and a spirit of loyal collaboration between majority and opposition. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Coming to an examination a little more punctual than the measure, some criticism must certainly be made. Speaking as a senator who for the first time sees the emergence of a measure in the Commission: I would have expected a greater effort and a capacity - let me say so - to throw my heart beyond the obstacle. I am not just referring to resources, which have been severely reduced from EUR 100 million per year to EUR 20 million from 2019 to 2024, which then increase to EUR 30 million from 2020 onwards. It is not only a problem of financial endowment, as Senator De Petris also mentioned, but it is a problem of innovative planning. Reading the measure under consideration, I would have expected not a model of conventional and traditional governance, implemented by different levels of government, such as municipalities, regions, central state, associations and interest-bearing organisations, in this case the ANCIM, which share activities, responsibilities and resources, but a model of adaptive governance. A more flexible, innovative model of governance that would take advantage of the competitive disadvantages known to all of the opportunities and that had the courage to introduce also provisions by way of derogation, precisely in order to overcome these geographical, infrastructural gaps and in the provision of services that characterize the island territories. I am only saying this because I hope that, at the implementation stage of this measure, the Committee - and I thank the rapporteur, the President and all the members of the Commission for this - will be able to pay particular attention to the innovative design, in order to verify, precisely within the Committee itself, the quality rather than the quantity of expenditure. In fact, the resources, as I said, have been greatly reduced and I hope that no additional administrative and bureaucratic burdens will be introduced, which would be serious for the activities of the municipalities, which lack professionalism and skills, but more attention will be paid to the quality of the projects. And I come back to the words of Senator Briziarelli, who says that this Parliament for the first time has regulated an issue, that of insularity. In the implementation phase, consideration could be given to the design of this bill at European level, in order to share with the other Member States the modalities of defining additional costs, linked to these competitive disadvantages, especially in the fields of transport, energy supply, trade, maritime policies, the digital agenda, education and health, in short, in all that, with these scarce resources, cannot be financed at all. I would like to add a recommendation: I hope that the Committee will take stock of a synthesis work on these projects and bring them to the European Commission, where it will stimulate the very fast opening of a dossier that we can hold with the smaller islands, to be shared with those countries which have regions with island extensions. All these efforts must be aimed at increasing resources on the European Social Fund in the 2021-2027 programming, precisely in order to start seriously and systematically a policy of social and economic cohesion that clearly and objectively improves the quality of life and the well-being of the citizens who live in these territories. One final consideration. Efforts have been made but they are truly unimplementable: it is the first step of a perfectable path. We should involve the private world more closely, be it the expression of small and medium-sized enterprises, which value the craft and agricultural activities typical of the islands, and represented by more organized economic operators, willing to invest important resources in the recovery of the building and architectural heritage, to obtain valuable accommodation structures, both for the characteristics, and for the unique environment, to improve in an important way and increase the national tourist offer. In fact these islands are however a territorial product that can contribute in an important way to the increase of the profitability of the tourist industry of this country. I hope that these reflections will be taken into account in terms of recommendations and will not be interpreted as criticism. The Forza Italia Group, if these suggestions were to be collected, is ready to contribute constantly, even in the implementation phase. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u282	We extend a greeting and welcome to the students of the Institute of Higher Education "Don Geremia Piscopo" in Arzano, in the province of Naples, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u283	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u284	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u285	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, the draft law on which we are to express ourselves today has as its object and purpose the enhancement and protection of the smaller islands. I tried to do a research and saw that the first bill on this matter was filed in 1996, Act of Senate 1515. It is therefore at least twenty-two years that we have been trying to bring to Parliament's attention the critical issues and problems facing citizens of the so-called smaller islands on a daily basis. There is no doubt that these territories represent a valuable resource from the cultural, landscape, tourist and economic point of view for Italy and the whole Mediterranean. The island reality is also a fundamental attraction of our peninsula and it is important to highlight the opportunities for the economic development of marginal areas, linked to projects for the protection and enhancement of nature, which can have a positive impact on the ecosystem in front of us. The need to carry out a thorough analysis and subsequent revision of the discipline on the smaller islands is also dictated by economic and territorial needs. Precisely because of their particular location in the geographical and political context, the smaller islands need a different consideration than the ordinary regulations. The smaller islands must no longer be in a condition of subalternity compared to the rest of the national territory only because of their morphological characteristics. Today it is in fact so, because there are a number of problems and inefficiencies that are considered easy to solve on land, while for small islands they become insurmountable obstacles, which make daily life really complicated. It is the responsibility of the State to take responsibility for the removal of these obstacles. In the last parliamentary term, Parliament has really shown that it wants to deal with this situation. In fact, the Environment Commission, of which I was a member, began the examination of several draft laws of various parliamentary groups, including the one at the first signature of Senator Santangelo del Movimento 5 Stars, today Undersecretary for relations with Parliament. At the time, there had been a broad consensus among all the groups; but, despite the three years of work in the Commission, the measure, for reasons not yet known, did not arrive in this House. It was a missed opportunity. So, in order to avoid wasting more time and to avoid nullifying a job already started, I proposed, as President of the Environment Commission, to resume our work on this very subject, taking the text of Senator Santangelo and enriching it with what had been the work of the last legislature. Thus was born the Senate Act 497, at my first signature, then chosen by the rapporteur as the basic text in the Commission. To this bill have been added the texts of colleagues Briziarelli of the League, Ferrazzi of the Democratic Party, De Poli of Forza Italia and La Pietra of Brothers of Italy. Without rhetoric, but deeply convinced, I really want to thank everyone who has worked on this bill. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Mantero, for his careful, scrupulous and critical work, but always willing to receive proposals to improve the text. Thank you very much to the officials and Secretariat of the Environment Commission and to the officials of the Study Centre for assisting us and helping us very much. I would like to thank my fellow Members from the opposition for their willingness and maximum participation in the measure, at least in the first part. Then, as often happens, good will towards a measure has changed on the occasion of political exploitation and have come a little less to the initial will. But it is also the play of the parties between majority and opposition, so we take note of that. Thanks to the direct conduct of all the hearings held in the Commission and the publication on the Senate website of all the documents delivered, we have guaranteed maximum transparency and sharing with the citizens, who have been able to follow the proceedings. We have already had the opportunity to outline in general discussion the most important parts of the measure, first of all the objectives to which the projects of the Municipalities wishing to access the fund will have to refer, namely projects aimed at promoting good quality of life, with particular attention to constitutionally guaranteed essential services, aimed at health protection and social services, at promoting the implementation of ultra-wideband telecommunications services and sustainable mobility, at improving transport services in order to ensure territorial continuity and to promote tourism, at promoting and upgrading the tourism supply, the use and recovery of cultural goods and the improvement of local public services, at promoting and increasing the production of renewable energy sources, at reducing the production of waste, at promoting the proper management to reduce the costs of the service and making the system productive, at enhancing cultural, property and environmental goods, at the European Union, at setting up procedures for the establishment of free zones in the territory of the smaller islands, in compliance with the EU Regulation/16 of the European Parliament and the Council of 9 October 2013 establishing the Union Customs Code, providing for all the islands a way forward. This is just to mention some intended purposes. Another key aspect is the fund that we have managed to achieve for the implementation of these projects: EUR 20 million for 2019 and EUR 30 million from 2020 to 2024, for a total of EUR 170 million over six years. It should be remembered that the Fund for the smaller islands was already provided for in the 2007 budget, which provided for EUR 20 million annually from 2008 onwards. Too bad that since 2009 the 20 million have never been financed as foreseen in the 2007 Finance Act; but also those related to 2008, through legislative changes, have been gradually dried up. In fact, the projects included in the DUCIM approved in 2010 were not concluded or started, because to date that fund was zero. Without controversy but for the right information, given that many colleagues have compared this framework law on the smaller islands to that on the small municipalities (at least as far as the fund is concerned), I would like to point out that for the small municipalities 100 million euros were allocated in six years for 5,585 municipalities. We, on the other hand, are allocating EUR 170 million to some 50 municipalities. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] I think the difference is considerable. It is also worth remembering that those who represent the opposition today, in the last parliamentary term, were a majority: they were unable or rather, perhaps, did not want the measure to be brought to the Chamber. Mr President, this Government and this majority are demonstrating a substantial and radical change. With the approval of this law we shorten the distances between citizens and institutions, considering that the result we have arrived to is also the result of listening to the requests of the territory; we demonstrate that for the state there are no citizens of series B; we give a tangible signal investing important resources so that our islands can represent our best card for Europe and for the world. Finally, allow me to address the mayors of the municipalities of the smaller islands, lagoons and lakes: you have the honour and the burden of governing and administering these lands; I therefore ask you not to stick only to the good of this measure, but to go further. Activate to ensure that new synergies and forms of collaboration can arise, with the participation of citizens who love their land and are eager to take care of it, starting with good practices already underway. I really thank all those who honestly and convincedly contributed to this bill, I declare the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u286	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u287	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u288	SOLINAS (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to draw the Presidency's attention to the combined provisions of Rules 100 (8) and 103 of the Rules of Procedure, namely a merely formal correction of the text. The Commission has done a valuable job of cataloguing and inventorying all the smaller islands by dividing them between the marine islands and the lake and lagoon islands. Among the lake islands there was an island that lies in Sardinia and I wondered if it could be understood in the formal coordination, because it was part of the bill presented by the Group to which I belong. It is the island that has inside the church of San Sebastiano and is located on the artificial invasion of Is Barrocus. It was present in one of the law texts that was unified, and it was then expunged I don't know if it was merely a material error. So in the formal coordination I would like to ask whether it would be possible to reinsert the reference to this island, since it was present.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u289	I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u290	Mr President, at the moment I would say no, because, after carrying out checks, we have included all the islands that we have considered inhabited or that need funding and the exclusions have been skilfully carried out. If necessary, we could carry out new checks on the occasion of the passage to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u291	Mr President, the answer is negative because the islands to be included have been verified.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u292	Colleagues, from the elements present to the acts it seems to me that we are not talking about a material error, but about an amendment and so we are continuing. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 497, as a whole, in the amended text, with the following title: It is a framework law for the development of smaller marine, lagoon and lake islands. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B Applause.]] Consequently, the draft law no. 149, 757, 776 and 789.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u293	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u294	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u295	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, I rise to draw the attention of the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport to my initiative as an inspection union 3-00241, concerning the closure of an important viaduct, the only one that connects Molise and Abruzzo, called viaduct Sente. Since 13 September, traffic has been blocked on this viaduct. There is a need for extraordinary intervention by ANAS, since this viaduct is at the end of its technical life and therefore of its exercise. There is a need for consistent, significant economic action. But taking this opportunity, I would like to draw the attention of the Ministry, and of course of the Minister, in order to avoid for the future being caught by surprise by the technical life of an infrastructure, setting up the tradition of a certificate of the building or infrastructure that determines and periodically esteems, through a technical view, the resistance of the same. Now, for example, the normal life (I would be about to say: civilization) of entire populations on horseback of Abruzzo and Molise is prevented. This, of course, does not prevent me from also drawing the Minister's attention to another absurd affair that concerned some pylons and some rafts of viaducts of the Aielli agro, in correspondence of which even the Minister - personally and visually - declared that these viaducts, with those pylons of reference, would no longer be able to guarantee the highway exercise. I do not believe that a minister can afford statements of this fact, based on personal opinion, overtaking the Ministry, skills and offices. Both in the case of the viaduct Sente, where there is need for a intervention of the Ministry and in the case of the pylons of the A24-A25 highway there is then need of adequacy of conduct from the Ministry of Infrastructures, because through this infrastructure is guaranteed the vitality of the economy, the circulation of citizens, the transport of goods and also everything that concerns the life of the student community. That is why it is good for the Minister to document and undertake to find my request for an inspection union. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u296	Thank you, Senator D'Alfonso. The Presidency will submit its request.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u297	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u298	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u299	Mr Giacobbe (PD). Mr President, fellow senators and fellow senators, I rise to share some thoughts with you following an interview with the Australian national radio station ABC on the recent events of Riace. Yesterday morning I received a phone call from an Australian journalist from ABC and the first question he asked me is: why is Italy putting an end to the only integration experience we know about? I wonder: but from Australia, a country often wrongly cited by our ministers as an example of a tough spot against immigration, do they follow Riace's experience with interest? Surely they see it for what it really is: a positive experience of integration. I think that the problem of immigration in Italy does not concern the number of arrivals. The real problem is integration; the process of widespread integration that the mayor of Riace and the mayors of other countries around Italy are trying to implement. Of course, it is very important, indeed fundamental to respect the rules, including the procedures governing the projects of the Asylum and Refugee Protection System (SPRAR). But incorrect administrative procedures can be corrected and should not be considered an excuse to put an end to positive integration processes. If this were to happen, it would not only be difficult to start again, but above all it would be a great step backwards for social and civil coexistence in our country. As an Italian, I don't think that's what we all hope for. I understand resistances and fears: I have lived in a country where there were resistances and fears; accepting diversity is not easy. And here Australia teaches us a lot. Over 160 different nationalities live in harmony thanks to integration policies aimed at building a multicultural society that, since the mid-1970s, Australian governments have promoted at all levels. Why can't we do something like this in Italy? Mr President, I am going to conclude but, through you, I address Mr Salvini. May Minister Salvini come to Parliament to report on the experience of integration widespread in the municipality of Riace and in other Italian municipalities. Only by talking about it and comparing ourselves do I think that we can overcome resistances and fears and help build a better society. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u300	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u301	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u302	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I would like to ask your attention, that of the House and possibly also of the Government, to the situation of thousands of precarious researchers from the scientific institutions. Personally I have met several times those of the Center of Oncology of Aviano, but the situation is similar for other hundreds and hundreds of precarious professionals, of many Italian hospitals and institutes: in addition to the CRO of Aviano, I could mention the Carlo Besta Foundation, the Hospital De Bellis, the Gaslini Institute, and many others. They are highly qualified staff, with international degrees and experience, doctorates and specializations, who have been precarious for many years and have not yet received an answer. These people still today, at the end of this year, do not know whether they will still have their jobs on 1 January next year. Last year, with some amendments approved under the Stability Act, the previous government committed itself to a stabilisation of all these people through the so-called pyramid of research. However, this stabilization, which is very precarious as stabilization (forgive me for the word game), has never been activated, because the implementing decrees have never been approved. However, it was a very uncertain, very penalising solution to the limit of humiliation, both from the professional and from the pay point of view. It is clear to all that without the decisive contribution of these people in these institutions no research is done, prevention is not done and the excellence of the scientific research of our country is not guaranteed, especially in the field of cancer. Mr President, next week we will probably be called upon to approve, among others, the draft law establishing the cancer register. But how can this law be done if we do not guarantee the researchers certainty? These people, President, colleagues, do not ask for the income of citizenship; they simply ask for the dignity that comes from work and they ask not to suffer the humiliation of having to turn to private research or to have to leave our country, seek another job and thus burn a whole life dedicated to study and research. I trust in the attention of this House and in your attention, Mr President. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u303	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u304	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u305	BINETTI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am here to ask the answer to some of my questions. Firstly, I would like to mention the urgent question 3-00163, tabled on 3 August last, concerning a particular case, of extreme seriousness, of the Red Cross: what was possible to perceive as an abuse suffered by one of the great guidelines of the Red Cross. It seems to me - and I claim this today, after yesterday we approved the document establishing the Commission of Inquiry not only against feminicides, but also against violence against women - that this is also a form of violence. A double form of violence: the one suffered by the national inspector of the cross-rosses and the one suffered - let me say - by me, since I have been waiting for months for an answer on a topic that affects a predominantly female audience, such as all the cross-rosses. If we believe and want to stop the various forms of psychological, professional, wage and even, in this case, voluntary violence, then we must take the questions of women's protection seriously. There are two other questions, in writing, which I would like to stress and which deal with the same subject (it took little time to put an answer in writing): Questions 4-00173 and 4-00182, respectively, of 29 and 30 May 2018. Both have as object abuses and abuse suffered by children who have been removed from their families and placed in family houses, with frankly questionable diagnosis and with a description of the family context equally questionable, but with a concrete fact: in both cases they are people who do not see the parents (in one case the mother and in the other the father figure) simply because we are in a phase of stagnation regarding the rights of children. Let me insist on these aspects: women's rights and children's rights. Let the government respond. In both cases, the Ministry responsible, in my opinion, with a more peculiar nature is that of justice, but they may also have responded to the Minister of Health or that of the family. There are many interlocutors who revolve around these questions. Therefore, I am led to consider this absolute void and the silence of the Government as a sort of underestimation of the entire parliamentary value.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u306	The President will forward his requests to the Government, taking charge of his request.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u307	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-48.ana.u308	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 18 October, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 17.22.
