ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 909, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report and the general discussion took place, the reply of the representatives of the Government and the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to the articles of the decree-law.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u5	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u7	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, we will forever remember that of 14 August as one of the most dramatic days of recent history in Italy. It is unacceptable that such an important road artery has not been adequately controlled over time. But tears and mourning on the part of institutions turn into empty rhetoric if things do not change. And in order to change, the bridge must be rebuilt in the shortest possible time, that the life of the Genoese can return soon to normality, that the institutions intervene to protect and protect all those commercial activities and the enterprises that today live in a city literally cut in two. Just as it is important for the judiciary to do its job. A long chain of inefficiencies and negligence that must be ascertained and pursued. Speaking of this decree-law, one cannot even think about what happened in these days in so many regions because of the bad weather. Italy is a very fragile country, suffering from abuse, with too many public works without care, at risk of security. The security of the country must become the great theme of the coming years if we do not want to continue to count the tragedies and the victims each time. In order to return to the provision, we believe that it should be done sooner. Less announcements and more facts were needed, fewer promises and more immediate attention to concrete needs. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u8	Colleagues, I can't listen to Senator Steger.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u9	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Even today it is not clear who will have to rebuild and what will really be the role of Autostrade for Italy. In any case, what we are voting on today is a full text that contains many positive elements on issues related to the damage that the Genoese economy has suffered and will suffer in the coming months. In my view, Parliament has done a good job of enriching and making the text more targeted. If we want to, it is also proof that when Parliament is placed in a position to work, this leads to a substantial improvement in the measures. However, for our part there are many doubts that there is a whole series of articles in the provision that have nothing to do with the drama of the Morandi bridge, from the pardon of Ischia to the spreading of sludge. I really do not understand why a measure has not been taken to deal with this disaster and that is all. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]] This would have been much faster and the Commissioner could already have started his work. As regards Ischia, Minister Di Maio said that this was not a pardon but an accelerated procedure to respond to those citizens who have applied to regularise a building abuse. We believe, instead, that that norm will lead to the recognition of all the requests for regularization and, therefore, to a real pardon and this also because, for the precise will of the Government, the norms of 1985, those of the Craxi Government, the softest and the widest possible ones that have ever been introduced on the theme of the condones have been recalled. Despite strong doubts about these parts of the text, we cannot back down on a subject on which there must be the greatest national solidarity and that is why the Group for the Autonomies, out of a sense of responsibility towards Genoa, will vote in favour of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u10	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u12	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, three months have passed since the collapse of the Morandi Bridge with its deaths, suffering and the hundreds of displaced persons it has caused. In the face, and also in denial, of the roboating announcements that were made in those days and to follow, and above all of the promises that everything would be carried out quickly, we find ourselves today, instead, in front of a decree-law - that on Genoa to our examination - that not only is discussed after a long time but that contains a path for the reconstruction very entangled. Despite the extraordinary powers attributed to a Commissioner who has a large power of derogation, it is still very nebulous. I would like to focus briefly on the issue of derogations, because despite the changes that have been made, thanks also to the work of the oppositions to the House of Deputies, some aspects, the most disturbing ones, have virtually remained the same. Let us think, for example, of the reconstruction by way of derogation of all the existing rules, including those anti-mafia ones, that has been corrected, but certainly the worries and problems have not been solved, in the face of what unfortunately happens in our country with a certain regularity in the cases of emergency, that is the infiltrations and the corruption. The rules have not been corrected sufficiently, because in fact they can still be waived. What about the robust announcement of Minister Toninelli and other members of the majority on the matter of the revocation of the concession for Autostrade. I would like to remind you that just yesterday you rejected our amendment, which simply proposed that, in the face of a possible failure by Autostrade to pay off the resources for the reconstruction and demolition of the bridge, the withdrawal would take place. You have, of course, voted against and rejected this amendment as well. So, we are faced with so many announcements and continuous promises of fast times, but the reality is very different, with very complicated and confusing procedures, and we still can't understand. With regard to the announcements on the revocation, since Mr Toninelli is here, I would like to know what happened to the committee that was set up, because from this point of view we would like to have some elements. In return, however, the decree Genoa, with an operation to say the least questionable, has been loaded and has become an omnibus decree-law, to slip us of the shameful operations. How can we define the operation of the pardon in Ischia? Continue to insist that this is not a matter of pardon, but of giving answers to the citizens, but you know perfectly well what this is about and the proof was there yesterday. Let us think of the Senators of Forza Italia Campania, who have usually distinguished themselves in this House, even in the past legislatures, only and only to obtain pardon in Campania. Yesterday, after the mutiny of the vote on the other day, they all agreed to reject an amendment, which had been approved in the Commission with the aim of trying to reduce the damage, preventing the use of the 1985 pardon rules. This is not, therefore, a procedure for speeding up and giving answers to citizens, but it is a way of healing everything. This - I say it here - is only and only the antechamber to proceed to resolve the whole affair of the pardon in Campania, because it is obviously what interests Vice Prime Minister Di Maio: from Ischia to all Campania. We will see in a few months what will happen: my words will be prophetic and will be confirmed by the facts. The objective is absolutely that and the vote expressed yesterday by those senators is a clear confirmation of this. On the earthquake of Central Italy there is another pardon. It is a problem that we had already addressed in Decree-Law No. 55 of 2018 and on that there had been not only an agreement, but had been discussed for a long time and had rejected those attempts to proceed, again in this case, to an enlarged pardon. You did this operation and you discussed the Genoa decree while the country was coming down, with what happened in Veneto and Sicily. Our country needs to be treated and does not need other condones. A strategic investment plan, small and medium-sized projects, must be put in place to take care of our territory and to clean up and implement adaptation plans to cope with climate change. A census operation should be carried out to move and demolish all the houses that are in the areas at risk, and instead here it is promised that in case of natural calamity, earthquake, you will have the opportunity to access condones, to heal what could not be healed in any way. That's why you decided to insert the reference to the 1985 pardon: because it is the wider one, since all the other constraints, those important for our country, were all approved after. Do we want to talk about the other shameful rule that you have inserted? Article 41 on sludge. Even here you have allowed yourself to say that in this way there is finally a beginning of legislation, knowing perfectly well to say the false. It was a battle of the Movimento 5 Stars, made in Lombardy specifically, which led to a sentence of the TAR. You allow us to spread on agricultural land - let us talk about the land, the one that has to give us food, with all that it entails in terms of impact on the health of citizens - the sludge that has components - I am thinking about hydrocarbons - at levels greater than the permitted ones - indeed, they are not even allowed - for industrial sludge that must be disposed of in special landfills, and that should only be sent to incineration. Or even the parameters are greater than the lands that are used for the regeneration and resetting of the quarries. So, you did a serious operation, using the issue of Genoa and not seriously addressing the problems of Genoa. Behind the topic of Genoa, as a cover you have inserted norms that had nothing to do with this topic. I repeat, these are absolutely shameful rules, and there is no alibi for that. I repeat, there is no alibi. On the so-called decree-Law Genova you also wished to give up the contribution of the oppositions, because serious work on this measure, on the reconstruction and on the answers to be given to the citizens would certainly have produced the agreement of the whole Parliament. This was the job that all of us would be willing to do. But you wanted to do something else. The truth is only one and I say it in announcing the contrary vote of the Senators of Free and Equal: behind the mantra of change, behind the mantra of the Government of change, reality is only one, and I say it to the Senators of the Movimento 5 Stars: in reality this Government is changing you in depth. You are, one at a time, inexorably betraying all the commitments you had made, especially on the environmental front. Should I remind you of the TAP or other measures we have already considered in this House? This is the only truth: you are changing. You have changed your mind and behind the Government of Change there is only the wretched reality of a profound change in your Movement. The Italians will remind you of this sooner or later, not only in the ballot box, but in a criticism that you will not be able to shake off. [[Applause from the Mixed-Leu Groups and the Senators Collina, Cucca and Martelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u13	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u15	Ruspandini (FdI). Mr President, in the face of a real emergency, the patriots are there, they cannot fail to exist, and they therefore declare their vote in favour. The decree-law, however, is very disappointing and we say it in a constructive spirit: it is disappointing first of all for the timing. We will remember what the center-right government used in relation to the dramatic earthquake of the Eagle and how much the so-called Government of change takes to approve a decree-law: the first, the Government of center-right, did it in twelve hours, this gives birth a response after forty-five days of internal struggles. We had a quick reaction only on social networks, but in fact very disappointing for how it articulated and composed. However, it is not only disappointing because of this, but because unfortunately it responds to a sad liturgy that is typical of bad politics, let me say, that is the one to which we have been accustomed in recent years by the governments of the PD. Do you remember the IMU decree-law? We had to talk about abolishing the IMU, then that measure contained rules on the transfer of Banca d'Italia to private individuals, something very serious. Today that poisoned meatball is made up of the pardon to Ischia and the worrying modification of the legislation on sludge. With the increase of the permitted limits of the limitation of the requirement of hydrocarbons, in fact, we risk transforming our fields into open-air landfills. We are therefore very concerned about Made in Italy, about health, and we are also afraid to damage the image of our country resulting from the excellence of our products. We appreciated the approach of wanting to set up a national agency to govern the great criticalities of our country, increasingly under attack by atmospheric agents and climatic mutations that require a serious reflection that does not make us suffer the criticalities passively, responding from time to time as if it were the first. The hydrogeological failure and the structural problems we have with all the reinforced concrete constructions require a great operation to secure our country. This is essential, together with an appropriate campaign of training in environmental education. Minister Toninelli's circulars to municipal administrations are not enough to monitor our often dilapidated structures. So we are certainly willing to cooperate, but let us be very concerned about how these great issues will be addressed, which are the problems of our contemporary life today. Moreover, after the collapse of the Morandi bridge, one of the flags of Italian reconstruction, one of the symbols of economic boom, we, as I believe so many in this House, will have difficulty explaining what happened to the withdrawal of concessions to Autostrade company for Italy SpA. We have difficulty, after the theft authorized against the Italians, explaining why we do not talk about this after so many proclamations. You've taken away the concession from someone who cashes billions, but isn't he capable of maintenance and has killed innocent victims? Did you take it off or not? You don't get it. Did we see him? You didn't take it off. We shall therefore vote in favour of the provision for the sake of the Fatherland, but we are very angry and disappointed at the way you have composed it. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u18	RENZI (PD). Mr President, members of the Government, fellow senators, we shall vote against this decree-law by choice of majority. When in a country there are dramatic events like that of the bridge of Genoa, the alternatives that a government has are two. The first is to ask the opposition for a pact and to make an agreement with it. The second is to make the opposition the alibi of its inability. You, colleagues in the majority, in the hours immediately following the tragedy of the Morandi bridge have invaded the televisions, starting with the audio connection of Minister Toninelli from the vacation spot to TG1 at 13.30, and you have attributed responsibility to the political opponents, indicating two precise facts. The first is the motorway concession; the second is represented by the money of Autostrade for Italy to the parties. This was explained very well by Vice President Di Maio: the previous government met at night and in Parliament gave the concession to Autostrade for Italy. As often happens, Minister Di Maio has done something wrong. It was not at night, but it was during the day and - above all - it was not "the" previous government, but "a" previous government: the government that in 2008 wanted to grant the concession to Autostrade for Italy. Mr Di Maio would have been enough to turn to his left, to the table of the Council of Ministers, and to ask the other vice-president and colleague Matteo Salvini why he chose it. Yes, I say this because it remains in the proceedings of the Senate: the motorway concession was voted not by the PD, who did obstructionism against that act, but by the right and by a young Member, then a member of the Transport, Post and Telecommunications Commission, called Matteo Salvini. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Ask Maio's explanation, if he can explain if he can understand it! The second point concerns Autostrade's money for Italy. That morning I asked Misiani and Bonifazi (who are also two senators) if the Democratic Party had received money from Autostrade in the course of its experience, so also with the previous secretariats. They both explained to me: look, Matthew, it is incomprehensible why Di Maio is attacking us, because we did not take a lira. So I asked: But, then, perhaps the Leopolda, the associations, any of us will have taken funds from Autostrade? I was told, the next day, by the free and independent press, which should be thanked, that Autostrade's money for Italy had gone to the Northern League for the independence of Padania and not to PD. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The strategy of throwing mud at the opponents does not work and should not have been done in front of 43 dead. You have chosen the path of demagogy. After thirteen minutes from the funeral Mass, during the national mourning, the indecorous spokesman of the President of the Council of Ministers, Rocco Casalino, sent a text to all journalists, inviting them to value the whistles addressed to the senators of the PD. [[Applause from the PD Group]] On the day of national mourning the super-paid Prime Minister's spokesman tried to divide the national community. You have created the conditions to vote against, with your demagogic and absurd phrases. The fact that Senator Toninelli, the Minister, fortunately pro tempore, of the Republic, faced with the offer of a great Genoese, such as Renzo Piano, of a steel bridge project for Genoa, considered him negative will remain in the Senate. [[Applause from the PD Group]] If it weren't a tragedy, we'd all laugh here today. Colleagues, listen to him: Danilo Toninelli said no to a project by Renzo Piano. Danilo Toninelli! [[Applause from the PD Group]] The Vice-President of the Council of Ministers said that I do not want Autostrade to rebuild the bridge, but a public company. He spotted Fincantieri. But is it possible that no one in this House outside the Chamber and in the newspapers said that the last bridge - a railway bridge in South America - Fincantieri did so in the first half of the last century? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Dear Di Maio, Fincantieri makes ships, not bridges: ships! [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Errani]] I regret to say, Mr President, that the blackest page was written by the President-in-Office of the Council, the people's lawyer, or more correctly by the dealer lawyer (AISCAT). Count said they don't expect the times of justice, we can't wait for them. I understand why he did not come to the exam as an ordinary professor in September: because with such a phrase - they do not expect the times of justice - they also reject you under public law to the first examination. [[Applause from the PD Group]] How can a separation of powers be violated? How can foreign investment be called into question? It is not enough a post to make a revocation; it is not enough a photo opportunity to make an international summit; it is not enough a decree to abolish poverty: it takes seriousness, politics! [[Applause from the PD Group]] It takes a clear word in saying that it takes the Gronda to Genoa, it takes the Third pass to Genoa, it takes the money for the port to Genoa, it takes the Bisagno to Genoa. And you put Ischia in it! [[Applause from the PD Group.]] You didn't say a word about Genoa. I express solidarity with Deputy Minister Rixi because I know what he thinks: he is a political opponent, we fought him in the election campaign. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But the third pass was a proposal that everyone has always agreed to. We freed the resources with Delrio for the Third Pass. You, on the Third Pass, on the Grunda, have used a word that will return against you, like a perennial shame: "Favoletta" (Favoletta). [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Matrisciano]] A word for which you are still not worthy to speak of infrastructure in Genoa for what you have said. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] 10:08 a.m. (Following RENZI). Mr President, we would still have voted in favour of the measure if only there had been two articles. Article 41 on sludge - it has already been explained - has nothing to do with Genoa, and above all betrays a battle that the 5 Stars have always done. It is said that changing your mind is a sign of intelligence: the first months of this government show that you have traits of genius that we did not consider [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Rizzotti]] Because you're changing your mind about everything, even the mud that was your fight against my government. But the fundamental point is Article 25; it is said that it is not a pardon. I read the title of Article 25: "Defining the procedures for release" Abusivism kills, not living room environmentalism [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Abbusivism kills, and I say to Salvini, who voted against the Paris Agreement in the European Parliament, that the fight against climate change for sustainability is a battle that this government must do, and we will be at the side of the government, but we cannot continue to blame the living room environmentalism if we build abusive houses and die. [[Applause from the PD Group]] When you, dear friends of Forza Italia, vote in favour of the provision on the pardon desired by Di Maio, there is an incredible compromise, the most unexpected in the history of these first six months: Forza Italia and the Movimento 5 Stars, who in the name of the pardon to Ischia, cancel the word "honesty" and legality [[Applause from the PD Group]] giving a chance to those who live on abuse. I shall begin with the conclusion, Mr President. It is not a matter of parliamentary law. I say to the Movimento 5 Stars and the League that they have all the titles to change the members of the Commission who do not vote according to the party line. I have an opinion on this that may not be shared by others: there is an opportunity in this House to express itself as you believe, but we believe that it is your right to carry out your battles even by changing and modifying the members of the Commission who do not share the line. I am very serious and honest intellectually about this. The point is not to change a member of the Commission: the point is the genetic modification of what you were and what you have been fighting for in recent years. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You sounded the word "honesty" and you are carrying a pardon in the decree-law of Genoa. That is why, Mr President, with bitterness, we will vote against this measure, but we want to say it here: we are not your enemies; we are political opponents, we are not enemies. I called Virginia Rays after her acquittal and was criticized inside my party [[Applause from the PD Group]] , but I think it's a fact of civilization to be guaranteed, as we always are. We didn't get the same treatment, inverted parts, but I don't care. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I say that, when there is a political battle, we must recognize that we are not your enemies. Your enemy is not the strong powers (maybe there was some strong power: I see many weak thoughts and few strong powers) and it is not even the press: never seen so much ingratitude towards those who allowed you to make an electoral campaign without an contradictory (and I also mean gratitude). I've never seen such ingratitude. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Your enemy is not the PD and less than ever Forza Italia, we have seen it: your enemy is the reality.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u19	Finish it, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u20	RENZI (PD). It is reality and it is presenting you with the bill, because today, in front of what you have done, you have betrayed Genoa's expectations, you have betrayed your history. [[Live applause from the PD Group. A lot of congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u23	BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and members of the Government, I am about to make an explanation of vote and I could respond, even in a strong way, to the previous speech, but I have only ten minutes and I do not want to waste my time with anyone who announces that he wants to speak constructively and then his speech is only full of criticism. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Let's get to the point. We are about to vote on a measure that certainly does not give answers to the 43 victims of the great collapse of the Morandi Bridge; for those 43 innocent victims the answers are not there. However, we would have liked to have given the answers to the others yesterday, three months after the sad event; it was not possible to do so, because the 400 amendments of the opposition of the Democratic Party prevented us from doing so and we had to postpone the approval of this decree-law. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] In Genoa the world of business and work is in a serious state of discomfort for heavy and, in some cases, insurmountable difficulties. Citizens who have had to leave their homes are not yet able to reorganise their lives; urban communication routes cannot bear, at certain times of the day, the normal traffic connected to those who go to work or otherwise move for important reasons. Both west-facing and general, regional and extra-regional traffic lead to delays which also cause serious economic damage. We must thank - and we should all do so - the Municipality of Genoa and the Liguria Region for the important use of energy in creating, with great speed, concrete alternatives of city road communication, which prevent total collapse: a local action combined with the precious presence of the Government, through the Deputy Minister Edoardo Rixi [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Lomuti]] , that we all thank and that - I say this also with respect to an intervention that preceded me - through the Government has activated itself, even with concrete acts, immediately after the sad event (I don't know if the hours were twelve or maybe less). We've seen all these things, and we should all appreciate them. Unfortunately, there is still someone in Genoa - and someone else in this House - who continues to have a blind eye and has not seen what has happened and the positive actions of the local authorities and this Government in this regard. But the blinders, also in this House, Mr Renzi, have been exposed these days and you yourself have exposed them in the speech you have just made. The need to reduce the time, in words, is recognized by everyone, but only in words: in fact, the attitude of the Democratic Party has been clearly dilatory, with the obvious intention to postpone the provision to the Chamber of Deputies, and then send it back, modified, to the Senate, starting a ripple of those who do not want to do; but in Genoa, however, we are accustomed to the damage and not to making the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] In fact, my colleague Margiotta in the Commission has shocked me: he has repeatedly praised the importance of bicameralism to support the postponement of the decree-law to the House; to the face of consistency! Use the inventions and fantasies to forget the slap received by the Italians in the referendum. Mr Renzi, you had to stop making politics, but you are here today to pontificate, after losing the referendum, sitting on the benches of that Senate that you wanted to abolish! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] VOICE FROM THE L-SP-PSD'Az GROUP. Bravo! BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Where is consistency? Know that, because I imagine you have... MIRABELLI (PD). The pardon, it's about the pardon! BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). President, I'm talking to you. I don't understand why... Don't interrupt, colleagues. Please, Senator Bruzzone. BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Shortly, you will have to swallow another toad with the conversion of this decree-law: enjoy your appetite! And among the instruments used for the postponement of the decree - we had the reply this morning - the Grunda was mentioned. The Val Fontanabuona tunnel, the Pontremolese railway line, the Ventimiglia railway, the Albenga-Carcare-Predosa motorway, the Santa Margherita Ligure-Portofino road, the Rapallo port, the tunnel linking Val d'Aveto and Val Fontanabuona, the Albisola-Acqui Terme highway, the Val Varenna road, could also have been mentioned, Mr Renzi. But with what courage do you mention today the Grunda, which for us must be done - and we want it - but which is not there today, Mr Renzi, because the Democratic Party, which then had an extra S, decided and voted not to do it twice? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] In the City Council in Genoa, I am a direct witness, on March 2, 1992 and June 20, 1994, because of you, the Grunda... [[Comments from the PD Group.]] There was the PDS, which was a PD with an extra left. VOICES FROM THE L-SP-PSD'AZ GROUP. Bravo! Mr Laus (PD). Tell the story! What are you talking about? VALENT (PD). Talk to the presidency, Senator Bruzzone! BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Here it is (senator Bruzzone shows two typed sheets), ghe l'ò inta stacca and o tîo fêua, are the two resolutions of the City Council with which you proposed and voted not to make the Grunda, which would have been in use for over fifteen years! [[Protests from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u24	Senator Bruzzone, the cartels don't.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u25	BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). I apologise, Mr President, you are right, but they are not cartels, but resolutions of the Genoa City Council: for fifteen years the Grunda would have been there and perhaps we would have also lightened the traffic on the Morandi bridge. [[Comments from Senator Bellanova.]] FARAONE (PD). You're ruling! BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). I tell you more, because the story also applies to us: the mayor of that time was Merlo, but the deputy mayor was such Claudio Burlando who also had the delegation to the council of public works and the yards were already started for the Grunda, Bretella Voltri-Rivarolo and were contracted for 880 billion lire by the public society IRI-Italstat. [[Senator Laus' comments.]] RIPAMONTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). That's enough, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let me finish, ladies and gentlemen. You were not interrupted before. BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). President, I apologise, but I would like to move forward on these issues and I do not even care... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Go on. VALENT (PD). Talk to the presidency, Senator Bruzzone! BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Appalted 880 billion lire, your no cost 120 billion penalty to the companies that already worked for the reconstruction of the work: the yards were open. Liguria, on that occasion, lost 1,000 billion lire and today you come to talk about Gronda? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] It would be worth mentioning, President, another great Genoese in addition to Renzo Piano; a certain Gilberto Govi, who in one of his works said "Dear, Gigia" (in this case Democratic Party) if you de na face the earth 'and plates blood fans [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the PD Group]] We had in Genoa decades of administration of the Democratic Party, the city council member . No Gronda, Claudio Burlando, became Minister of Transport and for ten years he was president of the Liguria Region... MIRABELLI (PD). We're talking about a decree-law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Everyone thinks the way he wants. Let me finish. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] RIPAMONTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Have the courage to shut up for once! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Stop interrupting. End your speech, Senator Bruzzone. BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'm starting to finish. I think I still have time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You still have a minute and a half. BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). President, I'm a hunter, but I'm not interested in shooting at the Red Cross. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from the PD Group]] We don't want any lessons from anyone, let alone the Democratic Party and, fortunately, the Liguria, Savona, Genoa, La Spezia and Sarzana have been freed by the deleterious governments of the Democratic Party. The provision to our examination, for which I thank again the Government and our Genoese Edoardo Rixi, contains answers for the lightening of the procedures and for the reconstruction; answers to the citizens who have had to leave the houses, support to the enterprises of the area and to all those penalized, support to the port of Genoa and the connected activities. For these reasons, Mr President, our vote will be distant from those who, out of purely theatrical duty, have tried to stop the important act we are about to vote with a referral back to the House. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Therefore, colleagues, the vote of the Lega Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will be in favour. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations very much.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u26	We greet the Liceo scientifico statale (State Science High School) (Galileo Ferraris) in Turin. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u29	BIASOTTI (FI-BP). Mr President, Minister, allow me a warm reply to my friend Senator Bruzzone: we are interested in the present and the future, not in what happened twenty, thirty, forty or one hundred years ago. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] He says he doesn't shoot on the PD Red Cross. I, Minister, remind you that your boss, Grillo, said two days ago that he does not shoot on the Red Cross, talking about you, because it is completely useless. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] But let us come to the most important questions, Minister. My Group in the House abstained and we will do the same today for the sake of our city. So we have had so much benevolence. Minister, we have not opposed this. I would remind you that we had 309 votes in three hours yesterday. I know what it's like to oppose: it's a totally different thing. So much benevolence, Minister, but we cannot, out of duty and obligation to the Genoese, point out all the mistakes, the unpreparedness, the lies and the incompetence that your Government, and you in particular, showed in the case of the decree-law for Genoa. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] Dear Friends of the Movimento 5 Stars, I do not know why Senator Toninelli was appointed Minister, certainly not for his past work experience, because he has been the policeman and the insurer; but this does not scandalize us, we have seen worse. What scandalizes us, Minister, is that you do not study, you do not deepen. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] If you, instead of making statements about everything, had deepened the matter, you would not have made this series of nasty figures about which comedians speak and are now full of newspapers and televisions. That said, let us face the problem. You said - and so all the government - that you would make a special law on Genoa and in my memory public opinion has never witnessed a tragedy like that of Genoa. It has been three months, Minister, that all the news and televisions speak every day of Genoa: this is a story that really struck the feeling of the Italians, so we had the right to have a law only for Genoa. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] With all respect for the friends of Ischia and the earthquake of the Eagle, we had the right and you have the duty to make a law only for Genoa and we would have passed it all. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] Well, the first thing he did was come to Parliament, to the Mappamondo Hall, in front of the two Chambers together, and speak for an hour, of which fifty-five minutes against Autostrade, withdrawing all the concessions of Autostrade. Minister, I remind you that you have withdrawn 400 metres of motorways from the point of collapse of the bridge in West Genoa and another 400 metres of motorways from the point of collapse of the bridge in Cornigliano Genoa: in all 800 metres. If you don't know, the highway company runs 2,858 kilometers. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] MALLEGNI (FI-BP). But he doesn't know! BERNINI (FI-BP). Look at us! BIASOTTI (FI-BP). Toninelli, excuse me! You revoked 800 meters. Shame on you, do this revocation! BELLANOVA (PD). Toninelli, get out of the tunnel! BIASOTTI (FI-BP). And then I apologize, going back to the serious things, you wrote in the decree that the Society highways, being responsible for the infrastructure, has the obligation and the duty to spend and to rebuild the work. But I'm sorry, you're talking about the obligation to spend to rebuild the bridge, and you're not gonna let them do that? MALLEGNI (FI-BP). But he doesn't know! BIASOTTI (FI-BP). And then he expects the commissioner to clearly take the money somewhere else if he doesn't pay the highway company. But why didn't you let him do it to the Highway Society, which is the only one who did the project? Then you, Minister, could have revoked, condemned, shot, whatever you wanted. But give us this bridge! You're from the FI-BP group. Resign! Resign! Resign! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, stadium choirs are banned in this House. BIASOTTI (FI-BP). Mr. Minister, if you'd been thorough, you couldn't have given ignorant people to the Genoese who criticized you because you wanted to make a livable, passable and passable bridge. The bridge of Genoa is not that of Istanbul, which is a bridge in the city, as well as the old bridge in Florence. The Morandi Bridge is a highway viaduct 50 meters on the Polcevera, which exudes a year yes and the other also. [[Applause from Senator Bellanova.]] How do you say such crap? As far as the Commissioners are concerned, you have appointed five of them and after a week you have withdrawn three and two of them have resigned because of incompatibility. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] We have all asked to appoint the President of the Region, who had already been appointed by your Government... You're from the FI-BP group. But Minister! Mr. Minister, listen to us! Turn off your phone, shame! VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. You have to listen! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me! Senator Biasotti, you still have four and a half minutes. Go on. BIASOTTI (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to make up for lost time. The complaints were that the minister was playing with his cell phone instead of being a little careful. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] You're from the FI-BP group. Scumbag! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Now there is no conversation or debate between the Minister and Senator Biasotti. You continue, Senator. BIASOTTI (FI-BP). I would like to continue, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It has to go on. BIASOTTI (FI-BP). All the associations, from industrialists to traders, had identified Toti as the right Commissioner. But President Toti, one day yes and the other also, quarreled with Minister Toninelli; then, not to put Toti, they decided to put a non-Ligurian commissioner and they continued to make these statements. Then you can see that either they didn't find him or that this fanciful official didn't accept him and then they came back on a Genoese, such Gemme (wonderful person, whom I know), and then realized that Dr. Gemme was not compatible, because he worked in Fincantieri. We returned then, luckily, to Bucci; four attempts to get to the game of the goose. But let's get to the point. Mr. Minister, you said that you made the decree-law with your heart, an unappealable legal decree. Minister, I do not know if you know that your majority (because we in the minority have not beaten a nail) has made 77 amendments to your decree in the House of Deputies. Now, if I assign a job to a manager of mine and that makes me 77 mistakes, I think if I don't send him away, he's leaving. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Comments of Senator Bellanova]] So, Minister, 77 changes; thankfully, and thank Deputy Minister Rixi and Undersecretary Siri; we thank those who made these changes to you. But let's go to the content. You have always stated that you would try to help - because this was such a striking case that you should really have shown the efficiency of the 5 Stars, new to the Government - businesses. Now, you can see that you just can't help businesses, because for you businesses are stealing and mischief. Minister, the companies in Genoa did to the Chamber of Commerce... [[Comments from the M5S Group]] CROATTI (M5S). What are you talking about? BIASOTTI (FI-BP). A Chamber of Commerce has made a self-certification where 2,058 companies have self-declared, under criminal responsibility, that they have had 422 million damages (the companies of the orange zone). This decree-law provides for 10 and I believe we will not give them to one or two companies, but we will divide them. Mr President, I am talking to you who are listening to me, because the Minister is playing with his cell phone. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Comments from the PD Group]] Mr Laus (PD). Play with Italy! BIASOTTI (FI-BP). Allow me, 10 million makes 4.858 euros for each company. Mr. Minister, forget it. We're greedy if you keep those 10 million. Forget it, we don't want them! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] As far as road and infrastructure are concerned, Minister, you speak, but I advised you in August to come to Genoa. The Liguria is perhaps the only Region, together with Sicily, which still has two lane highways and which still has a single track; we are still in the nineteenth century. He's still got the truck. From Genoa to Milan, we're doing the truck, Minister, I don't know if you've ever done it: two lanes. [[Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u30	Let him speak, everyone has the right to say what he wants. Let him finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u31	BIASOTTI (FI-BP). It is the only city, perhaps in Europe, but certainly in Italy, where the highway enters the city, from north to south and from east to west, to transit us. And the Morandi Bridge is in the middle of this city. Minister, I have already told you at the question time: the Grunda, dear friends, is not a sloping piece of roof where rainwater rains us. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups. Ironic applause from Senator Marco Pellegrino]] It is an essential work! And, when you say you have to see the costs and benefits, Minister, there are no costs, because the Grunda is paid by the Highway Society, which has already been reimbursed with the increase in tickets and the extension of the concession. So to the State (5 Stars) it costs zero; they're just benefits. Study, Minister, please. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Let's move on. Mr. Minister, if you're talking about the TAV, you're gonna listen to the public. I shall conclude with a little poison: Mr Minister, let the public lose sight of it. I've minded my own business a little bit. Gasparri (FI-BP). Listen!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u32	You applied in 2010 in Lombardy and took 84 preferences. I say 84! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Protests from the M5S Group]] CASTALDI (M5S). You zero! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Biasotti! BIASOTTI (FI-BP). They won't let me talk. Then, not content, he candidated for the Municipality of Cream and took nine preferences. Nine! Minister, if you listen to the people, go home! [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups. Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u33	Senator, time is over, finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u34	CROATTI (M5S). Stop! BIASOTTI (FI-BP). I conclude by confirming my Group's abstention vote, certainly not because of the role of the Government but mainly because we hope, in the interest of the nation, that something will be done for my Liguria. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups. Congratulations. Warm protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u37	SANTILLO (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking as our colleagues from Forza Italia celebrate as if they had won the World Championship. [[Senator Mirabelli points out that he wants to intervene]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u38	We are in the process of explanation of vote. The order of business will be discussed later.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u39	SANTILLO (M5S). Please, silence and time, President. Mr Marcucci (PD). Can you call on the Minister to have a proper attitude? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But we're not talking! SANTILLO (M5S). Mr President, time is starting now, I hope. We've just attended some meetings... [[Vivacious protests from FI-BP and PD Groups]] President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. BELLANOVA (PD). Listen! MIRABELLI (PD). President, you're here to provoke! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If the Minister is not interested in listening, there is nothing we can do! [[Vivacious protests from FI-BP and PD Groups]] SANTILLO (M5S). Mr President, can you please ask for silence in this House? (The Senators of the PD and FI-BP Groups sing the choir: "Out! Get out! Out! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Mr Minister, I would ask you to pay attention to the explanations of vote. A lot of senators are saying you're always on the phone. I beg you to listen. I can't see from here what the Minister does. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] Let us continue with the explanation of vote. SANTILLO (M5S). Mr President, Mr Toninelli is in front of me and has never been on the phone. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u40	Go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u41	SANTILLO (M5S). We have seen electoral meetings rather than explanations of vote. Forza Italia, just now, has allowed herself to offend a Minister of the Republic literally forgetting to have mistaken a little girl for Mubarak's niece. [[Applause from the M5S Groups. Comments from FI-BP and PD Groups.]] That has been said. Senator Renzi recalled Senator Mario Monti, who was appointed Senator for life in the last parliamentary term and never present in the Chamber. Do you see him today? Yet we are talking about the decree-law on Genoa. He then spoke of poverty... [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u42	Please sit down and let us finish the explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u43	SANTILLO (M5S). We've heard of poverty. Someone here should ask, since he previously administered the country, how he managed to bring down 1,700,000 families and five million Italians under the poverty line. It is a good thing that the Government of Change proposes citizenship income. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u44	I beg you all to sit down! SANTILLO (M5S). Finally, there is someone who does not know how to read because Article 25 of the decree-law, and within the substance, is titled: "Defination of the procedures of pardon".
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u45	[[Applause from the M5S Group. Ironic applause and comments by the PD Group]] Mr Marcucci (PD). Bravo! It's a pardon! SANTILLO (M5S). It is clear that it concerns houses damaged by the earthquake that have pending requests for pardon. No new pardons! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Today we are voting in this House for a decree-law that should never have had any reason to exist. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Mr President, can we talk? [[Protests from the M5S Group at the address of the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u46	None of you have been interrupted. Let him finish!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u47	[[Comments from Senator Moronese.]] SANTILLO (M5S). I'm not saying that, because, of course, none of us would ever have wanted a tragedy to happen in our country... [[Comments of Senator Bellanova]] Mr. President, I can't talk. [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u48	That's not possible. You're forcing me to suspend the session.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u49	[[Some Senators of the M5S Group sing the choir: "Out! Outside, to the address of the Senators of the PD Group. Comments from the PD Group at the Minister's address.]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Condon! Condon! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's enough! Look, this morning, it looks like a kindergarten assembly. Please finish! Come on, finish your explanation of vote, Senator Santillo. SANTILLO (M5S). Mr. President, I'm just getting started. None of us would have wanted a tragedy such as that of Genoa or the seismic events of Central Italy and the island of Ischia to occur in our country. If those who preceded us, the competent [[Protests from the PD Group]] have implemented effective programmes for prevention, control, monitoring of infrastructure [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and in the case of earthquakes had put in place effective and timely interventions of security and post-seismal reconstruction, today we will not be here to vote on a measure... MALPEZZI (PD). To vote for a pardon! SANTILLO (M5S). ...which is precisely about emergencies that could and had to be avoided. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Last August 14 in Genoa the Morandi bridge collapsed, highlighting one of the biggest faults of the system of motorway concessions: the controls. As laid down in Article 14 of the Road Code, the powers and duties of the road-owner's body shall be exercised by the concessionaire in respect of the concession roads. These powers are maintenance, management and safety. Well, Mr President, the paradox is that those who had to be controlled were controlled by themselves. Thus the Highway Society for Italy argued that the Morandi Bridge was safe and in the meantime the previous Governments, in an exercise of embarrassing superficiality, carried out checks only by reading the papers. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Now, while we are also trying to remedy this indecency, Mr President, we have only one certainty: the Highway Company for Italy will not participate in the reconstructions of the bridge. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senators Bellanova and Malpezzi),]] Because if the elevator falls from the eighth floor with people in my house, I will never call back the company that has the maintenance and safety contract; that, at most, will pay me the compensation and the works for the restoration. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Together with that bridge, Mr President, the dreams and hopes, the everyday life and expectations of so many people, workers and companies have collapsed. Now the citizens of Genoa need to recover normality as soon as possible and the Government has found the resources to put in place. For this reason special powers have been entrusted to the commissioner for the reconstruction, fiscal measures have been studied that can give oxygen to these people and measures of support in favor of the damaged enterprises as consequence of the collapse and allocated extraordinary resources in order to face the criticalities of the transports and the roadway and for the optimization of the vehicular flows and the logistics of the port: the true nerve point of the city of Genoa. It is necessary, Mr President, to take urgent action to ensure that tragedies such as the one in Genoa are no longer repeated. Whoever preceded us, always the competent ones, give us an Italy that in the infrastructural field needs to be revised from top to bottom. Citizens must be sure that their roads and highways, bridges, viaducts, dams and tunnels are safe, because they pay for them and they use them. [[Comments of Senator Bellanova]] BITI (PD). The Minister is always on the phone! [[Protests from the PD Group. Call the president back.]] SANTILLO (M5S). It is thanks to this decree-law that the National Agency for the Safety of Railways and Road and Motorway Infrastructures will be set up... [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u50	I can't always have my eyes...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u51	[[Senator Biti's protests.]] Continue, Senator Santillo. SANTILLO (M5S). With this decree-law we set up the Agency for the Safety of Railways and Road and Motorway Infrastructures, the national computer archive of public works, as well as the dynamic monitoring system for infrastructure security. Now we're going to improve infrastructure security in our country. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Other countries, Mr President, have been boasting these kinds of instruments for years and it is paradoxical that a country like ours, a world leader in infrastructure construction, does not have the slightest control of its own infrastructure. It will complete our strategy by hiring 300 engineers and technicians, who will work for our safety. Mr President, those who preceded us, always the famous 'competents', seem to have only now discovered the scourge of building abuse. They noticed now, with Ischia. [[Comments of the PD Group.]] VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. You found out. VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. Condon! SANTILLO (M5S). The Movimento 5 Stars has always said this: not to intervene decisively to counter the phenomenon of building abuse causes tragedies, defigures the landscape... [[Comments of Senator Bellanova showing the text of the provision.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u52	Senator, put down the sign. Stop it. Put it down, I said, and sit down. Stop. Look, intolerance is a bad sign of parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u53	[[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Put down the sign. [[Repeated comments from Senator Bellanova.]] Continue, Senator Santillo. [[Comments from the PD Group. (Comments from Senator Malpezzi.]] Stop it. We don't need demonstrations. Everyone knows the text very well. Stop interrupting. Senator Malpezzi, sit down. Continue, Senator Santillo. SANTILLO (M5S). On 27 August 2017, an earthquake of a magnitude that in other countries would not do much damage, brought to its knees one of the most beautiful islands in Italy, and precisely the three municipalities of Casamicciola Terme, Lacco Ameno and Forio d'Ischia. An island that has made building abuse its own trademark, but whose citizens need not to be abandoned by the state. [[Protests from PD and FI-BP groups.]] Now, the absurd exploitation of what is contained in this measure concerning the island of Ischia finally finds the word "fine". There is no new building pardon in Ischia! [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from PD and FI-BP Groups.]] The 5 Star Movimento has always been against the condons. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] But Mr. Giuseppe, who has been practicing for twenty-five years and has a damaged building, has the right to know if he will have the contribution of reconstruction. Because, if you do not have the right, you will see the abuse taken down, which the previous governments have not done. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] MALPEZZI (PD). Condon! SANTILLO (M5S). We reiterate that the contribution will be subject to the acceptance of requests and will only affect uncondoned volumes, i.e. the already existing and absent part, and of course respecting the landscape, seismic and hydrogeological constraints. We believe that this is a good thing, ladies and gentlemen. For the Movimento 5 Stars the problems of building abusiveness and mitigation of hydrogeological risk resolve with ad hoc devices and not with emergencies. [[Protests from the PD Group. Protests from the M5S Group towards the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u54	Stop protesting. Stop it. I said it's not a good signal. Stop it. Stop it, Senator Malpezzi, sit down and stop.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u55	SANTILLO (M5S). Ischia didn't have a "B" earthquake. Let's remind everyone. Those who preceded us, Mr President, have left the citizens of Central Italy, waiting to be able to leave after the destruction caused by the earthquake 2016 and 2017. An emergency in the emergency and once again for an approximation and superficiality that a country like ours, at very high seismic risk, cannot be allowed. [[Comments from Senator Bellanova.]] We will intervene with this measure to regulate the small building discrepancies in order to accelerate the repair and reconstruction activities of the private buildings present in the municipalities affected by seismic events, so finally also the Center Italy will be able to restart. The examples of how emergencies have been managed in this country by those who preceded us, must make us reflect on the importance of prevention work, as well as the need to be always ready to deal with them, with all the tools that a Government must put in place to give timely and effective responses to citizens. The Italian territory, by its natural conformation, is very seismically vulnerable and hydrogeologically fragile. If fortunately we can count on world-class rescue teams, always ready to do their duty in often difficult conditions, it is not secondary to think that we are always ready, as a state, to intervene when it is necessary. With this measure we implement the concept of directing booth presided over by the President of the Council of Ministers, with the Ministers of Economics and Finance, Infrastructure and Transport, the environment, as well as the highest representatives of the Regions and Municipalities. Finally, with regard to the controversial subject of sewage sludge, the "competents" that preceded us were even able to turn an entirely ordinary affair into an emergency. We have to deal with reality. Sewage sludge exists; sewage sludge is and is in a huge quantity. Of course, Mr President, we are talking about sludge of urban origin, not industrial origin, thus containing hydrocarbons of natural origin, vegetable oils and fats and animals derived from the waste kitchens and canteens, but also from the processing of food products. On the other hand, the limits for hazardous substances contained in sludge will become very stringent, protecting the environment and public health. Mr Verducci (PD). You poison us by decree! It's a pardon! SANTILLO (M5S). Mr President, I should like to end by expressing the support of the Movimento 5 Star Group for this measure, the decree-law that should never have come to light in this House but that, in fact, in dealing with the facts, we have been forced to draw up to find the urgent answers that a State must guarantee to its citizens, especially those in difficulty. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Shame! Shame! Shame! Honesty! Honesty! Honesty!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u56	I refer to the roll-call vote... ( [[Some Senators of the FI-BP Group point out that they want to intervene. Lively protests from the PD Group.]] Stop! First we vote, then we talk about the order of business. ( [[Lively protests from FI-BP and PD groups.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). Are you scared, Toninelli? [[Mr Toninelli pointed out that he wanted to speak after the vote.]] Responding to what, Minister? I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). [[Lively protests from FI-BP and PD groups.]] I declare the result of the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot: [[Senators present 270 Senators voting 269 Majority 109 Favourites 167 Contrars 49 Absent 53]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups and from the government benches. Congratulations. Lively protests from FI-BP and PD groups. Minister Toninelli exults with his fist raised.]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Shame! Shame! Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 10:52 a.m. and resumed at 10:55 a.m.) Let's get back to work. [[Repeated comments from FI-BP and PD Groups.]] FARAONE (PD). You have to go! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Minister Toninelli, from my scranno I cannot see the attitude that you have, because there is a high bench that prevents me from doing so. I understand that you have managed not too well for a minister. [[Comments from FI-BP and PD Groups. Vivacious protests from the M5S Group]] I must take up certain attitudes which are not commendable and cannot be reproduced in this House. Therefore, I invite everyone to a correct attitude, with respect for the institutions. Everyone here must be allowed to say exactly what they want, but no one - I repeat, no one - is allowed to be uncommendable and disrespectful of the dignity of this House. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] You asked Senator Bernini to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u57	Mr President, I fully agree with your statement that everyone must speak when they have something to say. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] I still do not understand why I was not given the floor when I asked for it and a shameful demonstration of incivility was made by Minister Toninelli, who raised his fist during the vote. [[Applause from the FI-BP, PD and FdI groups]] The Minister has had a behavior that this House does not deserve to see. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] Mr President, forgive me, but we have repeatedly asked, during our explanations of vote, for the free democratic expression of a political thought proper to the minority, for the Government to listen to us, but this has not happened. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] VOICES FROM FI-BP AND PD CATEGORIES. Resignation, resignation, resignation! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, in doing so, you force me to suspend the session. This evidence of indiscipline is no honor to you. Discipline is there! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, you must stop these demonstrations. They don't honor you. Everyone has the right to speak and it is not right for others to interrupt. I find it frankly intolerable. Senator Bernini, finish your speech. BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, while we were talking about deaths, desperation and reconstruction, Mr Toninelli was typing on his mobile phone! [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] We've asked for your attention several times, but we haven't gotten it. We saw him chewing American gum and mocking us! [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] We do not ask him to share or understand what we are saying; we ask him to listen and give an example to the country and to the schoolchildren who were watching our work from the stands. [[Brusio.]] President, at least listen to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u58	I am trying to listen, if you will, to a disciplined Assembly. Senator Bernini, there are those who scream on the one hand and those on the other and so also his words get lost in the wind, because you feel absolutely nothing from here.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u59	Please, Senator Bernini, continue your intervention. BERNINI (FI-BP). We do not accept that the Movimento 5 Stars teaches the Forza Italia Group, which has always shown tolerance and fairness to others' arguments. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Mr Toninelli, don't ever come to this House again to raise your fists. We're not gonna let him! [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] [[Minister Lezzi calls for silence and a visit to the address of the FI-BP Group. Warm protests from FI-BP and PD groups at the government's address.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u60	Colleagues, please, I can't hear anything. There is so much confusion that, even if there were the possibility of accepting your requests, I could not do so because you make so much noise that I do not understand. TAVERNA (M5S). Suspend the session, ma'am. MOLES (FI-BP). Tell the minister to shut up. [[Lively protests from Senator Battistoni.]] MIRABELLI (PD). Ma'am, look what he's doing.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u63	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr. President, it's been a few months... [[Loud buzz in the House.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u64	Colleagues, if you continue so I suspend the session.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u65	[[Applause from the M5S Group]] LUPE (M5S). It's about time! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Everyone gets back to their place. Be patient, Senator Marcucci. I'd like to see everyone in their place. You're welcome. Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, we have been asking you very strongly for months to manage this House in a different way. All the time, especially when there is the presence of the Government, and in particular of the Ministers, we are witnessing provocative and offensive acts against Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] They came out with Minister Di Maio; they were very clear and expressive with Minister Salvini, who clearly challenged and mocked the Senate of the Republic. [[Applause from the PD Group]] These offensive acts have been there today, by Minister Toninelli, before, and by Minister Lezzi a few seconds ago, under her, despite his calls. This is the way in which the 5 Star League and Movimento Government considers the Senate of the Republic. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] You, Mr President, have never called him back, not once, despite these behaviors. It is not acceptable that the first to delegitimise Parliament should be the Executive of this country, a dangerous Executive. RENZI (PD). Stop with that phone. (At the address of Minister Lezzi.) Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I ask you: let us close today's sitting with dignity. [[Laughter from the M5S Group]] Of course, you laugh because that was your attitude. Unfortunately, a decree that should have healed, as far as possible, a huge... MALPEZZI (PD). Minister, leave that phone and listen. [[Protests from the PD Group.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I would ask you to end this sitting with dignity. This decree, on such a delicate subject, on such a profound human wound... RIPAMONTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). You voted against! Mr Marcucci (PD). ...has transformed under the name of the story of Genoa many shames of this country. I ask you to conclude with dignity, President. Close the session, please, with a minute of silence for the dead of Genoa. We regain the dignity of Parliament. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]] RIPAMONTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). We've already done it, freak! We did it the next day. Stop it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u68	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, it seems clear to me that the majority groups, both the Movimento 5 Stars and the League, have today shown great responsibility by listening silently to all the interventions of the opposition forces, without ever interrupting, including the speeches we are contesting on the subject. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] This is the sense of belonging to this House that the majority forces are demonstrating: to listen to the things that the oppositions say, even when they do not understand or dispute. [[Comments from the FI-BP Group]] Because this is the salt of democracy. Giro (FI-BP). It's not about a pipe. Patuanelli (M5S). That is clearly not the case for everyone. [[Comments from PD and FI-BP Groups. Call the president back.]] Today the Government has been present in this House to listen to everyone's contribution, because you listen with your ears and do not listen with your hands or with your eyes. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Protests from FI-BP and PD groups.]] MALPEZZI (PD). According to his cell phone, he listened. Patuanelli (M5S). I think a small gesture of jubilation from a minister who has committed so much of his summer to the problems of the collapse of the Morandi Bridge... [[Comments of Senator Gallone.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u69	Senator Gallone, stop it. I'll call you back! Patuanelli (M5S). A small gesture of jubilation, after the approval of a decree-law so important, this gives dignity to the city of Genoa.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u70	[[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Protests from FI-BP and PD groups.]] Mr Ferrari (PD). Yeah, three months later. Patuanelli (M5S). a gesture from the Minister, who has put great effort on us for a long period of summer, to bring to this House a measure that gives 800 million euros to the areas that in this country are affected by emergency, I think it is more than tolerable. He didn't do anything vulgar or inappropriate. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr. President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She spoke and no one interrupted her. [[Senator Marcucci's comments.]] Stop it, because you can't ask for respect and don't give it. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Continue, Senator Patuanelli. Patuanelli (M5S). Thank you, President. I believe that today perhaps one of the worst pages has appeared since the beginning of the 18th legislature. [[Ironic applause from the FI-BP Group. Comments from the PD Group.]] It is certainly not because of the attitude of the majority forces or of Minister Toninelli. [[Comments from FI-BP and PD Groups.]] I believe that President Marcucci is right about one thing: let us end this sitting with dignity. I can also associate myself with the request for a minute's silence for the victims of the collapse of the Morandi Bridge, with the awareness... Giro (FI-BP). You don't do it with your fist closed! [[Call the president back.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u71	The comments today are really inappropriate. I would have imagined that today was a very different day, because it weighs on all 43 dead, on all our consciences.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u72	[[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups and from the government benches. Ironic applause from Senator Giro.]] I really would have imagined a different Assembly. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups and from the government benches. Comments from the PD Group.]] Patuanelli (M5S). I shall conclude, Mr President, by simply saying that today the deaths of Genoa will certainly not be returned to their families, but the Government's commitment shows that one can be close to those families, to the productive and industrial fabric and to the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u73	He asked Minister Toninelli to speak. [[Comments from the PD Group. Some Senators of the FI-BP Group show mobile phones.]] The Minister now speaks in the silence of the House. Mr Marcucci (PD). And we're calling. MALPEZZI (PD). What's he talking about? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Did you dispute that? Now Minister Toninelli is speaking. Let him talk. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u74	Mr President, I would like to thank all Members, senators and members of the Government for working day and night these weeks... [[Protests from the PD Group.]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. You can't do that! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't feel anything. Minister Toninelli, continue. , Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. My speech is to bring my thanks to all the Members and senators who, during these weeks, working day and night, have allowed this House to approve a measure that allocates about EUR 300 million for Genoa and for the Genoese. [[Protests from the PD Group.]] Those who have rejoiced today have rejoiced for the citizens of Genoa. Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, you cannot do that now, because it has already been approved! Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. For the 266 families that have lost their homes and that in the next few days will have, thanks to this approval, money allocated to finally buy a new home. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Protests of Senators Malpezzi, Marcucci and Verducci.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u75	Minister, it's better than words.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u76	Mr Ferrari (PD). You need to talk about the order of business. He had to speak before approval: he cannot speak about the measure, the measure is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u77	The Minister has the right, according to the Rules of Procedure, to intervene whenever he wants; you, who are long-standing senators, know this rule well, and therefore I must not remind you of it. [[Repeated comments by Senators Bellanova, Ferrari, Malpezzi and Marcucci.]] Mr Verducci (PD). You can't do that, ma'am. He had to do it first! MALPEZZI (PD). Shame!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u78	Mr President, I do not even want to conclude a speech, I just say one thing: let us remember the many tragedies that have occurred in Italy, obviously different, how many years have been waiting to have a new home for those citizens who had lost a home; well, thanks to the approval of this decree-law, tomorrow 266 families, for the first time in history, after a tragic and unique event, such as that of Genoa, only forty-seven or forty-eight days after publication in the Official Journal and ninety days after such happening, will have a home and money. [[Repeated comments from the PD Group.]] D'ARIENZO (PD). Buffoon! Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. This is an extraordinary joy, which I think none of you, not even those who are raising their voices today... [[Live, repeat protests by Senators Bellanova, Verducci, and Malpezzi. Senator D'Arienzo whistles.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u79	Should I read the Rules of Procedure? Do you need to read it again? Ministers have the right to intervene whenever they wish and when they request it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u80	Mr Marcucci (PD). No, ma'am, no, it can't end. You can't say that! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. (To Senator Marcucci's address.) Read the Constitution again, as well as the Rules of Procedure, please me. Please, Minister, continue. [[Prolonged protests by Senators Malpezzi, Valente and Verducci.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). They have to read the Constitution! MALPEZZI (PD). They read it back, the Rules of Procedure! Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. Mr President, given the impossibility of speaking to this House and, above all, to the people of Genoa and to all the Italians outside, I conclude by saying not only that this Government has been close, from the first moment, to Genoa, to the whole city and to all the Genoese, with this decree-law that we have approved quickly, but that, as you know, in the budget maneuver Genoa will have allocated another 500 million. [[General protests from the PD Group.]] Joy and exultation - because we are talking about this - are due to the fact that the wonderful city of Genoa will rise again, because it has been on its knees for an event that should and could have been avoided and for which perhaps there is some responsibility in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , which has allowed highway companies to gain huge weight in their finances with rules for the sole benefit of private individuals. [[Very lively protests by Senators Marcucci, Valente and Verducci.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u81	Enough, Minister, thank you; that's okay.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u82	BELLANOVA (PD). President, let us hear, do not raise your voice only with us! Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. Allow me to conclude, please, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Minister. Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. I would like to thank this House once again, because there are people here who have made a real commitment and I will not reply to those who attacked me personally, because one has already been sent home by the Italians and the other in Liguria has simply left a referral to trial for crazy and flawed expenses. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Vibrating protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u83	Since Genoa is an open wound for all of us, I would like to welcome Senator Marcucci's invitation to respect a minute's silence in honor of the victims of the collapse of the Morandi Bridge. [[The President and the Assembly stand up and observe a minute's recollection, followed by general applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u84	The next item is the holding of questions. Questions 3-00010 and 3-00369 on the staff shortage of the State Police in the province of Trento will be answered first. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u85	Mr President, Senators, I respond jointly to the questions put by Senators Steger and Durnwalder and Senator Conzatti. The problem relating to the consistency of the staff of the public security offices of Rovereto and Riva del Garda and, more generally, the situation of the police offices of the Autonomous Province of Trento, has long been the subject of in-depth studies and evaluations by the provincial authorities of public security and ministerial offices, with a view to ensuring operational standards suitable for an effective control service of the territory. (at 11.14 a.m.) (Followed by Mr Molteni, Undersecretary of State for the Interior). In particular, the two Commissioners currently have 28 and 27 staff units respectively, with a shortage of around 20% compared to the planned workforce. In the light of this situation, the quaestor, since November 2017, had planned the territorial control service in the two municipalities, distant from each other about 023 kilometers, through management modules associated between the two Commissariats. However, even because of the distance between the two locations and the non-easy traffic conditions, such planning has not always made it possible to ensure the service with regular continuity. For these reasons, a new reorganization was necessary with which the quaestor remodelled the service of the flying team from seven o'clock in the morning to one o'clock in the night, instead of the usual midnight, with the possibility of performing extraordinary scheduled until two o'clock in the night. The reorganization thus arranged has ensured an adequate level of attention in the prevention and combating of illegality. In the awareness of having to cope with the recruitment of staff of the entire province of Trento, I note that the Department of Public Security has already started a plan of distribution of new units of personnel that previews the assignment of 19 agents to the police station of Trento, 11 of which already assigned in the last month of October and of ulterior 8 beginning from the month of February 2019. I can report that a project has already been drawn up for the revision of the staff of the police stations in the national context and for the definition of a new organisational model of the same and of the police stations of public security that will determine, also for Trento, an improvement of the operational capacity of the offices and a strengthening of the activities of control of the territory. This reorganisation will become operational from the beginning of 2019. As regards, in particular, the need to increase staff in the State Police, I would point out that on the basis of the rule of Article 7 of Decree-Law No 148 of 2017, the extraordinary recruitment of 292 student agents has already been authorised, which add to other 758 units, for which there had already been similar authorization in addition to the ordinary recruitment faculties, for a total of 1,050 units, already started at the frequency of the relevant training course to be subsequently assigned to the different offices since the first months of 2019. More generally, with reference to the need for an extraordinary strengthening of the police forces, I would point out that the draft budget law, approved by the Council of Ministers on 15 October, will allow the launch of an extraordinary recruitment plan, as well as new police officers, including magistrates and administrative staff, thanks to an appropriation of about 500 million euros. For the State Police, in addition to the recruitments that guarantee 100% of the staff turnover, we will also proceed to an extraordinary strengthening through a five-year recruitment plan that will allow the zeroing of staff shortages and the necessary generational replacement. The objective is to initiate, as said by the Interior Minister Matteo Salvini, from next year, the progressive recruitment of about 8,000 young people, men and women, into the Forces of Order. It is our intention, moreover, to expand the organic plants of the State Police that had been reduced to 106,000 units, compared to 317,000 previewed, by the law Madia and in this sense has been previewed, in the parliamentary conversion of the decree-law security and immigration, a delegation to the Government for the adoption of corrective legislative decrees for the revision of the roles of the staff of the Police Forces, with the redetermination of the organic endowments in reason of the updated requirements of functionality. Moreover, we did not follow up on the plan to reduce the security guards throughout the country, which had been proposed by the previous Government, because we are convinced that we must rather safeguard the specificities of the Police, strengthening the arrangements and not reducing them. The Government believes that the measures it has put in place and those that will take place in the coming months will allow to raise further the standards of operation and effectiveness of all the components of the security system, in the awareness that it is an essential element and precondition for the development and growth of our country. Finally, I would point out that the issue of certainty of punishment is one of the objectives of the contract for the Government of Change. We intend, in fact, to reverse the direction that had been taken over during the past parliamentary term and that aimed to achieve destructive effects both in procedural terms and inmates, to the total detriment of the safety of the community. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u88	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, we note the desire to remove these shortcomings from the Government. I hope that the Undersecretary and the Government will be able to make up for this in a very short time, the Undersecretary said by the beginning of 2019 and I hope that this will be the case because the municipalities concerned, especially those mentioned in my question, really do not need to suffer these deficiencies in the future. The security of the territory is a guarantee for the population and I take as good as you said, that you want to integrate the police forces not only in these, but also in other municipalities of Italy. I hope this will happen as soon as possible, because Alto Garda really needs it. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u91	CONZACTS (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Molteni, of course, for his reply. We were aware of these new arrivals of staff, but we must bear in mind that they are demands that go back a long time and therefore these new arrivals, that they go to compensate for a shortage of staff due to the early retirements and the lack of turnover, they only partially fill a deficiency that had gone before. Please note that there is a worsening of the security situation also in the Province of Trento. Not only that, but the Province of Trento hosts demonstrations on a national scale, from the Festival of Economics to the meeting of the Alps, and unfortunately it has extremist nuclei still quite active (the Minister of the Interior has had direct experience of the anarchist groups of the Municipality of Rovereto in particular) and therefore there is absolute need to have an organic up to the situation. Not only this, the situation is in fact degrading also because of the difficult economic conditions that make it necessary to observe more the jurisdiction currently present than the certainty of the penalty: all Italian citizens and not residing in our country ask to be able to live in a safe country, in which economic conditions allow everyone to live well and of course with a feeling of security up to the level of a democratic country, one of the founding countries of Europe.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u92	Following is the question 3-00017 on the teaching of the Catholic religion in the school. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u93	Mr President, Senator Granato, the teachers who teach Catholic religion, pursuant to Article 2 (3) of Legislative Decree No 62 of 2017, participate, for pupils who make use of this teaching, in the periodic and final evaluation activities in the class councils and, in the final ballot, in the resolution on the admission or non-admission of such pupils to the next class or state examination. In this resolution, the manifestation of the will of the teacher of the Catholic religion, if decisive, becomes a reasoned judgment written in the minutes. In this sense, nothing has been innovated by the aforementioned legislative decree; in fact, this procedure was already provided for in paragraph 2.7 of the understanding referred to in the decree of the President of the Republic No 751 of 16 December 1985. Moreover, it is clear from the normative dictation that all teachers who are entrusted with the teaching of the disciplines indicated in the decree of the President of the Republic n. 89 of 2009, in Article 5 (paragraphs 5 and 8), where it is specifically indicated, as a discipline of teaching, also the Catholic religion. It follows that, with reference to the presence of the professor of Catholic religion in the examination commissions, as specified in Article 8 (2) of the aforementioned legislative decree, a commission is set up in each school institution for the conduct of the final state examination of the first cycle of education. All the teachers of the class council, i.e. all the teachers of the third classes who carry out curricular teachings, including, therefore, the teachers in charge of teaching the Catholic religion and alternative activities to such teaching, any supporting teachers and teachers of musical instruments, are part of this commission. On the contrary, teachers carrying out activities in the field of the enhancement and enrichment of the training offer are not part of the examination committee. For the sake of completeness, paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 of Article 185 of the single text in the field of education, which specifically identified the teachers who were members of the examination committees, as well as the subjects under examination, were repealed at two successive stages. The decree of the President of the Republic n. 275 of 1999 repealed the first two paragraphs, relating to matters of examination, while the legislative decree n. 62 of 2017 also explicitly repealed the following paragraph 3, concerning the composition of the commission. As for the inclusion of the Catholic religion among the subjects of examination, it is represented that this discipline does not fall among the written tests, provided for in article 8, paragraph 4, letter c), of legislative decree no. 62 of 2017, and does not constitute the subject of the interview, expected that the same, pursuant to article 8, paragraph 5, of the aforementioned decree, is directed to evaluate the knowledge described in the final profile of the student, according to the current national indications for the curriculum for the school of childhood and the first cycle of education, issued by ministerial decree no. 254 of 2012. To the final profile of the student defined in the above indications, in fact, it does not affix the teaching of the Catholic religion. In this sense, the provision of Article 309 of the Single Text on Education, according to which, instead of votes and examinations, the evaluation of the teaching of the Catholic religion is not expressed in votes and is not subject to specific testing and evaluation in the examination. Finally, it is represented that, precisely in the perspective indicated by the Senator, Legislative Decree No. 62 of 2017 equated the role of the teacher of alternative activities to that of the teacher of Catholic religion, both in the area of evaluative competences within the class council, and in the modalities of participation in the commissions of the final examination of the first cycle of education.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u96	GRANATO (M5S). Mr President, in thanking the Undersecretary for the exhaustiveness of the reply, which seems to me to defy any interpretational doubt, I must point out, however, that the implementation of Legislative Decree No 62 of 2017 of the Gentiloni Government has opened a path that can create unequal treatment between the examiners in the various institutions. We have found that the teachers of the Catholic religion are present in the examination committees and have a specific role in the evaluation of the pupils who make use of this teaching, albeit with different modes of expression compared to other teachers. But, if there is no urgent need to adopt unambiguous and practical provisions on alternative teaching to Catholic Religion Time, children who do not use religious time will risk being evaluated in the first-cycle examinations by a class council with one less member, and this certainly goes down with the principle of equal opportunities in Article 3 of the Constitution. It is good, therefore, that clarity has been made in this regard, both with regard to the substance and with regard to the existence or repeal of regulatory provisions. I cannot say the same about the accentuation of the gap created by the previous PD-led government concerning the alternative hour to the teaching of the Catholic religion; gap that must now be filled as soon as possible because, in the light of the implementation of the decree Faithful and the persistence of the same, it risks generating unequal treatment within schools. I would like to stress in this regard that the complexity of the current civil society requires the political decision-maker to be aware of the existing situation. We are faced with an arduous challenge, that of modernity, to face up to which it is indispensable to structure a model of public school that is democratic, secular, inclusive and pluralistic. To regulate the alternative hour more effectively means to take a step forward that is no longer different in this direction, making those who do not use the teaching of the Catholic religion, but otherwise involved in educational activities that are given equal opportunity to implement. It is from the mode of declination of these rights that the future of our society passes. The public school can carry out educational tasks if the person of the pupil, with his/her peculiarities, is placed at the center of his/her action, without unequal treatment. It is only by pursuing this director that the school will be able to define itself as inclusive, secular and democratic and, therefore, able to respond to the challenges of the present and the future. [[Applause from Senator Wolf.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u97	I note that, at the request of the honourable Member, the reply to question 3-00141, tabled by Senator De Bonis, is postponed to a forthcoming sitting. We apologize to the government representative.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u98	Mr President, with reference to the issues raised on the basis of the elements acquired, it is a preliminary step that the new agreement of the Padano basin, signed in 2017 between the Ministry of the Environment and the Regions most affected by air quality issues - namely Emilia-Romagna, Lombardy, Piedmont and Veneto - provides for a series of measures to mitigate air pollution that have been reached following a close comparison between the Ministry and the competent territorial authorities. It should also be noted that all the measures contained in the agreement have been identified on the basis of in-depth analysis and technical assessments carried out by the regions, in order to identify the common elements to be exploited and revived in the transport sector, civil biomass heating and agriculture, which are more responsible for polluting emissions. Within the framework of the Padano basin agreement 2017, the signatory regions have decided to start a path of sharing the structural measures of limitation of circulation, adopting uniform modalities and times already in force in Emilia-Romagna before the signing of the agreement and planning to align with the structural measures on the Euro 4 diesels at the latest from 2020. Finally, with reference to the proposed unevenness between regional regulations, it is noted that the measures taken take into account the specific environmental conditions present in each region. In any case, there is a common ban on older and polluting vehicles, petrol up to EUR 2 and diesel up to EUR 3, which sometimes extends to subsequent production vehicles, with the possibility of derogations. In the light of the information exposed, it is noted however that the Ministry for the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea will keep high the level of attention on the issue, constantly monitoring the regulatory impact of the regulations of the field, also in order to overcome the operating criticalities that should emerge and evaluate possible revisions of the discipline. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u101	MAFFONI (FdI). Mr President, I believe I am partially satisfied with the Secretary of State's reply, partly because the question concerns the fact that the new agreement on anti-smog measures, which led to the agreement on air quality in the Padano basin, creates divergences between the various regions. Each region applies its own mode, a certain time slot, as well as a different identification of the categories of vehicles. This does not create a homogeneous situation or even a sharing of the provision and leads the people accustomed for reasons of work to attend the various Regions, maybe even during the same day, to not be able to understand the differences that exist between them. Our question is therefore aimed at understanding whether the Government can in any way promote greater coordination between the Regions, of which I understand their prerogatives and their way of intervening. However, I would have expected - and I still expect - that the Government will help to achieve greater coordination so that the regions adopt equal or similar systems.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u102	Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u103	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the second group of students from the State Science High School Galileo Ferraris in Turin, who are attending our work. [[Applause]] The sitting is suspended. He'll pick up at 3:00 with the question time. (The sitting was suspended at 11.38 a.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u104	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Zaffini has the right to explain the question 3-00371 on the interruption of the process of integration between ANAS and Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u105	Mr President, Minister, here we are again. The reference to the subject, as announced by the President, is that of the merger of ANAS and Ferrovie dello Stato. You, Minister, have made an absolutely unequivocal statement on this path: in July, in the course of your statements to the House, you told us that the merger is certainly wrong, because it was done without understanding why. Later, in the illustration of the programmatic lines of his Dicastery, he judged the merger to be a purely financial move, apparently dictated by reasons of personal gain for all those managers who saw themselves multiply the salary. He also announced that Ferrovie dello Stato. and ANAS will no longer be together (there is no reason for synergies) and that at the time it was considered whether the division could be carried out internally to the railway group or if it needed a special decree. In recent days, as you know, the managing director of ANAS, Vittorio Armani, has communicated to the Minister, that is to you, and to the Ferrovie dello Stato group their resignation with arguments that, among other things, took into consideration the changed orientation of the Government on the integration between Ferrovie dello Stato and ANAS. The question is very trivial and simple: what are the Government's intentions regarding the announced split between Ferrovie and ANAS and through what acts and procedures will be brought to completion? In particular, Minister, we would like to know what initiatives you intend to take to restore the autonomous governance of ANAS and, of course, to replace Armani, who resigned a few days ago. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Senator Toninelli, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u106	Mr President, thanking Senators Zaffini and Ciriani, I repeat that ANAS must return to the design, management, construction, maintenance and safety of roads, bridges and viaducts; it must work for the safety of citizens, with the sole objective of national interest. In these months we have assessed the criticalities of the FS-ANAS merger, on which my Dicastery has carried out the necessary deepenings also through the consultation of experts and the interested operators, who have highlighted from the technical point of view all the elements of weakness of the integration, first on the industrial plane, in addition to the total lack of synergies and therefore of course confirm what exposed in the programmatic declarations. With regard to ANAS, in the current phase our actions develop on three main axes: firstly, the supervision of the management activity of ANAS for the maintenance and development of roads, which are state public heritage; secondly, promoting the strengthening of the technical functions of ANAS, particularly the design and implementation of interventions; thirdly, promoting the maintenance and conservation of existing infrastructures, today more than ever a priority. The future corporate structure of ANAS will be decided taking into account the prospects of ANAS to respond to these guidelines. Of course, this will be an initiative on which the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport will intervene within its competence. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u107	Senator Zaffini has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u108	Mr President, we have a few more seconds, because we stole it, between me and the Minister, at the previous time.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u109	Let me tell you that.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u110	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mine was a wish, of course. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The wish is always well received. Mr Zaffini (FdI). Minister, as for supervision, in recent days the mayors of the territories affected by the motorway infrastructure A24 and A25 have asked you for a meeting and have not been able to meet you, have remained in the anteroom. This merger has been completed, as you have pointed out, having as the only fact known to third parties the increase (triplication in some cases) of the compensation for ANAS managers, compensation that unfortunately will be taken as a parameter for future liquidations. At this stage, ANAS is producing deaths: I am referring not to real deaths, but to the companies with which it operates, which continue to jump, at the expense - I am taking the example of Astaldi with Perugia-Ancona - of subcontractors. There is a whole world that around ANAS continues to bring books to court. Minister, it is really urgent to restore proper governance in ANAS and we expect this to happen very quickly, choosing the person who will have to replace the resigning Armani. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u111	Senator D'Arienzo has the power to illustrate the question 3-00372 on the assessments of the Government regarding the main infrastructural works in progress, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u112	Minister with his fist closed with his right hand, I hope he recovered from this morning's exultation for bringing home a nice building pardon. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u113	Senator D'Arienzo, I invite you to enter into the substance of the question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u114	D'ARIENZO (PD). Yes, Mr. President. We don't want happy degrowth, we don't want the country to go back to the Middle Ages. We left an important legacy with then Minister Delrio. Through the care of iron and the project Connecting Italy, we left 130 billion euros, of which at least 90 for the mobility and the great infrastructural works, in particular the railway ones. We have designed a modern and competitive country that, through public works, important ones, could grow in gross domestic product. You, on the contrary, also helped by the North League, which says something else on the territory, are blocking everything, with its ideology of costs and benefits. You have appointed a Commission that has to deal with these works (I do not list them, because they are almost all), a Commission that will only waste time, in particular because some works have already had the cost-benefit assessment and then because, as you know, the international agreements that the country has signed in recent years will not be respected. Faced with this expectation of growth and development, Italy is growing a great deal of concern. A few days ago, in Turin, thousands of people went down to the square with the economic categories. In a few days, next December 15th, something like this will take place also in the city of Verona. Businesses and workers are concerned. You put a large number of companies and workers in difficulty because of the blockage of large infrastructure works. Mr. Happy Degrowth Minister, this happens because they understand that your doing will cause many damage. We ask not to block the country and to move forward on the great works, because they are the very reason for the future of our country. You think that 70% of gross domestic product is produced on the Turin-Milan-Trieste axis. Is that what you want to block? We ask that we go ahead and, if you want to block the works, you must win in the administrations that have always voted for them - I repeat, forever - including the North League, which governs several of them. I believe that this is the reason why in the North of the country you do not reach the double figure: they know you and avoid you and have understood that this danger does not want to run it. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u115	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Senator Toninelli, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have said in the course of previous questions on the same issues raised today by the interrogators, I must reiterate the position of the Ministry in relation to the works which employ the greatest amount of public resources. In recent years it has been decreed and certified the failure of a way of understanding these works, over which for a long time there seemed to be no alternative. This approach was literally codified in 2001 in the so-called objective law, a programme of public works planning that was at the heart of the agenda, even of the previous government, until the umpteenth evidences have mercilessly shown its limits, leading to the complete repeal of the law and the redefinition of the works to be considered priority. Compared to that epilogue there was no raise of shields by those who consider it necessary to proceed in the sense indicated by the interrogators today. It therefore marvels at the insistence with which one tries to counter the action of this Government to the interest of the country. As the French Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance said, the Italian Government's questions about the TAV Torino-Lione are legitimate and must be respected: "It is a project that costs several billion euros," he said, "that we must ensure profitability in front of taxpayers." The words of the French Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. I therefore reply, once again, that the ongoing verification by the experts, commissioned by the Ministry to carry out the cost-benefit analysis on the major works, has the purpose of ensuring the correct use of public resources. Compared to the questions specifically asked, we can confirm that this analysis is based on the scientific criteria and objective parameters proper to the cost-benefit analysis in the technical sense, as well as on the Guidelines for the evaluation of public works adopted by the same Ministry by decree of 30 June 2017. I continue to dissipate my doubts by reminding you that we are fully aware that the blockage of works can entail costs arising from the commitments made by previous governments. These costs are not part of the cost-benefit analysis in their own sense, but the technical mission structure is also responsible for evaluating them and representing them through a separate technical-juridical analysis, which the Government will take into account in its decisions. I therefore repeat once again that both the cost-benefit analysis in the technical sense and the parallel analysis of the burden on the public budget in case of blockage of infrastructure works, including those on which international agreements exist, will be made public. The time that is being used for these complex evaluations will however be minimal compared to the total time of realization of the great works under consideration and will be such that it will not produce harmful consequences for the interest of the country. It is known and certified that the cost of public works programmed by previous governments from the notorious objective law has increased exponentially. I ask for a moment of attention: the Milan-Bologna-Florence TAV, which according to the initial estimate was to cost 1.3 billion euros, at its completion cost about 13 billion euros, with an increase of 917 percent; it seems to me that these data lead to understand how a cost-benefit analysis evening, third and independent is more necessary than ever. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] State No. 38 in Valtellina, which was to cost 481 million euros, after thirteen years, has come to cost 2.5 billion euros, or 401 percent more than the initial project. I recall that the same works have been - over the past decades - the subject of systematic revaluations, not only by the various political representatives who succeeded each other, but also by technical institutions, although they had already been analysed upstream with a cost-benefit perspective. It was the European Court of Auditors itself that defined, shortly after the formation of this Government, the rail network of the TEN-T corridor as an uneven and ineffective system of lines without a realistic long-term plan. It is not the Movimento 5 Stars, but the European Court. I would also remind you that in France, the Government installed in May 2017 instructed the Technical Commission to identify the country's priorities at the infrastructural level, also with regard to the works under construction, such as those of the TEN-T corridor, and the results were produced in February following, after about nine months. The attention that the Government is placing on the use of public resources invested in works inherited from the past and particularly burdensome is in line with what other European governments have done and is taking into account all the interests at stake. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u117	I give the floor to Senator Margiotta to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u118	Minister, we are, of course, completely dissatisfied with your answers. On the other hand, I understand the difficulties it faces: all over the world, the Ministers of Infrastructure are called upon to carry out the works, large and small; you are the only Minister who is working to block the works. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You have relied on cost-benefit analysis, an ancient tool not to tell the truth: you want to take time, a time that the country does not have. We're in danger of going into recession and what are you guys doing? Pull the handbrake of the sector that more than others would allow our country to grow on the path of development and work. We are hanging on to the decisions of a Commission which has not in fact yet been set up, a ghost Commission. The country is hung in your time, those of the worst politics of the last twenty years, that is yours, that of the fake news and the condons, of the decrease and resentment, of the unemployment and of the debts. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You had the courage to say today that by November the Commission would complete its evaluation work. Have the good taste to tell the Italians that the work has not even begun, given the Court of Auditors' findings. But to recall it to good taste, after today's demonstrations, it is really superfluous, otherwise it would have avoided coming, a few hours ago, in this Chamber, to speak satisfied and full of the Genoa decree and to attack in a distracted, uncomfortable, embarrassing and unworthy way when it said: "By your fault," making a mark on that side and on ours, "the bridge collapsed." In this regard, I say to you: how dare you? What would be our fault on the bridge of Genoa? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Minister, there is nothing you can be proud of, with the bridge of Genoa still to be demolished, with a city firm because of your ineptitude, a bridge that you do not know who will demolish and who will rebuild, a decree arrived in the parliamentary classrooms more than two months after the collapse of the Morandi bridge, with its sabotage of the third pass and the Grunda, confirmed also by the things he said. I have a lot to say, but I'm out. Minister, in Turin 50,000 people came to the square, as my previous colleague reminded me. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] , which cannot be dismissed as madam and bourgeoisie. There is great concern in the country, for what you are and for what you are doing.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u119	I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u120	MARGIOTTA (PD). You are sacrificing the future of the country on the altar of ephemeral consent. [[Applause from the PD Group.Comments from the M5S Group.]] Fortunately, you are a time minister, but the damage you have been able to do in these few months will take your name for a long time and you will have to take responsibility for it, but I'm afraid you don't have the ability to understand, otherwise you would have taken a step back already. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Time! Time! Patuanelli (M5S). Time, Mr. President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, silence, please! MARGIOTTA (PD). Actually, this country doesn't deserve what you're doing and the way you're doing it and you're scaring us. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u121	Before we move on to the next question, for the sake of clarity of all colleagues, we have also given the Minister extra time to explain a rather complex situation. LUPI (M5S). But it's the Minister! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All Members have the right to conclude the speech and the Presidency is responsible for the time, very carefully.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u122	Mr President, in recent months statements and denials have been made by members of the Government in connection with the future of infrastructure and major works, many of which have already begun, including the Turin-Lyon railway line, the Asti-Cuneo motorway and the Brenner tunnel (or rather, the base tunnel). The tragic collapse of the so-called Morandi bridge in Genoa, which took place on 14 August 2018, was followed by a further series of declarations, sometimes contradictory, by the Minister in address and other authoritative representatives of the Government, about the future of the management of infrastructure of great importance for companies and citizens, such as the highways. The possible retraction of the agreements already assumed by the Government on works such as the Turin-Lyon railway line, the Asti-Cuneo motorway and the Brenner tunnel, as well as the withdrawal of the motorway concessions, would, in the first case, entail additional costs for citizens and businesses and, in the second case, consequences whose qualification and quantification is of great importance to make wise and coherent choices, that do not go to the detriment of companies and citizens. The French Minister for Transport, Elisabeth Borne, spoke on 13 November during a question time at the French Senate, said: "The Torino-Lion High Speed was the subject of a Franco-Italian treaty ratified in February 2017. The President of the French Republic confirmed this commitment at the Franco-Italian summit in September 2017. On November 12, I entertained with my Italian counterpart. The Italian Government trusts in a cost-benefit analysis for the continuation of the work. I have indicated that the coherence of the project must be pursued and I recall that the European Union had committed itself to financing half of the work. We have planned, in the planning of investments, projects related to the work relating to daily transport and intermodal infrastructures. Our commitments will be developed by a special transport law, which includes both ordinary and high-speed transport. It is asked to know the following: what is the ratio of the governmental choices in the matter of infrastructures and great works and what are the reasons for the apparent uncertainties on the continuation of the works of completion of the infrastructures and the great works already begun, such as the railway line Turin-Lione, the highway Asti-Cuneo and the tunnel of Brennero; what are the intentions of the Minister in address regarding the management of infrastructures and large works, whose works have already been started, as well as the management of the highway network, also regarding the options of confidence to the private ones or of nationalization. It is also asked to know how much direct and indirect costs in case of renunciation or modification of the agreements already in place and in relation to the works started and, with regard to the issue of the highway network, how much they amount to the costs for the eventual withdrawal of the concessions announced in recent weeks. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u123	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Senator Toninelli, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u124	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to answer such complex and organic questions, it would take far more than three minutes for me to answer, but I will try to answer your questions. As I have said on several occasions, I repeat that the distinctive figure of government decisions on particularly expensive infrastructure and works is the maximization of benefits in the face of cost minimization. This may seem incomprehensible, unfortunately, only to those who have used the so-called large infrastructure works as a business to enrich themselves at the expense of taxpayers. This way of using public money has unfortunately occurred for too many years. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Great works to spend, not money well spent on useful works. We're overturning this paradigm. The situation regarding the works being carried out which you are asking of me should be assessed on a case-by-case basis. In addition to the analysis of the costs and benefits of the ongoing works, the experts of the technical mission structure are also working to assess the consequences of the choices that can be adopted by the Government and whose qualification and quantification is of absolute importance so that these choices are prudent and consistent and do not go to the detriment of companies and citizens, unlike what the Governments supported by Forza Italia, for example, regarding works such as the bridge on the Strait of Messina, for which it cannot be remembered that the Court of Auditors calculated that they were spent, in 2013, 958 million euros. With regard to the management of motorways, the Government is inspired by the same principles: maximum benefits for citizens, in this case through the rebalancing of public and private interests. It seems to me that today's balance, from mathematical data, is totally in favour of private dealers, who did not maintain what they should have done under the law and the convention. The cases of the individual motorway concessions, as well as for the great works, should be analysed individually because they are the subject of complex assessments and different problems, caused by the scallop conventions and by the laws approved by the governments and ratified by the previous parliaments. In this area, however, the government has already gone from announcements to concrete facts, we have not talked enough about it, but let us try to do so now. This Senate has in fact just converted the so-called Genoa decree into law. In this law have been redesigned the competences of the Authority of regulation of the transports, a real revolution - let's say - in the definition of the highway tolls: for the first time, in fact, the rates will no longer be paralleled to the operating costs of the concessionaires, that therefore they were led to increase the costs, so much the works did them, and with the increase of the rates they gained twice - I say it for those who have allowed this and that they are always on one side and on the other - and the price of investments only previewed, but they will take into account - and this is fundamental - the investments actually realized and the revenues that the concessionaires will be able to produce. [[Comments from Senator Bellanova.]] We are saying that citizens who take a motorway will have tolls that are no longer cost-related - higher costs, greater convenience for dealers, higher tolls - but will be compared to revenues, that is to say to a much larger complex that dealers will have to be careful about, because if not, tolls will not increase and will not increase their earnings either. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] It is a structural revolution in the management of motorway concessions and we have done so! This is a rule for the benefit of the users of motorways, who will pay less (less tolls), and honest dealers who will be able to invest in the public interest, offering a truly efficient service.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u125	I invite you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u126	Mr Toninelli, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. I will conclude, Mr President, thank you. For dealers who do not invest or delay to do so they will go to reduce directly the tolls that represent their revenues. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] They'll reduce dealer revenues if they don't make investments. If there had been this rule, the tragedy of Genoa would never have happened. The state is going back to the state. Investment in infrastructure must ensure a positive impact on the economy and be a driver of growth and development for the country. Today we have begun to dismantle the regime of concessions put in place for ten years and in ten years by the Berlusconi Government and all previous governments. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u127	I give the floor to Senator Berutti to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u128	Mr Minister, with regard to the question I asked, I did not receive a basic answer: your speech was a manifesto linked to the Genoa Decree, approved this morning. Having received no answer, however, we will also ask questions in another context and give you time to tell us more in detail what you intend to do for these works. I am not against situations of control and attention, because we must also be consistent and honest, but I believe that what the country asks is that you, sooner or later, start a work, small or large that is, instead of blocking them all. In light of this, of course, we will put the relevant questions in other contexts. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u129	Senator Ricciardi has the power to illustrate the question 3-00374 on the safeguard of the current legal regime publicistico of the harbour Authorities, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u130	Mr President, Minister, we understand that the European Commission has taken a decision on the alleged State aid granted to the Port Authority in Naples. We are talking about EUR 44 million used for the restructuring of state property. In fact, in the decision it is hypothesized that these harbour Authorities are enterprises and that therefore the transfers that they receive from the State are notified like State aid, in how much they make available to third harbour state property. Moreover, the decision brings down censorship is on the modalities of release of the state property concessions, is on the non legitimacy of the derived legislation with which the state property canons are calculated currently fixed with ministerial decrees valid in all the Italian ports. The decision gives rise to three serious uncertainties. The first one is the relative regime to the state property concessions in existence, the second one is on the same titles through which the substantial totality of the state property concessionaires in the Italian ports today occupies the ports and offers services to the harbour users, finally, in third place, are born doubts on the relationships between Authority of harbour system and between these and the concessionary or authorized enterprises operating in the Italian ports. The acquiescence regarding such act of the European Commission could also prejudice any future revaluation of the harbour discipline in being, being the decision conditioned from an approach that could harm is principles to the base of the current norm of our order, because it is characterized from a public nature of the ports and the goods belonging to the harbour State property, is of the reserve of sovereignty and the competences in exclusive on such recognized goods in favor of the national norm previewed in regard from the same sources of the European Union. Therefore, we ask the Minister if it is to know of the facts exposed and which initiatives, in the within of own competences, intends to assume in order to safeguard the current regime in force in the Italian ports and their public nature, besides the reserve previewed regarding the national sovereigntys, guaranteeing certainty of the law and continuity of action for the Authorities of harbour system, let alone for all the enterprises and the workers that operate in our ports. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u131	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Senator Toninelli, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the development of the port economy is one of the most important and promising opportunities for economic growth in Italy. In this scenario it is firm conviction of the Government that a central role must belong to the Authorities of harbour system in public regime, because in our opinion the public nature allows to contemper in more effective way the instances of all the subjects that operate in the Italian ports. With regard to the concerns and uncertainties expressed by my colleagues, I would like to point out that the request for information received from the European Commission, to which the Ministry has already given formal reply last 10 September, concerns the limited profile of taxation, but in no way affects any political choice regarding the legal nature of the port authorities. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to reassure you that my approach is firmly opposed to privatisation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In order to start the overall evaluation of the problems of the harbour Authorities in view of the necessary participations to their solution, we have started the procedure for the convocation, for the first time from its institution, of the National Conference of coordination of the Authorities of harbour system. To the intense activities are invited the representatives of the employers' associations and union of the operating categories in the marine-harbour field. With this instrument, we want to address all the issues of this essential sector. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u133	Senator Ricciardi has the power to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u134	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister and I am pleased, also on behalf of all the signatories to the question. Thank you, because at this point we will safeguard the current regime and its publicistic nature in the ports. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u135	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u138	Mr Misiani (PD). Mr President, two days ago Giancarlo Zilio, Senator of the 13th legislature, left us. Zilio was a Member of Parliament of the Republic, but he was first of all a great journalist. Editor-in-chief, vice-director and editorialist among the most prestigious of the Echo of Bergamo, the historian Catholic daily Bergamo, Zilio was a political journalist in the true sense of the term, a editorialist with a straight back, authoritative, capable of telling, with his dry style, the curves and dynamics of political life. Zilio had a well-defined identity: he was a democratic Catholic, proud of his roots, and with politicians, regardless of his membership, he had built relationships of mutual respect. A civilization of the relationships that we should take for example, in a bad phase of confrontation between politics and the media like the one we are living. In the 1990s, when the Christian Democracy season ended, Zilio joined the Italian People's Party and in the middle of the decade he decided with conviction the political project of the Olive tree. They were years of great changes, complicated years, but also exciting, because around the leadership and political project of Romano Prodi they were gathering democratic Catholics, lay people, left-wing democrats, parties and associative realities, individual people who for a long time had been far away and who now, together, started a political project that would result, eleven years later, in the Democratic Party. In Bergamo Zilio was the protagonist of that phase. On 21 April 1996, he was elected Senator of the Republic in the ranks of the Italian People's Party. In the Senate he was a member of the Industry Commission, the Health Commission, the Committee of Inquiry into the National Health System and the Parliamentary Supervisory Commission on RAI. It is primarily due to his stubbornness and his work in Parliament if the city of Bergamo was allocated the resources, by decision of the then Minister of Health Rosy Bindi, to finance the construction of the new hospital, which today is one of the structures of excellence at national level. His style and human trait were an important lesson for so many of us who began to engage in politics in those years. They were the style and trait of a man who had his convictions and defended them face-to-face, but never denigrating opponents, never resorting to insult, never using hatred and fake news as instruments of political struggle. A way of being that, in this season of politics degraded to tweets and post truths, may seem dull and belong to a distant world. It's not like that. The lesson of men like Zilio is absolutely current, Mr President. Another policy is possible, even in Italy in 2018. It is up to the new generation, it is up to those who are sitting in this House today to rediscover its value and beauty. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u139	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u141	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, on Sunday 25 November, the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, established by the United Nations General Assembly in 1999, will take place. We at the Brothers of Italy want to dedicate that day to all the victims and in particular we want to dedicate it to the poor Desirée Mariottini who yesterday the review court wanted to victimize a second time, kill a second time, derubrating the crime to non-voluntary murder and the act of group rape to sexual abuse with the only aggravating factor related to the minor age of the victim as well as to the drug dealing. We believe that this decision, as well as representing a secondary victimization, once again proposes a problem that was already in place - and unfortunately the cases are also many - when with Pamela Mastropietro in Macerata a history unfortunately similar occurred. It's as if certain victims and certain deaths count less than others. It is as if these victims, if they had survived, would almost require the burden of proof. We believe that this decision is offensive to memory, that it removes justice, that it does not defend the victims and that it does not punish the murderers. On the subject of violence against women - which is not a subject, I correct myself, but an immense issue - yesterday we also presented motion 1-00049, which I hope will be scheduled shortly that in addition to having to reconstruct the international scope of reference of norms and indications, it also reconstructs the body of Italian law but above all asks the Government for precise and strict commitments in relation to the implementation of the plan of action against extraordinary national sexual violence, in relation to the distribution of resources to the regions that are established in the State-Regions Conference but that do not arrive at the centers in due time, as well as the putting into practice of programs of education to feelings, also in schools, based on respect for gender differences and the prevention and the contrast of violence on women and girls. Again, we call on the motion not to include cuts and reductions in the Budget Act 2019 for the Equal Opportunities Policy Fund and for all policies to prevent and combat all forms of violence against women. We hope that in the debate on this motion there will be a broad consensus in this House to commit the government, which has unfortunately not been decisive and has not made significant changes in terms of equal opportunities and conflict. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u144	MODENA (FI-BP). Mr President, my speech concerns the issue of reconstruction and, in particular, the situation of a municipality in the region where I was elected, that is, the municipality of Spoleto. Tomorrow, November 16th, there will be a large institutional event in Bastia Umbra, which is a laughing center of Umbria, organized precisely by the Region with reference to reconstruction. It is important because the new Commissioner will come Farabollini and despite the fact that the Municipality of Spoleto is the most peculiar one, being the largest of the entire crater, the presence of the institutional level of the Municipality has not been taken into consideration at all. We don't know why. The Umbria Region has always had white moments, let's say so, and black moments, but we believe that this situation must be strongly denounced because the approach that towards reconstruction, especially when the newly named Commissioner Farabollini is present in order to reason for reconstruction and civil protection, must be of an institutional nature and must not exclude any administration, even more so if directly concerned. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u147	CORRADO (M5S). Mr President, on 7 November last, the Court of Cassation acquitted the veterinary doctor of the provincial health company (ASP) of Crotone Giuseppe Gallucci, who had renounced the use of the prescription, unlike the co-defendant, Dr Saverio Ferraro, who took advantage of it in appeal, for crimes related to a judicial case also put to the attention of the commission against the 'Andrangheta of the Calabria Region. All this begins with the complaint proposed in 2006 against the ASL of Crotone by Mr Nicola Arena, nephew of the homonymous boss of Isola Capo Rizzuto, owner of a dairy cattle farm that, at a slaughter, were found suffering from tuberculosis. As a result of this, 102 livestock were to be slaughtered. Mr. Arena made a claim to the ASP for compensation of EUR 1 million for the damage caused to him by Dr. Saverio Ferraro, who, in violation of all health and ethical logic, had, instead, officially certified tuberculosis-free the stable in question, firing for free sale the infected milk for food use. In September 2012, the two defendants were sentenced to first instance: Ferraro to three months imprisonment for false ideology and interruption of public service and Gallucci to one month imprisonment for interruption of public service. Despite his conviction, from 2012 to today Dr. Ferraro has been the acting director of area A of the veterinary service of Crotone's ASP. Moreover, in April 2014, the same produced a replacement certification declaration stating that it did not incur any of the causes of inconferibility and incompatibility of tasks with public administrations and with private bodies in public control, all while still the trial against it was pending in the Court of Appeal. Only at the end of 2017, in fact, the Court of Appeal of Catanzaro declared that it was not necessary to proceed against Ferraro for a prescription. In March 2018 an internal competition for executive in area A of the veterinary service was launched, the outcome of which is still suspended, although all the related procedures have been concluded already in April and that almost certainly will see him winner for the score acquired with the position of acting director unduly held in these years. I therefore hope that the appointment of such a person as manager will be blocked. He acted to the detriment of the public veterinary service for reasons which the company leaders have not yet clarified even during the hearing held in June last by the regional committee against the 'ndrangheta'. Of all this and of other serious anomalies of the management of this operating unit has also been made signal to the National Anti-corruption Authority (ANAC), still without confirmation. I also believe that the time has come for the Directors-General to assume their responsibilities even in the choices of the managers subordinate to them, who must no longer be conditioned, as has happened all too often, by pressures and logics of power and lobbying, but only by the protection of citizens' right to health. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u150	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, a shocking sentence was delivered a few days ago: an antagonist of the social centres, tried for spitting in the face of a police officer while he was doing his job, was acquitted in particular of the fact. In short, from now on, according to this sentence spitting on our Forces of order is not a crime, in particular if it is the thugs of the social centers, who in Italy have always enjoyed a particular immunity. On the other hand, if an agent had allowed himself to spit in the face of a delinquent, according to the crime of torture included in our order by the left, the same would risk up to twelve years in prison for causing a psychic trauma to the poor man. Similarly, we all wonder what would have happened if the defendant or the cop had spit in the face of the magistrate who pronounced this sentence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator, these are late-session speeches, but please maintain a respectful language. FAZZOLARI (FdI). Language is respectful, because that's what happened. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I think you understand perfectly. Finish your surgery. FAZZOLARI (FdI). I understood perfectly and I keep wondering what would have happened to inverted parts, whether it was the policeman who performed that act against the magistrate or even the defendant against the magistrate. Brothers of Italy says enough is enough for this shameful drift in which the State always takes sides with the criminals and against our Forces of Order. We continue to ask for simple things, such as the tightening of penalties for offense and violence to the public officer and the revision of this madness of the crime of torture: they are the subject of two amendments that Brothers of Italy has repeatedly tabled and which has also retabled in the last security decree-law and that have been rejected by this Parliament, certainly from the left, certainly from the 5 Star Movement, but also from the League. We do not give up and we will continue to do this battle in every place. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u153	Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, the story of Ciampino's referee beaten savagely for expulsion at the end of a game is only the last chapter of a full-bodied dossier of violence that weighs on the most recent history of our football and which humiliates its sporting value. In the face of a wound that is reopened with dramatic frequency, in addition to the human closeness to the young victim of aggression, there is a strong need for a firm reaction, but equally coherent and concrete, to counter phenomena of this kind, even more in a context that should be among the most fertile in the cultivation of absolute principles, such as the recognition of the other. In the hot statements after the episode, Vice Prime Minister Salvini spoke of educational emergency, and I certainly agree with him. But the promise or threat of new and heavier sanctions against violent people is only part of the work that I believe we have a duty to do. In fact, we cannot believe that we can react successfully to an educational emergency without taking proper care of education. In the medium to long term, education to respect, respect for the opponent, rules, who the rules are called to enforce them, is a promise of change that will pay more than any threat. What I am trying to express to you today in words, colleagues and colleagues, I touched with hand in the city from which I come, Turin, where the association of referees for three years promotes meetings with sports clubs (meetings with the leaders and captains of the teams), to enter the merit of the regulation and, through its deeper knowledge, force the players first to a correct approach with the figure of the race director. These are precious occasions, especially in smaller categories; occasions that should be extended to families and that have proved to be successful in bringing to the limelight that passion, today paid at a high price, that the president of the FIGC Gravina called bitterly in condemning the state of siege in which the category of black shirts is felt. It is this action on the education that the referees themselves have transmitted to me and that I put at the disposal of the Assembly: to act on mutual recognition between boys (but also many girls) united by the desire to stand in the field, each with his own role, and united by the desire to give a contribution to the world of football, to use the words of President Gravina. I hope that the president of the FIGC will also take as virtuous the example that I have brought and in interlocution with the Government seek alliances not only to obtain certainty and severity of the penalty, but also formative planning for our young people. The results of the Turin experiment are encouraging, and encouraging is to see that you want to put your face in order to remove sports from the hands of violent people. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u154	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u156	Mr Berutti (FI-BP). Mr President, I asked to speak in order to bring to the attention of the Assembly the story of Pernigotti, a famous national and international brand for gianduiotti and other confectionery products, historically an expression of the best made in Italy and made in Piedmont, born in Novi Ligure, in the province of Alexandria, in 1860, even before Italy united. It is last week the news that the Turkish property has decided the closure of the plant novese with the consequent forecast of the Cassa Integrazione gains extraordinary and for the workers, for which at first the only possibility of dismissal has emerged from the company. The pride of the territory for a production of excellence and the attention of several institutional subjects that guard it have allowed immediately to focus on this matter the utmost attention, that has led so far the property to say available to a trust of the production to Italian partners, to a commitment so that the staff can be relocated to companies operating in the field and to third parties. This is not enough, however, because there is a high risk that these promises will be very little concrete. In accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, it is necessary that the fundamental commitment of the territory, which alone cannot suffice, finds support at a higher institutional level. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that while I hope that this House will wish to express solidarity with the production reality of Novi Ligure, I also hope that all the institutional actors involved in this affair will have the proper consequences for the need for industrial strategies for the country, from the issue of company transfers to that of the registration of protected designations of origin (PDO), protected geographical indications (PGI) and historical marks, all of which every public decision-maker should think carefully about. Finally, I would like to make a brief digression. This morning I was at the Ministry of Economic Development (MISE) to express my closeness to the workers, convinced that I can attend the table after the agreements taken in recent days. My secretariat had heard that of the Minister, but there was no mention of the need to sign up for a platform. I do not know how many people in this House know that we have to register for a platform, including an algorithm: by entering a number of elements in this House it would be possible to identify four subjects, two of majority and two of opposition, who would have the opportunity to participate in the table. I wonder whether this is the freedom of Members to participate in crisis tables; I believe that this is insane. At 10 a.m., the table was convened at the MISE; at 10.44 a.m., the secretariat wrote to me - of course, as you can imagine, after an exchange of enough access - saying: As anticipated by telephone, the credit for access to plenary meetings at crisis tables must be made by registering at the appropriate portal, which is provided by the link. (...) I believe that this should at least be pointed out to all Members in terms of regulation, because I do not know how many people know, maybe someone might have happened. In conclusion, I hope that this will no longer be the case, but above all that it will be mentioned as well as other elements. I believe that we will move forward on this matter, because I consider it crazy to prevent Members from sitting at crisis tables. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u157	Senator Berutti, we take note of the report and of these modalities, assuming that the possibility of registering was actually known.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u158	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u160	RUFA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I hope that this speech will be shared because it is aimed at expressing consensus, gratitude, support and solidarity to those journalists and all those involved in the sector who, in their ethical loyalty, honour their work; to those journalists who make courageous choices when they investigate burning realities. My closeness goes therefore to Federico Ruffo, a journalist of the Rai, author of a difficult investigation, on a subject where in the XVII legislature you have established a special parliamentary committee, on alleged relations between football teams, sports leaders, ultra and 'ndrangheta. Three days ago in fact he found a cross with red paint and flammable liquid in several parts of the landing of his house (a house not always inhabited). I condemn this cowardly, deplorable and intimidating act. I believe and hope that this warning does not stop the intellectual desire and honesty of journalist Ruffo and his staff and I hope that he finds in us and in what we represent closeness and trust to move forward. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u161	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u163	LANNUTTI (M5S). Mr President, on 7 November last year the Managing Director of ANAS, Gianni Armani, resigned, while some managers employed within ANAS remain in their place, in the context of change of governance, such as Rocco Girlanda, Emanuela Poli, Stefania Lombardi and others. The Italian and foreign ANAS management, full of conflicts of interest, sees some critical situations, especially on Anas international enterprise, whose managing director, Bernardo Magricola, also holds the position of general manager of a holding listed on the stock exchange (Astm, Sitaf, Tecnositaf, Sina are all companies of the Gavio group), according to me in clear conflict of interest. Even these assignments do not even appear on the institutional site of ANAS. Just yesterday in a newspaper appeared an article of an entire page signed by Francesco Bonazzi, titled: On the table of the successor of Armani, the grain of Russian consulting ANAS is read that the international sector of the company has obtained in six years placed in difficult and particular markets and that raise doubts two transfers from more than 20 million rubles to an unknown company, then turned to another group. Mr President, I put these issues to the attention of the House and also some attempts within the ANAS - under the management of Armani - to be intimidated by the head of the Company Protection Directorate, General Roberto Massi, who served on 1 October 2016, in full was Armani. According to information, he tries to intimidate the workers of ANAS on alleged leaks of information concerning the legality within the company, with real interrogations verbalized by his collaborator, Mrs. Scuderi, as happened a few days ago with a lawyer named Sara Apolloni. In my opinion, these interrogations are illegitimate. Mr President, thank you for your attention and I put these problems to the House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u164	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u166	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, I would like to take advantage of the few minutes available to urge the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Toninelli, to respond to the fact that we have had an inspection union of 3-00116, in which, together with many of our colleagues, we are asking about the completion of the Asti-Cuneo motorway, which started in 1998 and which, for more than twenty years, has engaged the various governments that have followed to make promises of completion. In the past legislature, with the approval of the law 12 September 2014, n. 133, in the matter of motorway concessions, was defined the procedure to modify the existing motorway concessions, in order to assure the resources necessary for the investments expected from the country and fundamental for the development of the territories. Between the end of 2017 and the beginning of 2018 the minister pro tempore Graziano Delrio communicated that, in agreement with the concessionary company, the operation of an extension of the motorway concession was being considered subordinate to the financing of the necessary investments (cross-financing) for the completion of the Asti-Cuneo section, with a design revision that, overcoming the old hypothesis of the tunnels with two rods initially planned, provided an external surface solution that reduced the costs and accelerated the possibility of obtaining in short time the realization of the work. On 27 April 2018, the European Commission, with a positive decision on State Aid SA.49335, among other measures, authorised the extension of the concession for the Turin-Milan section to allow financing, through this section, also the completion of the Asti-Cuneo, assessing the cost of around 350 million euros. In the question we asked the Minister to speed up as much as possible the necessary steps to be able to transfer them to CIPE and begin. In the days following that question, at the beginning of September, during a meeting with the Ministry, the Minister confirmed that he wanted to complete the works and that it would be a highway intervention (even because in the previous days there were strange voices) and said that, as soon as possible, he would re-evaluate the cost of the work in order to proceed forward. Now, we certainly ask the answer to the question, but above all, after two months have passed since that meeting with the Minister, to understand what happened to that assessment, because the economic data evaluated by the Chamber of Commerce show that the lack of that motorway connection costs the territory EUR 100 million per year. We would not want us to lose 100 million every year in order to reduce the cost of the 350 million planned for the completion of the motorway by perhaps 20-25 million euros; this seems to me to be a reasoning that is neither in heaven nor on earth. We ask the Minister to respond urgently, but above all urgently to put the shipyards on the track. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u167	I say that the President of the Senate and the President of the Chamber of Deputies have appointed members of the Parliamentary Commission for simplification. The list of members of that Commission will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u168	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-59.ana.u169	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 20 November, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.03 p.m.
