ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:39 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Carossino, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 11 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u3	At the beginning of the sitting, the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, a request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, before continuing with the order of business, allow me to address an affectionate greeting of welcome back to President emeritus Giorgio Napolitano. [[Applause.]] Dear President, I believe that your capacity to participate in the work and your institutional passion are the best example for all the members of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u5	The next item is: "Communications from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 18 October 2018 and subsequent discussion" After the speech of the President of the Council of Ministers, the debate will take place, the timing of which has been divided between the Groups for a total of 3 hours and 30 minutes, as set out by the Conference of Leaders. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u6	Mr President, kind senators, kind senators, the European Council in which I will take part in Brussels, the second of the government that I chair, comes at a time when, even in relation to June, it is even more evident throughout Europe that the citizens' earnest expectation of receiving answers and concrete solutions from the European institutions is evident. Key issues such as immigration, Brexit and the completion of the Banking Union are included in the agenda of the European Council on 17 and 18 October and Eurosummit on 18 October. In addition to these issues are those of internal security, which we have partly dealt with in the informal pre-vertex which took place in Salzburg on 19 and 20 September, the chapter on external relations. This European Council comes at a particularly important stage for the European project. The final period of the so-called institutional cycle has indeed begun. The European elections, which are scheduled for May 2019, will pave the way for the appointment of the new Commission and the new President of the European Council. Above all, the path towards European elections sees the Union facing four challenges, the answers of which are improcrastinable in the same perception as European citizens. The first challenge is to work for a shared multilevel management of migratory flows, which allows to face a problem now global with a change of paradigm - as we have suggested from the beginning - preferring a structural approach to an emerging approach, starting from the primary movements to the secondary ones. A common response must be given, with the definition of a stable and sustainable mechanism already in the landing, redistribution and repatriation phases, without additional burdens for countries such as Italy of first arrival. These are the objectives of efficient and timely regulation, included in our European Multilevel Strategy for Migration, with which Italy, thanks to its significant contribution, has helped to reverse the trend in Europe since the June European Council. Then there is the Brexit node, which must be dissolved by reaching an agreement of withdrawal between the United Kingdom and the European Union that protects the acquired rights of European citizens resident in the United Kingdom, economic and commercial relations, for Italy in particular geographical indications and security. A third challenge is economic and financial stability, eurozone governance and the completion of the European Banking Union. It is essential for our country to reduce the growth gap with the European Union, directing public spending fiscal policy to a perspective of stable and sustainable economic growth. At the same time, we will support the need to create a genuine European mechanism for the protection of bank deposits, the third pillar of the Banking Union. Italy's commitment to the completion of the Economic and Banking Union remains unchanged. The country system as a whole has worked to take important and effective measures to reduce the risk of the banking system. Among the various progress achieved, the net suffering, i.e. net of write-downs and provisions already made by banks with their own resources, amounted to 40.1 billion in July 2018, thus almost 26 billion less than the values observed a year earlier. Compared to the maximum level of net suffering, reached in November 2015, of 88.8 billion, the reduction was therefore significant, of 48.7 billion. Today the ratio of net suffering to total employment has been reduced to 2.3 percent; it was 4.9 at the end of 2016. The fourth challenge is the negotiation of a new and ambitious multi-annual European budget, the so-called multi-annual financial framework, in which we will call for better spending of resources for the management of immigration; we will also call for more resources for security and growth, but we will certainly not accept reduced contributions for agriculture and cohesion. In my first speech on the next multiannual financial framework 2021-2027, I have already expressed the need to have a stronger, fairer and more supportive Europe, with particular attention to the problem of poverty and the territorial divide, with a wise use of the structural funds dedicated to this issue; greater attention to work, growth, competitiveness, innovation and social inclusion, with our young people at the centre with a further contribution to the European Social Fund; a modern Union budget to address common challenges and support national growth. Let me take this opportunity to stress the urgent need for a change of pace in the European Union, which must increasingly be directed towards the needs of civil society, to be closer to peoples and citizens. Italy is a founding country of the European Union and a net contributor to the EU budget. With this position of ours, we are going to Brussels with an economic maneuver - as you know - just deliberate, of which we are proud and on which we intend to start a dialogue, confronting ourselves without prejudice. We are convinced that austerity is a road no longer viable. All the measures at the heart of the economic maneuver, on which the Government is committed and on which I will certainly have the opportunity to explain in detail also to the European institutions, to our partners in Europe, are aimed at promoting growth, employment and combating poverty in the sign of social stability. On this I can assure you that the Government everything is working with awareness and responsibility all the time. The architrave of our maneuver is the investment, that is the component that has lacked most in the economic policies of recent years, that have caused a delay of increase of our Country regarding the European average. To revive investments we will act on three fronts: resources, simplification of procedures and strengthening of the skills and design capacities of the country system. The years of economic growth have taught us that a society with profound inequalities in the distribution of wealth is not only morally unacceptable, but it risks frustrating and imploding the economy itself. A country that has 5 million poor has an obvious problem of distributive justice and social estate. Even international institutions, such as the International Monetary Fund, have long maintained that a country with strong social and economic inequalities is not and cannot be stable. The International Monetary Fund itself in 2017 called on Italy to have a universal welfare instrument and also in the European pillar of social rights the need to establish a minimum income programme linked to reintegration into the world of work is stressed. Italy remains an essential actor for the four challenges, which I have just mentioned and summarized, to find an effective and convincing European solution. We want to play this role with the greatest commitment, because we regard membership of Europe as an essential part of the programme to improve the socio-economic conditions of Italian citizens and European citizens. Now allow me to enter more specifically on the agenda of the various issues. In the field of immigration, the work of the European Council will make an initial assessment of the detailed conclusions agreed at the summit last June. We have worked, and continue to do so, to ensure that the conclusions of this European Council respect the priority of a balanced and timely implementation of all the contents that have already passed in the conclusions of the European Council last June. In essence, we continue to consider it essential that Member States and Community institutions are consistent with that change of perspective. In fact, we have achieved that the European approach to the management of migration goes in the direction of an indispensable balance between primary movements and secondary movements, recognition of the principle of shared efforts to manage migrants following a rescue at sea. At this European Council it is therefore essential to reaffirm the European Union's commitment to strengthening cooperation with countries of origin and transit and to invest more and better in the management of primary movements. I will therefore reaffirm the high priority of substantial and timely refinancing by the other Member States of the European Union Trust Fund for Africa, technically the Trust Fund for Africa. Investing in Africa as well as Africa is a priority that I also highlighted in the recent visit to Ethiopia and Eritrea, on 11 and 12 October. Political stability in that area, made possible again thanks to the historic peace agreement signed between the two countries - the last on 16 September - is in fact essential and should be encouraged by offering a socio-economic perspective that increasingly discourages the use of illegal channels of migration as a source of income. Peacemaking and development of the entire Horn of Africa region can certainly ensure better living conditions for local populations and help stabilize - as I have also represented to the leaders of the two countries - the framework of international relations and migratory flows. During my visit, in particular to Addis Ababa, I also met the summits of the African Union - as you know it is based in that city - and I explicitly asked them to be mediators in order to increase the return agreements, which are being made bilaterally today, and to support the strategy we are cultivating in Europe for regulating and managing flows. With this in mind, I have invited the summits of the African Union to participate in the Palermo Conference on Libya, which - as you have already known - will be held next November. In this direction it is also necessary for the European Council to encourage that Africa-Europe alliance which President Junker himself mentioned in his last speech on the state of the Union in Strasbourg. Essentially, primary movements remain a priority for sustainable and lasting European management of migratory flows and secondary movements themselves. This concept will continue to be highlighted and reiterated with the other European leaders. We must avoid, in my opinion, the illusion that the regulations, and in particular the Dublin regulations, which concern the European asylum system, can solve the serious problems relating to primary movements and the protection of external borders. When we look at the part of the conclusions on combating trafficking in human beings and on the reform of the Common European Asylum System, I will call - as I did in June - for the fundamental principle of fair sharing of responsibilities, enshrined in Article 80 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. On this too we must consolidate that change of paradigm achieved at the European Council last June. As long as we do not receive concrete assurances that the preparation of this mechanism will begin, we will not accept a closed box accelerations on secondary movements. I immediately told the European leaders who care more about this part of the regulation on secondary movements. I am referring in particular to the reform of the Common European Asylum System, on which we continue to consider essential a package logic, linking the progress of all seven legislative instruments that make up it. I am also referring to the Commission's proposal for a European Border and Coast Guard which would cost EUR 11.3 billion. The latter proposal raises some concerns in the Government. I personally reserve the right to make an assessment both for its impact on national sovereignty and for its high costs. Italy, in fact, has already done much and almost always alone thanks to the exceptional commitment of women and men - I want here to remember and emphasize it - of the Navy and the Coast Guard. We want Europe's recognition to take place in fact and not only in the appreciations that have been dispensed with over time, and also recently, for protecting itself in recent years - I remember the very significant number of 688,000 landings since 2013 - a European border. We must be prepared in the new season of arrivals and continue to work for the stability and security of the Mediterranean. In this context, we also strongly support the ongoing political process in Libya, which is to be dedicated to the Conference already mentioned in Sicily, which will take place in Palermo on 12 and 13 November. We are committed to sitting around a table all the actors involved in the stabilisation of the country in support of the United Nations. We will continue to work to ensure that the positive results in reducing landings are consolidated in a multi-level European approach that ensures structural responses, the only ones that can give security to our citizens. With regard specifically to the Conference in Libya, we do not presume to obtain the resolution of all the problems by inviting all the main stakeholders to sit around a table in Palermo, but surely Italy - as it is in its ropes and tradition - is willing to promote this process of peace and stabilisation in the interests of the Libyan people themselves. Therefore, I am here to ask you to give me your support in order to advance in Brussels the commitment undertaken since the start of this Government's work. Turning to the issue of Brexit, I would like to remind you that the chief negotiator of the European Union Michel Barnier - I met him in Rome on 8 October - will speak to the European Council at 27 (in this case) to take stock of developments and difficulties, which you have also read in the newspapers, of the last few days. The 27 Heads of State and Government will assess the state of the art of negotiation with a view to the resumption of talks between the United Kingdom and the European Union and a possible agreement in November. Last Sunday, the negotiators of the United Kingdom and the European Union took note of the impossibility, at the moment, of reaching agreement on the Irish issue. It is a complex issue, in which the technical assumptions to avoid a physical frontier between the two Irish people are intertwined with important issues, as you know, in principle. Times are really tight. We will all have to work with common sense, without giving in to emotions and instinctive reactions, in order to avoid a failure of the negotiations that - we must recognize and say this - would be a leap into the void, with presumed negative effects for businesses and citizens. On the other hand, it is our duty to ensure an orderly withdrawal, according to ways that are clear and guarantee the protection of rights acquired by European citizens, as well as economic and financial stability for businesses. The final agreement must respect the will of the British people to leave the European Union and the fundamental principles of the European Union itself. The agreement on Brexit will have to ensure, also in concrete terms, the protection of rights acquired by European citizens, including the approximately 700,000 Italians resident in the United Kingdom, through simple and rapid procedures, with particular attention to the protection of the most vulnerable groups. Another central theme for Italy and for many European countries is the protection of geographical indications and rules of origin. Any agreement with the United Kingdom - on this I have made very clear with the representative and negotiator of the European Union, Barnier - must preserve and enhance this indispensable heritage of knowledge, traditions and economic opportunities. Once the terms of withdrawal have been agreed with an agreement that also regulates the complex issue of the Irish border, we will be able to work with the British Government to build a future economic and security partnership, in line with the deep links between London and the rest of the European continent. This is our main objective after the UK has left the European Union, which I hope will take place in clear and friendly terms, without tears. Only in a climate of solid friendship and mutual trust will we be able to find new ways of cooperation and build an economic and security relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom in line with the historical, cultural and political links between London, Italy and the rest of Europe. Even after Brexit, the United Kingdom will remain a European country, with values and challenges common to those of the Member States of the European Union. London will still be a key player in the global economy and the European security architecture. Moreover, it could not be otherwise for a country that is a member of the United Nations Security Council, the G7 and NATO. Italy will therefore continue to work for a partnership based on mobility, so that they can continue the fruitful economic exchanges between our citizens, to maintain a high exchange of trade, and on security, to face together in a more effective way the many challenges of our time. Let me turn to the subject of internal security. At the European Council we will also approve conclusions on internal security in the wake of the debate, which was already partially anticipated at the informal summit in Salzburg. On the fight against interference, including online, in the elections and on hybrid and cyber threats, we share with European partners, starting with the UK and the Netherlands, the strong concern about recent reports of cyber attacks. Compared to them, the Italian approach is inspired by the promotion of cooperative platforms and aims to combine the security and protection needs of citizens with respect for democracy and freedom of the network. We also believe that we have a duty to strengthen resilience, that is to say, the ability to equip ourselves, at national and European level, with appropriate prevention and resistance tools against possible cyber attacks, but also the ability to deter such attacks, with respect to which the problem of attribution, and therefore possible sanctions against the responsible suspects, remains very complex. We welcome the fact that the European Council is also giving impetus to the process of revising the European Civil Protection Mechanism. Italy considers in fact essential a coordinated and effective system of responses to both nuclear, biological, radiological and chemical threats and natural disasters. I would like to focus on the relationship between the European Union and Russia in international relations. The Council will offer a window of discussion on relations between the European Union and Russia, and this will be a new opportunity to establish, with European colleagues, how to consistently decline the approach that I define as double-track - that is, firmness, but combined with dialogue - towards Moscow, which remains an inescapable actor for the solution of the main international crises. I would remind you that on 24 October I will be in Moscow to meet Putin and, on the occasion of my visit, I will have the opportunity to discuss international and security issues with him. European policy in relations with Russia remains linked to the five principles agreed at 28 March 2016: sanctions for themselves only harm our businesses, which this Government intends to protect and support, and Russian civil society itself. In this context - already last June, to be honest - we expressed the need to pay close attention to this aspect, including through programmes to support small and medium-sized enterprises. With this in mind, as I will say to my fellow Europeans, we believe that we must continue to reason, but we must maintain the unity of the European Union's position in relations with Moscow. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the position I intend to represent in the European Parliament. I ask for your full support, in the firm conviction that this is the right way to bring to Europe also that genuine change that the citizens of our country ask us and expect. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u7	There is a bicameral delegation from the Indian Parliament, led by the Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Water Resources, Mr Arjun Ram Meghwal. [[Applause. The Assembly stands.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u8	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, President-in-Office of the Council, I think it is necessary to start with the outcome of last June's European Council, which coincided, moreover, with its debut on the European stage. The memory of this event is characterized by a main element: the contradiction, which is the result of the relationship between his triumphalist comments and their subsequent demolition blow-to-shot, emerged with the official reading of the documents of that meeting and of the background reported by his counterparts, who return the figure of the impiety of our representation in that international assembly. What happened at the end of June, however, is part of the perimeter of the modalities that characterize your government action and in fact has two faces: the first responds to propaganda and is always triumphalistic, the second instead concerns reality and is always a smear. Remember the blazing arms expanses of the 1930s of our country, a real triumph of Italian steel. Actually, but then it was bad and patched up cardboard. That June European Council, free from the sabotage of the usual hands that you see everywhere, did not bring any improvement compared to the shared management of migrants, as you say, if anything, a worrying step backwards, if I think of the introduction of the principle of voluntaryness that cancels the progress achieved at the previous Council in June 2015. But it's not enough. A further pole, the unanimity of the 27 Member States, has been placed for the procedure for revising the Dublin Regulation. It will then be enough just one Orban on duty to blow up any possibility of modification. It does not relieve me in this sense to remind myself that the League and Movimento 5 Stars already in November 2017 did even worse - if I may say so - before Orban, having voted not in favour of the proposal to revise that regulation and the policies related to the right of asylum. Therefore, Mr President, it is pointless to hide that a table is waiting for it which is not easy, because the Strasbourg Council will be a Council of right-wing issues for the future structure of the Union, where the exquisitely political aim of this body makes even more necessary the credibility and the ability to produce in that Assembly an effective synthesis of the interests of our country. A meeting where we are called to be responsible and credible and less innovative than how instead he has already wanted to show the minister Savona with the story of his story of the abundant million euros in the Swiss accounts. I was talking about a credibility that I hope we will soon stop dispersing into what is now a real hemorrhage that has been going on for months. You cannot continue to confuse the noise of the new Manzoni cries, Salvini's cries that guarantee you high visibility, with the loss of credibility that our country is suffering in so many, too many aspects, such as those of economic reputation, as collected by the judgments of different bodies of every order and grade, from international forerunners to the Parliamentary Budget Office, to that exquisitely political one with the use of incendiary tones that never conceal the insult to anyone who dares to object to the merits. Mr. President Conte, I'd like to be even clearer. The political choice at European level cannot take as a final date the flattening of opportunistic choices aimed only at the next election campaign for the renewal of the European Parliament. I say this because already last June this Government has bowed in an embarrassing way to the interests of the Visegrad group, which are objectively against the Italian ones and the aims of the Union. In fact, the Visegrad Group will continue not to take quotas of migrants and not to suffer sanctions for this. In other words, you are supporting your saboteurs, our saboteurs, as in a typical Stockholm syndrome. This is not only about migrants, but also about the most serious and worrying issue which concerns precisely the nature of this Union, which is democratic, based on the rule of law and respect for fundamental human rights. The political Europe that we know today and which we do not always like, because - as we well know - it needs to refine more democratic procedures, it has cost flesh and blood to Europeans, ashes and rubble to our continent. In this sense, Brexit also takes on a tone and value that we must take care of with the weight of history and its teaching. We must avoid a hard Brexit, not only because of the economic repercussions that would be burdened [[Recalls of the President]] - let me conclude, Mr President, one minute - on a scenario of slowing down world growth, which is already worrying in itself, but in order to safeguard the rights of Italians present on English territory, from the social, labour and health points of view. In fact, 3.5 million Europeans live on English territory and, among them, over half a million Italians. I say this because if the negotiations on Brexit seem to have found some convergence on the issues of rights, many other issues remain open and all to be resolved. One of these concerns Irish territory, which would become a border land again, in addition to the Strait of Gibraltar, between the United Kingdom and Europe, with a Republic of Ireland remaining under the hat of the European Union and a Northern Ireland which, on the contrary, would follow the fate of the United Kingdom. No one wants - I hope you too, Mr Conte - that in those areas there will be conflicts which today seem to have been overcome and which could soon be rekindled, on the basis of the negotiations on how to resolve the border issue and wanting to take account of the tension that already exists with regard to the different needs. On the one hand...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u10	Conclude, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u11	STEFANO (PD). ...not excessively rigid, for the reasons I mentioned, and on the other hand from the need to protect all our companies from the entry of non-European products, which from Northern Ireland could find a convenient access door. We in the Democratic Party ask you, President Conte, to continue the negotiations in the prime interest of Italian citizens and companies in our country, overcoming that ambiguity that has characterized your action so far. Finally, Mr President, a thought on security and the fight against terrorism. The security of the European Union must be declined in various ways, from physical, internal and external to the borders of Europe... PRESIDENT. - The debate is I do not have the habit of interrupting, Senator Stephen, but I would ask you to respect the times, because you have abundantly exceeded them, for more than three minutes. STEFANO (PD). I'm done. ...to the one that is labile and more easily permeable that characterizes the net. This is perhaps the most open and complex front of our democratic system, where we live a sort of vertical invasion, since the terrain of the confrontation takes on characters until the time of the unthought and unthinkable chronicle. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u12	I would ask you to respect the assigned times, because I do not like to interrupt when there is a speech but, because time is contingent, it would be polite to respect it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u13	He's enlisted to speak Senator Grasso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u14	President Conte, you are preparing to represent our country at the European Council of tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, and this will once again be an opportunity for this Government's active repentance with regard to its attitude towards Europe, especially on the sensitive issue of migration and security. In fact, it would be a good thing to convey to Europe a repentance on financial maneuver as well, I tell you with great frankness; the point in this case, since you mentioned it in your speech, is not so much to quantify the percentage of deficit that our country can produce, in the face of a complicated structural condition, but how to use debt. The latest news, still without indications of coverage, gave us the idea that you chose to use the maneuver for an always present election campaign rather than to improve, through useful investments and perspective, the conditions of growth and development of our country. But let us return to the agenda. We cannot forget that last June's statements, in which you spoke of victory in Europe, have been totally overturned by the Council's conclusions, which will now have to assess what has been done in recent months. Mr Conte, we would very much like you to remind your colleagues that the European Parliament has made a serious and sensible proposal. We must change the Dublin Rules of Procedure and we must do so now, strengthening the principle of solidarity and abolishing once and for all the principle of the first port, which has had very hard consequences for our country and for the political debate in Europe. It is necessary to distribute asylum seekers in all Member States according to pre-defined quotas and to reduce access to EU funds for those countries that do not comply with them. The way your government proposes is, in our view, wrong. Moreover, one of his deputy, who too often appears to be the man who tells her the line (when it should be the opposite), is politically allied with those who want to raise walls and barbed wire rather than changing the rules of the Union to achieve it fully and on new bases. In these weeks the figure of the League-5 Star Government is evident: to be strong with the weak, to support policies of exclusion of children children of foreigners from school canteens and aid for books, to dismantle a model of integration like Riace, and to be weak, very weak with the strong through flat tax and tax allowances. In our resolution you will find listed a series of measures aimed at managing with humanity and intelligence the phenomenon of migration. The most important is the immediate opening of humanitarian access corridors in Europe to ensure legal and controlled access channels, through the countries of transit, to refugees fleeing executions, persecutions, wars and conflicts, to put an end once and for all to massacres at sea and on land, and thus to eradicate human trafficking, including with visas and humanitarian missions. The other measure is to support a reform aimed at creating a real right of European asylum capable of overcoming the Dublin Rules of Procedure: precisely that measure against which his fellow government members voted. I'd like to add a comment. The Bossi-Fini law is the most criminal you can imagine. If you do not intend to repeal it, at least restore the decree flows for those who work, even for the real need of families and businesses. On the other hand, it is now clear that solving complex problems is not part of the government contract; on the contrary, the more uncomfortable situations are created, the more you will try to ride them, and this behavior has a name: it is called political cynicism and it is the furthest from a government culture you can imagine. Italy is showing them with small and great gestures that our people are much more attentive, sensitive and supportive than you would like. The fundraisers for the children of Lodi and for the commendable initiative of the Mediterranean ship are cutting down every precedent for quantity and speed of adhesion. Let us call them in a form that you can understand: these are the solutions of the people to the problems that the Government of change has no intention of addressing. (at 10:27 a.m.) (Following Grasso). On security issues, we ask you, among other things, for concrete commitments to deepen the revision of the European criminal framework on terrorism; measures to remove from criminal and terrorist organisations the tools necessary for their activities, such as access to financial resources, arms, the use of the Internet and counterfeit documents, as well as the improvement of information exchange systems between law enforcement authorities, police and criminal justice, as well as intelligence between Member States. Finally, a serious fight against money laundering and banking and tax havens. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am very sorry to note that that decree-law you called the Salvini decree (do you remember that? He took the pictures with the sign) and that you sell as security decree will get exactly the opposite effect. Moreover, it is already a practice for you to give good titles to measures that will not have a positive effect on real life. Finally, on the Union's external relations, how can we fail to see that the United States and Russia are moving in the same direction? Is it random? Trump exhumed the practice and policy of the American neo-conservative right, the most nationalist right, which during George Bush's first term openly spoke of a Euro-ominaccia. Trump's political and commercial tensions towards Europe can only meet Moscow's favor, thus crossing the historical aims of affirmation and Russian influence on the Balkans and the Baltic States. In order to achieve this, the European Union must break down and dissolve, and this is the common objective of Trump and Putin. Too many statements and actions of your government's supporters exalt both of them and their policies. On this too, your government appears to us on the wrong path. President Conte, every day a few more citizens and citizens realize the dangerous slope of anger, frustration and racism that our country is taking. We hope, out of political conviction, that you will not be fooled by the polls. Others, before her, made the same mistake. They have not been able to catch the growing malaise and history has punished them. It will not be on the rubble that your consent will grow. We invite you, therefore, to reflect on this while you are on your way to represent our country at the European Council. [[Applause from Senator Errani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u15	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u16	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, Europe is faced with one of the most important changes in its history: the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union. A painful decision, which will have profound repercussions, not only for the United Kingdom, but for the whole of the European Union. In fact, the United Kingdom plays a key role in Europe from a number of points of view, but above all in economic terms, with a turnover of around EUR 650 billion per year. The same thing for Italy, for which the United Kingdom represents the third country of export, with about 23 billion revenue each year. An important incitement. Changes between the two countries can also have serious employment repercussions. Therefore, that in these weeks, a short distance from the deadline for the conclusion of the agreements, an effective contribution, even from Italy, would be important. Instead, in this important debate on Brexit, the most important of the last sixty years in Europe, the Italian voice has not been there. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It is the sign that, not even five months after its establishment, President Conte, Italy in Europe is isolated and has very little credibility. In the discussion on Brexit, the yellow-green government seems to forget about the more than 700,000 Italians living and working in the United Kingdom and who are personally interested in the post-Brexit repercussions. Italians intended to test on their skin the effects of the success or not of the agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom. Their future, their lives and those of their loved ones are also at stake in this process, because their status as citizens, workers and students is at stake. For us in the Democratic Party it is clear, it has always been our political line. It is important to ensure that all rights granted to Community citizens in the United Kingdom are maintained, both in terms of work and training, in the field of health, in the political field, in the field of university and research, in everyday life. But what is your government's line, President Conte? The impression is that, beyond today's reassurances, these Italians care very little. On the contrary, they should be guaranteed certainties, while at the same time creating the conditions to allow the UK to leave Europe as traumatic as possible. An agreement can only be successful if it meets all the parties involved. At the same time, it is clear that the United Kingdom cannot be granted the same privileges as it had previously. Since the events of the last few hours have developed, it seems that no agreement can be reached, which could create negative consequences. Nevertheless, I do not think it is appropriate that Europe should now give in to pressure only for fear of consequences, because it is not clear at all how the upcoming developments in British domestic policy will be, already very turbulent in recent weeks; indeed, it is not excluded that others arrive at the government, with the possibility of completely new political scenarios and perhaps even a different outcome from the Brexit issue. Today, with your intervention, you made it clear that on European policies you and your Government lack the compass, because making promises and shooting offense on Twitter, as your ministers do, without being able to be heard in Brussels in the places that matter or without presenting themselves at all - as happened last week, for example, and was not the first time - is just the opposite of a serious and effective policy; therefore it is inevitable to return home empty-handed. That is what has basically happened to you, Mr President, at your first European Council on migration policies. We remember too well how it went: on that occasion too, he came here, promised the seas and mountains and told us that he wanted to bring the policy of hard fist to Brussels and force Europe to take responsibility for the refugees who have landed in Italy. As soon as he left the Council - only a few hours later - but despite his boasting far and wide, it was blatantly disproved, because not only did he not achieve objective results, but he even let go back to what we had laboriously conquered with our governments: he allowed the compulsory relocation quotas to be abolished in the different countries and that, in their place, there was an unnecessary voluntary nature of individual States, that is, a sound defeat for Italy, which could now be healed only through a modification of the Treaty of Dublin, in the form indicated by our governments at the time, reiterated by the vote of the European Parliament. We must overcome the concept of a first-come country: migrants must be spread over all European countries. This is our proposal, a solution that would in fact help Italy: but how, Mr President, can we pursue a policy of this kind, since the two parties of its majority, the League and the Movimento 5 Stars, voted against that vote in the European Parliament? How does he now propose the same measures in Europe? By the way, Mr President, you do not come in strong with the budget law, but you are even weaker, since you have reached an agreement on it tonight. It is a bunch of welfare measures and a scar, not only to all appeals at international level, but above all to the future of the younger generations in our country. That is why I wonder what chance it will have, during this Council, of achieving results for the benefit of Italy and the Italians. We in the Democratic Party are very concerned about the development of its action. We see how Italy's negotiating capacity in Europe has collapsed, which is serious, because it is the life and future of hundreds of thousands of men and women in the country and outside of it, for example in the United Kingdom. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u17	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with very sensitive and sensitive issues, which have long been debated over the last few months and years, which have often led to ideological oppositions, sometimes instrumental in the domestic political struggle. The issue of migratory pressure was probably addressed by the European Union late and only after the 2015 crisis. Since then, a number of measures have been adopted which have reduced overall flows and better controlled external borders, but these measures have not been applied in a homogeneous manner, nor could they have been, given the physical diversity between the different borders of the European Union, and this has created greater pressure on some countries, including ours, and less on others. The European Union has repeatedly said that it intends to continue with this policy of greater control of the external borders in order to contain illegal immigration on all routes, therefore both on the eastern and western Mediterranean and on the central Mediterranean, which is the one that concerns us most closely and which currently creates more concerns. In order to discourage trafficking in human beings in the Sahel, Libya, the Horn of Africa and the rest of the African continent, the European Union must support the activities of the Libyan Coast Guard, to which our country has given motorbikes to this very purpose, to promote voluntary humanitarian returns, but above all it must try to eliminate or limit the reasons that give rise to mass migrations, that is, conflicts, poverty, economic and social inequalities. These objectives, as we can see, are ambitious and radical, because it would be to promote the composition or cessation of decades of conflict, some of which were born for the exploitation of natural resources, and on the other hand it would be to undertake cooperation policies aimed at the socio-economic transformation of the African continent, on the basis of the principles and objectives defined by the African nations in their agenda 2063, in the key areas of education, health, infrastructure, innovation, good governance and women's emancipation. They are ambitious projects, which require a significant increase in cooperation policies in terms of quantity and quality, and consequently more funds will be needed, but also measures to create the conditions for increasing private investment, whether African or European. As a result, trade between Africa and Europe will increase. Ambitious projects, which we all hope will take shape as soon as possible and bear fruit in the shortest period of time, but unfortunately, while waiting for all this to happen (among other things, I have heard about these things since I was a boy) we need to deal with life in danger both at sea, in the desert, in the fields in Libya and in the rest of Africa. From this point of view, the European Union must and must do much more and, on the contrary, has often confined itself to denouncing rules of principle, to drawing up futuristic programmes that have left some countries more subject to migratory pressure, forced because of their geographical position to manage the reception of hundreds of thousands of human beings, of our brothers and sisters in need of care. In order not to displease the least inclined countries, the European Union has recently left the possibility to the Member States, on a voluntary basis, to participate in a joint programme whereby those who are saved under international law should be transferred to special centres to be established in all participating Member States, where after a rapid investigation activity it should be possible - this in the wish - to distinguish irregular migrants, who must be immediately returned, from persons in need of international protection or asylum, to whom the principle of solidarity would apply. If, however, participation in these programmes is not compulsory and if the Dublin Regulation is not amended, European solidarity remains more on paper than in fact and consequently the reception is carried out to a large extent by some countries, including ours, and little or little or nothing by others. In words, our external borders in the South are European borders, but in fact, or at least to date, they are Italian borders and it is up to us to manage them, with everything that comes about in terms of economic and social costs. On the other hand, the suffering and abuse to which many migrants are subjected is unacceptable to us, because they are fighting against European principles, with those of solidarity and with our dignity as men and women. Given that we are one of the founding countries of the Community first and then of the European Union, it must be our primary task to ensure that this trend is reversed and that all the Member States of the Union are therefore involved in the management of the borders of migratory flows. Everyone, no one excluded. You cannot be European and European when you have to receive the funds and then become nationalist when you have to help another European country and be human who are our brothers and sisters. Unfortunately, many mistakes have been made in the past and some are still repeated today. I am referring, for example, to the military intervention in Libya in 2011 that has destabilised that country, to which unfortunately Italy also participated, or to the ways of exploiting African resources by some European countries, which behave not as trading partners but almost as if the colonies still existed, sometimes trying to condition its socio-economic development and causing large pockets of poverty; this is one of the concauses at the origin of the migratory flows. This would be a long speech and so I come back to the current European immigration and internal security policies: criticizing them does not mean being Eurosceptic or worse anti-European. To propose the revision of treaties or regulations, to try to rewrite them taking into account what has happened in recent years, both positive and negative, does not mean to want the end of the European Union. The 5 Star Movement is not anti-European; on the contrary, we want to strengthen the Union, make it more cohesive, fairer and fairer. We do not want to go back; on the contrary, we want to move forward, we want to change things for the better. All this is about to happen; the forthcoming elections to the European Parliament will bring about a change in the current political situation and what has happened in Germany in recent days is just a prologue. You know, it is quite strange to be accused of anti-Europeanism simply by opposing European policies that have proved to be profoundly wrong, and this is true both in the area of managing migratory flows and, for example, in the economic field. One is not anti-European if one wants to improve things; it would be like saying that those who are against the current Italian Government are against the republican form or that those who wanted to change our Constitution wanted to destroy the Republican State and return to the monarchy. They would be and are laughable concepts, but when we talk about Europe, they suggest them to us as if they were incontrovertible truths. The exact opposite is true. Those who criticize certain choices, those who want to change policies, feel truly European and believe in the dream of a crippled Continent, as the founding fathers had thought, and demand institutions that are up to the task, that can interpret the needs of European citizens, who do not find themselves in Brussels or Strasbourg to perpetrate their power. Those who make these criticisms expect not to be mapped out by any European Commissioner who claims to teach us how to vote (a serious matter). Those who believe in the European dream and want more Europe do not want to have to deal only with bureaucrats, but want democratic, efficient and careful institutions where the will of the people is kept in the utmost consideration. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u20	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are a patriotic, responsible and constructive force which has acted as such in recent months, all the more so on matters of European, foreign and security policy. We must note, however, that you and your colleagues in the majority have so far used this tone, which is almost half the same. In the face of the triumphant declarations, I would say, unfortunately demagogic and unfounded, that you did immediately after the European Council meeting, as if you had won World War III. It has been four months and then we start in a concrete way and, I hope, you tell us how the European and Italian paradigm has changed in these four months. How? In what way has the paradigm changed? What are the changes that have taken place in these four months without us realizing it? For example, the points approved at the European Council included greater efforts for the new Mediterranean route, more voluntary returns and agreements with countries of departure and transit. What agreements have been made in these four months? Reunions have increased and how much? Give us some data on these aspects. Has Italy made new agreements? Has Italy increased returns? Secondly, with regard to regional landing platforms and supervised centres in the Member States, although on a voluntary basis, let us know in these four months who has implemented regional landing platforms and supervised centres in the Member States among the European countries. Will you explain to us whether Italy has done so; otherwise how does it appear at European level, after four months, if Italy first does not make new return agreements, if Italy first does not increase returns, if Italy first does not implement regional landing platforms and supervised centres? How can he blame others for not changing pace if we don't change step? As far as the funds are concerned, we are really asking you to have return funds charged to the European Union at least as much as the European Union has given Turkey to block the eastern front. Senator Stefano, who just before appointed some countries of Central and Eastern Europe that have protected the eastern border of Europe, as figures and facts show, saying that they do not engage as much in the Mediterranean border, perhaps he should appoint, instead, and declare - I also say this to the colleague of the 5 Stars - the country that sabotaged - indeed - the Mediterranean and that acts every day to blow up every agreement on Libya; the country that exploits not the former colonies but the African colonies, for example, beating currency for them. Do we want to call by name and surname the country that transfers its migrants across the border at night, as happened a few days ago, violating any agreement or are we afraid to quote France? [[Applause from the FdI Group]] And do we cling to Hungary, which does its duty instead? I said that on the migrant front, as it should be. About Libya and Africa, we approach the Palermo Conference on 12 and 13 November. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have you appointed the new ambassador to Libya or are you still in Italy? Did you mention the new top secret services or are they still transitional? How does this Conference address without first resolving our problems in relations with Libya and security? Well, let us give you a suggestion: you were in the Horn of Africa and I think it is important for Italy to immediately activate the European plan for external investment, which is really necessary but has not yet been implemented. Above all, I would advise you to ask the European Union to implement the economic partnership agreement with the countries of the Horn of Africa, in order to allow access to the market, trade and rules of origin. What the Horn of Africa needs - including the main source of immigration - is to make full use of the peace process. Italy can act, the European Union can act and we expect it to do so. Finally, I add two aspects: Brexit and Russia. I believe that you, the Italian Government and the majority forces should not address the issue of Brexit from an ideological point of view but from the point of view of Italian interests. At this moment the first Italian interest is that in the withdrawal agreement - and I stress withdrawal agreement - and not in the subsequent trade agreement that who knows when it will see the light, the question of principle of the recognition of geographical indications without which the UK market is affected, one of the first in the world, to our made in Italy. Minister Centinario should know this: in the state it is not so, in the state in the agreement of withdrawal signed or however discussed until now, there are not the necessary recognitions of geographical indications. We ask that the Government state explicitly - at this stage not later, when it will be impossible to recover - in the trade agreement that we will not sign any withdrawal agreement, we will not give our consent if in this document there will be no recognition of the geographical indication, otherwise you have betrayed the Italian national interests in order to subordinate them to a declamation of ideological principle. Finally, I come to Russia. Mr President, you said very different words here than those contained in the motion adopted, with your consent, at the meeting of the last European Council: one thing is what has been approved here, another is what you did at the European Council. The motion tabled and approved by the majority called for the immediate cessation of the economic sanctions imposed on Russia in the European Council because the extension of the sanctions would only have the effect of widening the already heavy negative repercussions on our companies. You use the words "immediate termination" and you have approved it: it is in the Government contract. Why, four months ago, did you not, on the other hand, follow the mandate given to you by Parliament, confirming the automatic extension of sanctions against Russia? Why? What is the position with regard to the new and more serious sanctions against Russia that the American Congress is about to approve? We propose ourselves "reasoning" or, how will Salvini tomorrow or her at the end of October "promising"? Unfortunately, the words do not correspond to the facts. We believe that there is a Government of change - of change for real - if the words correspond to the facts and if the commitments correspond to the actions. Otherwise, when you change the facts with respect to words you betray. This is not the Government of change: in this matter it is becoming the Government of betrayal. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Aimi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u22	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the next few days' European Council will address issues that have been going on for years, first and foremost - and we have heard this in this House too - immigration will be discussed. Yesterday we had confirmation of how France solves the problem of so-called secondary movements to be done within the Union: it loaded two migrants and quietly brought them back to Italy, as if they were Italians, as if an absolutely wrong Regulation, that of Dublin, could change the way of life of a European Union, whose mechanism of cohesion creaks, unfortunately, more and more. President Conte, the Rules of Procedure must be amended because Europe must share with Italy, not the budgetary rules, but also the weight of this extraordinary epochal phenomenon. President Conte, this is the first mandate you will have to face in the coming days in Brussels. Yesterday's rejection in Claviere, in Val di Susa, reminds us that we have a very strong argument to put pressure on Europe and, at the same time, a huge problem to solve in Italy. It is another topic for the Government that concerns the Val di Susa, where - I would like to remind the representatives of the Executive incidentally - there is a very important and strategic work for Italy, for which considerable resources have already been spent, concerning relations with France and the movements of goods to and from Europe, firm incomprehensible for the vetoes of a member of this Government. Some European countries want to regulate in a more restrictive way the secondary movements of migrants but, President Conte, it is Italy that is located on its territory 630,000 migrants, who have no title to remain and who, therefore, are to be considered to all intents and purposes clandestine. This is a number that will increase, because there are still more than a hundred thousand asylum applications to be examined and we already know that most of them - 90% at least - will not be accepted. Thanks also to that part of the centre-right programme which provided for the abolition of humanitarian protection, now appropriately included in the so-called security decree, perhaps we can have some more elements of positive evaluation. An institute, that of humanitarian protection, which does not exist in the rest of Europe and, therefore, is not recognized for the purposes of the secondary movements of those who are not considered to be in need of asylum: a genuine army of people who come to Italy, as the southern border of Europe. Therefore, if Europe exists, it cannot fail to take on a problem that is within its own borders, after it has failed to monitor it. The borders must be respected. By the way, we wonder, President Conte, if the borders still exist. If the answer is yes, these boundaries must be guaranteed and defended. Before approving any provision requiring Italy to take back migrants from France, Austria, Germany or other countries of Northern Europe, it is necessary to resolve this, which is a huge social problem. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Moreover, in the last few days we have seen how the much praised model Riace has completely and miserably failed. Tell me which of the 8,000 mayors in Italy wouldn't want to have 1,050 euros for each of their inhabitants, for their elderly, for the disabled, for the children? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] In recent days we have seen how the real impact on our economy has resulted in a weight for the welfare due to immigration. Whoever said and still continues to say and write that migrants pay our pensions has been blatantly disproved. President Conte, migrants do not pay our pensions because they are working figures with low social frameworks and, therefore, pay non-solving contributions for the management of the finances of our pension institution. But not only that, the fact that they have very low contributions and incomes (also because they often accept part of the wage in black) makes them irresponsibly surpass the Italians in all rankings. Migrants are among the first in popular homes and social services and enjoy exemptions to which the poorest Italians cannot access. Is this social justice? That is what we are asking for, Mr President. We are faced with a badly constructed welfare system, which has sacrificed local authorities to the public finance maneuvers of past years with cuts that are no longer admissible. In fact, if the welfare system were to correspond to the taxes paid, for example in the Lodi case we would not have to say, as someone did, that they all pay. It had to be said that you don't pay anyone, neither the Italians, nor the foreigners if they are regular and live permanently in Italy and have families. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] But first the Italians, now that we have seen the maneuver for 2019, we say so. The kindergartens are not there and the kindergartens discharge part of the burden on the families. These are the first interventions that a serious government should have put in place and thrown them in the face of Europe. An executive who wanted to applaud Europe, but even before the Italians said: we are working to give money back to the Italian municipalities so that families do not have to pay anything until the compulsory school. Instead, citizenship income is now introduced, a measure that moves in the beehive of a welfare that we consider dangerous for a country that, on the contrary, would need work, aid to businesses and national production. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] First our municipalities, first the services rendered to our communities, first the Italians. The South also has a mountain of resources: more than 50 billion coming from Europe are still because the projects that are presented are mostly based on current expenditure and, therefore, are not accepted by the European Union. Here, Mr Conte, the issues that must be brought to Europe are those relating to the sharing of a gigantic problem, that of the accommodation of 630,000 people, which Europe will also have to deal with. We therefore need a serious, strong and truly shared European return plan on an economic and organisational level, accompanied by an important European Union presence in Africa, in countries where most migrants from that continent come from and come to Italy. We say this well in our motion for a resolution: China has so far invested EUR 125 billion in Africa; another EUR 60 billion is expected over the next three years through credit lines, zero-rate aid and loans, development funds, and import financing in Africa. The Europe that faces the Mediterranean cannot wait, President, to be overcome by other economies when Africa is at hand and when the help of that continent can cost less than the greater burdens incurred so far to cope with the arrival and reception of migrants. Africa can be a gigantic opportunity, but economic relations must be fruitful, not trafficking in human beings. If we think that last year almost EUR 5 billion were placed in the Italian budget alone, we can imagine how best these economic resources would be used if they were put together with those of the other Member States of Europe. In short, President Conte, another key to solving the problem of Africa and the people who run away, very often in search of better living conditions, and to put in place a serious investment plan for Africa. We, thanks to President Tajani, have called it a great, gigantic Marshall plan. But, please, not one of those Junker plans, with absurd and achievable multipliers that provide a leverage of 10-11 times higher than the amounts actually allocated.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u23	Conclude, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u24	AIMI (FI-BP). I should like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that there are many problems in the field, and we ask you, Mr Conte, to bring these requests to Europe and to invite European leaders to the Palermo Conference with a constructive and collaborative spirit, the one that Forza Italia has put on the ground with its motion for a resolution, dictated by a strong sense of responsibility and love for his homeland. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u25	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u26	Mr President, the issues on the agenda of the European Council, from migration to internal security, external relations, Brexit and the problems of economic and monetary union, will give our citizens the idea of what Europe we are defending. The international and economic scenario in which this Council takes place is certainly conditioned by new uncertainties, with the spread of protectionist policies, starting from the United States, with an economic recovery that is struggling to assert itself. However, within this framework, Europe remains the largest single market in the world, the world's largest trading power on a global scale, the first donor of humanitarian aid and development aid. Europe is the largest territory led by democracies. For this reason, we believe that the European Union cannot give up playing a central role in the world and in a context of developing geopolitics. That Europe, then, should return to Europe in the international framework, but also in the process of internal integration. Over this horizon, in recent years Italy has set itself in the front row in the battle for the democratization of governance and for the substantial modification of austerity policies, managing to obtain a significant flexibility, not only for the benefit of Italy but of all the member countries, in support of investments, also to reverse that recessionary cycle of the economy of which we have just been able to appreciate the effects. On the contrary, your own economic manoeuvre seems to be a challenge to the European institutions, an attempt to reject the accounts of our country that risks weakening the credibility of Italy itself. In the same direction are the conclusions of the June European Council, which weakened and frustrated as a whole what had been carried out to make the relocations of migrants mandatory. Similarly, you have not supported the revision of the Dublin Regulation. You stood alongside the Visegrád countries against the interests of our country at the recent informal summit in Salzburg, against the proposal to strengthen the border guard to save the Schengen agreement, strengthening Frontex and the right to European asylum. You can no longer invoke Europe, but work for less Europe. What, then, is the horizon to which you are leading? We want a Europe of rights, which can protect, which guarantees greater internal and external security, but also protection and social security, including - and we agree on this - European instruments to combat regional inequalities and disparities, as provided for in the European social pillar. So let us think of a political project for Europe that conditions the economic dimension; a Europe that, after sixty years of peace and development, can be close to those fears that also characterize the generation of my son. Let us therefore move towards the European dimension the border of these demands for sustainable development, attentive to climate change, internal and external security, including the protection of Europe's cultural and identity richness in order to safeguard our liberal democracies and against the new forces of sovereign and nationalist disintegration. You are creating the conditions for divorce from Europe. Europe cannot be the scapegoat for your failures. You're taking us off course, taking responsibility for it. For our part, no contrary wind will make us change the horizon towards that political Europe, of the peoples and of democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u27	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u28	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, illustrious members of the Government, my fellow senators, I believe that no one in this House has particular sympathy for the European Union as it is; we certainly do not have it at Forza Italia. I have a career as a journalist behind me and as a journalist I have always criticized the European Union, when it was still fashionable to say "Europeanist" and when, among the peoples of Europe, the Italian one was the most pro-European of all. To open my eyes was the President emeritus Francesco Cossiga, who one day (we were still far from the beginning of the economic crisis) told me that if the European institutions had been taken as they were and transplanted into the constitutional structure of any of the Member States, the citizens of that State would go down to the streets to protest and, if the protests had not achieved results, would have gone up to the mountains. There is a clear problem of the democratic legitimacy of the European institutions. It is a problem of lack of identity, nature and political vision, and it is not a coincidence, but a choice. Jean Monnet, who of the united Europe was the great and enlightened architect, in the fifties noted on his diaries that Europe was to be born without the knowledge of the peoples. It is clear that something that is born without the knowledge of the peoples has neither or can have political substance: it works as long as things are good, but in the first twenty of crisis it shows the rope, its weakness. Here we go, we've been here for several years. However, the cure to this disease is not the invective, it is not the "braised", it is not the muscular performance. Recent history has taught us that governments that have tried to go this way have not made national interest. The cure for this disease is called "political" and it is that policy that you rightly blame Europe as a great absentee, which is also absent from the ranks of your government. Unfortunately you are similar to your opponents: you cannot have an identity, a culture, political roots and a vision of the country's development and this weakens the national interest. You are making the most classic of mistakes, what in military strategy manuals is referred to as the first of the mistakes not to be made: you are fighting a war on two fronts. Italy has two major problems at this time: immigration and the economy, understood as a lack of development, hence a lack of job creation. The solution to both these problems depends on the sharing of the European Union and European partners, but you have declared war on both fronts. I fear this puts Italy in the condition of the donkey of Buridano: there is a serious risk that you will not achieve any results, neither on the immigration front, nor on the public accounts and the possible development of the country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Your maneuver is emblematic of this vice of origin that you carry with you: lacks political vision. The problem is not 2.4 percent deficit. All right, it has costs; we are already paying these costs and we will probably continue to pay them in terms of increasing the cost of money and this will fall on our small and medium-sized companies, but we can also accept to bear those costs, because of a maneuver that promotes economic development. But this is not the case: yours is a purely electoral maneuver, a patchwork of measures that have nothing to do with national interest. There's a pardon called fiscal peace. You insist on calling flat tax what is not a flat tax, but it is simply an extension of the flat rate scheme for VAT consignments. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It's not a flat tax: the rates are three, so stop calling it flat tax, because it has nothing to do with what was written in the center-right program. The investments are 3 billion: no one can reasonably think that with 3 billion the economy will start up again and no one can reasonably think that the economy will start up again with a forceful withdrawal in the pockets of pensioners, an expropriation proletarian of those pensions that you yourself rightly said - until yesterday and until before taking on government responsibility - that served not only to maintain the pensioner, but also to keep the children and grandchildren of the retired, affected by the crisis. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This is a damage to the national interest, due to the lack of political vision that distinguishes you (and which you blame on the European Union instead). The previous European Council, as is unfortunately well known, ended with a failure. You felt obliged to bluff, encamping results that, clearly, you have not achieved. Nothing has changed since then; this too should serve as a lesson to you. True, as an important economist said, human species are the only ones who never learn anything from their mistakes; but there is a limit to perseverance. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] By continuing to threaten and scream at the moon, you didn't get anything! The Dublin Regulation is still there, secondary movements are not yet conditioned by readmission agreements, the southern border of Europe is still only the southern border of Italy, Europe as a community does not exist and does not take on the problems. Then stop yelling, stop looking for enemies, stop pointing at scapegoats and guilty: indicate solutions, make politics. You see, President, we at Forza Italia have not since today, but we have always had in our hearts categories such as Nation, national interest, State, Homeland; we have not improvised ourselves on this front. We were always moved in front of the tricolor waving and never vile. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And then it is natural for us to be at the side of a government, any government, which should take national interest as its compass and try to pursue this objective with realism, because realism is the only method of good politics. This is not the case, unfortunately; this is not the case. You come out of reality, you live in a virtual reality, conditioned by social; you live in an eternal present, you have no prospect of the future and, in doing so, you harm the national interest. The supplication, then, is: for the sake of the Fatherland, get out of this mechanism and abandon the obsession of consent. You have so much consent, so much; use it and put it to good use, make choices in the interest of the country! Consensus is not an end, it is a means of solving concrete problems. Get out of the obsession of consensus and make politics, because this is the only way to stand up in a credible way to a European Union that has logics of reason, which are then the same logic as yours, the logic of this economic maneuver. Get out of the obsession of consensus, make politics. This means just one word: take on your responsibilities. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u29	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Liceo Scientifico (Scientist Lyceum) (Vito Volterra) in Fabriano, in the province of Ancona, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u30	Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council for listening to the contributions that this branch of Parliament makes to the Government on the eve of each European Council. It may seem obvious to you, Mr Conte, but not to us: in so many years - too many - the Presidents of the Council carried out their report, got up and left. I thank you and your Government for their attention and respect for Parliament. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Because your attention makes this appointment less ritual and it becomes challenging for us too to give you the best comments on a broad and articulated agenda, which you have perfectly illustrated before, towards a real, sustainable and humanitarian European strategy on the migratory wave that hits the Mediterranean border. The European border needs European protection, shared and solidarity, like it or not like it to countries like France that after the blockade of its borders a few months ago - let us all remember - is now discovered even in flagrant cunning. And I hope that your government will do justice to this country by asking France to respond to these mischiefs. Behaviors like these, in fact, highlight the need to review and re-examine the rules of Frontex's mandates and operations and the outdated forecasts of Dublin, in order to develop effective partnership policies that, in our view, concentrate all the Union's possible resources precisely in that area of the Mediterranean until the humanitarian emergency, which too often turns into a humanitarian tragedy, is overcome. But from a careful reading of the Rules of Procedure, which is being approved precisely these days, it is noted that it provides for resources scattered throughout the globe, even dedicated to relations between the European Union and areas such as the Caribbean or overseas territories - just to remain on the French issue - that we all know what remains of their great colonialist, already punctually mentioned by my colleague Urso. We allow ourselves to point out the anachronism of 1.5 billion euros allocated in that area, that is from the parts of Guadalupe, when to our country, in order to face the migratory emergency, Europe has allocated less than 100 million euros, compared to the 5 billion euros that Italy spends every year to replace Europe. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] It is a backwards subsidiarity, Mr President, that we no longer accept. Recently, Commissioner Oettinger explained to us the financial planning framework, and he had to admit that after Brexit, about which you spoke, he needed additional resources from the Member States and countries, from all sides, also to pay for a bureaucracy, the European bureaucracy, which weighs up to 9 billion euros, which are not exactly rude. But we ask you instead to defend the CAP and not to defend the 9 billion of the European bureaucracy. Or, to return to the great immigration emergency, we could propose the use of those resources, so competent and qualified, committed to measuring zucchini or forcing you to sell off our financial sufferings like our companies, to help instead the unfortunate populations on the other side of the Mediterranean or sub-Saharan Africa or countries such as Nigeria that, despite great wealth, exports human capital for the most violent criminal organizations. Is it possible to postpone, as you mentioned earlier, a major aid and assistance plan for those countries and to prevent Europe from becoming further destabilised? We believe that we can no longer wait, and that, instead of zucchini, instead of the Caribbean, everything must now be concentrated in the Mediterranean, which is the frontier of Europe. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] We are the ones who have paid a very high price over the last few years. But let me give some thought to what you are going to do in preparation for the next summit in December, one of the last, Mr President, of this Europe that is about to end, on the eve of the elections to the next European Parliament. You will talk about institutional structure and governance, we hope of politeia, as Minister Savona wishes, and we with him! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] You see, we are dealing with a regulatory framework dominated by the input compulsed by the crises generated by financial speculation, but which should take up the thread of legal analysis - and I know I speak to an expert - so as not to betray or, worse, see the constitutionality of the functioning of the European Union succumb. In this legal context, which has not been resolved by Nice and even less by Lisbon, it has been suggested that accession to the single currency was capable of guaranteeing benefits for all: from States to citizens, from the reduction of interest rates to the benefits of the internal market, to price stability. That the matter was hostile to a rigorous legal analysis had already taken place at the first major dispute before the Court of Justice. In its judgment on the 2004 Stability Pact, the Court is in great difficulty in framing, according to legal frameworks, an eminently political issue, such as the excessive deficit procedure of two important Member States such as France and Germany. I can only recall that France, which was later involved in the actual infringement procedures for excess deficits, has remained there for nine long years, leaving it only in May of this year. It's very recent history, it's news: the chronicle of a cross-eyed Europe, because this shows that the rules are interpreted or applied according to the political sympathies and that there are - alas - no tables of the law, but only eccentric political decisions. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Can we still continue on the road to European construction with our eyes cross-eyed? Or rather fight to find a correct, broad view that brings Europe back to honouring the principles for which it was born: development, growth, cohesion, inclusion and social justice, to strengthen democracies and peace, the very precious good that Europe has guaranteed us so far? The Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group, Mr. President, intends to support, together with allies, the choices of government that go and go in the direction of growth, in Italy and in Europe. But to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, let us entrust the most difficult task: to persuade other countries to join in a renewed alliance for the ultimate rescue of Europe, made moribund by wrong medicines, sterile calculations and rules that have increased gaps and inequalities, fragility and fear of tomorrow. But Italy is a founding country and must be refounder with new alliances. Mr Conte, allow me to give you, in conclusion, a question to be asked to the President of the Juncker Commission, whom I am sure you will meet (sure, before you go to be a consultant in some large business bank or hedge fund). [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] The question is this: how does the EU's founding treaties reconcile the fact that the average per capita income of the Member States is about EUR 30,000 (and ours is exactly the average) while that of its country, Luxembourg, is EUR 121,000 per capita (repeat, EUR 121,000 per capita)? And that tax dumping granted to Luxembourg, again by the squint, is just the last of so many squints. And then, these gentlemen, who wish to teach the markets to the Italians who do not vote as they please, urgently need a pair of glasses, to correct all that strabismo and also to help them to read well our budget maneuver, necessary to remedy the damage they produce to our economy and to save this sick Europe, distracted many times and too many times cynical. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u32	Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u33	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, good morning. Thank you, too, for staying here with us. I see that you have not taken a single note: I envy you very much, because, after all the things I have heard in this House today, I have filled almost five or six sheets. I hope you remember everything we have said to you and do not just go with your point of view, otherwise it would be quite useless to have a day here. My mom used to say, "It's useless for you to be studying eight hours if you take four when you're questioned. I would not want the same thing to happen to her when she goes to the European Council. Having said that, Mr President, I am trying to anchor today's debate on what is happening on the ground. I do not know, perhaps it will be the experience of mayor or entrepreneur, but I note that Italian citizens are very concerned about what is happening. The topics on the agenda are immigration, the issue of Brexit and Ireland, banks and economic maneuvering; all this, believe me, has a significant impact on the credibility of our country, but not on its Government, there would be more: I believe that the government in office must be supported anyway; then, we can make the necessary changes, bring our own opinions and points of view, try to articulate decisions of the Government according to the origins of each of us and of the Group of belonging, to which it is obliged to give voice, of course. In the case of Forza Italia, we have always considered a number of issues, such as immigration. On 28 June, by the Italian Government, the Italian Government asked to start the return and block departures, but we did not get positive feedback on this. And again, I give you a news: perhaps from the top of the scrounge of Palazzo Chigi we do not notice it, but in the parking lots of our cities, in many municipalities of Italy, there are still the abusive sellers and people who harass the ladies and gentlemen or who try to tear the wallet to those who do not give them a euro when parking their car. And still, unfortunately, the principle remains that repatriation is not done and why? Why don't we go and deal with the North African countries - and not only, but the whole African continent - of reciprocal agreements to welcome or receive back the people who have come here in an abusive way. We are not talking about the question of companies: perhaps few have noticed it, but this year tourism - to which almost 12% of gross domestic product in Italy is linked - has suffered a significant and important decline, particularly from the countries of Northern Europe. Even from the point of view of the activity of securities and real estate transactions - and I am not talking about government bonds or anything like that - Italy has stopped. Why does construction still have a hard time leaving? Why are the investments from abroad, to which we were accustomed a few years ago, no longer arriving? Or rather, why have they stopped for a long time and not depart? What are the reasons? I make a trivial argument: if I were a German, French, American or Russian investor - and I will also get to Russia - and decided to make an investment in a European country, I would find all the confusion there is tiring. I have esteem for him and I understand the difficulty of living within such a composite majority and being in the middle of it, but I invite him to limit very much the statements of his Ministers, particularly those who have important functions of direction, especially on the economic aspect, because, every time they open their mouths, some investors run away or if someone could decide to come and look at Italy with interest, one is careful to do so. Try to have a single voice: put a rule to the Council of Ministers and it is you alone who gives directions, because it seems to me the most moderate of the group, which can give a single voice. From this point of view, therefore, investors find it hard to look at us with interest, and I fully understand that because if I had to do this kind of activity, I would probably do the same thing. I shall conclude, Mr President. I heard two statements from my colleagues, the first one I remembered earlier, Senator Bonfrisco who thanked you for being here. 11.35 a.m. (Following MALLEGNI). Unfortunately - and I say this pro-Parliament - this does not always happen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and I would ask you to tell your ministers that when I am here and when Parliament talks about issues relating to the Government, in the relationship between the Government and Parliament, they must remain and be present as you do, according to the example you give today and not go out after they have made their speech, because unfortunately if the President of the Council remains today, many others are leaving. Someone gets dragged away, without wanting to make the parody of Minister Tria, who lately is dragged away anywhere or is turned off the microphone because maybe he has something more to say than he could say. And I am very sorry, because we could probably have a more frank and constructive debate in the exclusive interest of the nation, those businesses and those citizens who look at us with concern. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Licheri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u35	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the memory of 5 June is still fresh when you came to this House to ask for trust in your Government. We remember everything about that day: we remember his emotional breath, we remember the electric atmosphere of a moment dressed in an exceptional novelty, because for the first time in Europe two mass political forces combined with each other by abandoning the old scheme of ideological opposition, to create a contract of modernization. Two different cultures decided to collaborate and from this collaboration was born an Italian challenge, a challenge to cybercrime, of which you, President, spoke to international crime, a challenge to the immigration business, a challenge to the wounds of a deflagrating crisis that unregulated finance has made endless. So, when you came that day, along with our trust, we knew that difficult days would come for you, because the declarations of war had already been handed over to you, if you remember, Mr President. It was said: "The markets will teach the Italians how to vote". Having said that, because that was the case and I am not hiding it, Mr President, that last week in this House some of us had the opportunity to fall into a vent saying: If governments and laws make them rating agencies in this country, then we get up and leave. It was a rash. Don't worry, ma'am. It was the outburst of those who fight every day in this House for parliamentary sovereignty, but I say to you, Mr President, that you can also tell the gentlemen of the European Council that whatever the pressure comes, whatever the interference, whatever the pressure we should receive, there will not be one of us who will rise from the gap to leave the field to the dictatorship of algorithms. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Because we're different. We want to be different because we practice a policy that somehow is the ability to imagine the future, creating the conditions for this to happen. We want you to bring that to Brussels: the strength of reason and ideas must prevail over numbers and percentages. The few minutes I have left, I will not use them to talk to you about numbers or percentages, but to talk about human lives, such as those that have also been saved this summer by our armed forces, the Navy, the Coast Guard, but also by the mayors and volunteers to whom this Assembly cannot spare a thank you for everything they are doing. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There is no doubt, however, that, as has been said this morning, the principle of the first port State must be overcome. Some people wondered what we have done from this point of view: we have done so much, because from the point of view of national legislation, we have finally rationalised, we have rearranged that intricate jungle that was the area of requests for protection and we have done so in accordance with the spirit of the Constitution. We have given a legal answer, dear colleague of Forza Italia, to that fake perbenism that washes its conscience collecting these unfortunates from the sea, whose ethical duty of rescue, however, stopped when these beings were landed in an Italian port. Then, on the mainland, life, destiny, fate, the future of these unfortunates stopped being a political affair because it became a business of the 'ndrangheta, because it became a business of the capital mafia. This is the truth and all this will never happen again! [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Mr President, make sure that in Palermo the Mediterranean becomes and returns to being the crossroads of European peace and that Europe does not close its narrow borders, with the hope that it will be able to curb an immigrant phenomenon, which is unfortunately ineluctable. In Africa, by 2030, there will be 750 million young people under the age of eighteen, which is why I smiled bitterly listening to my colleague Renzi say that the migrant emergency is over, that the numbers have returned to normal and that the government is making migratory flows a false problem. Gentlemen, after plundering the African continent and concentrating all the wealth in Europe, these 750 million young people will migrate to the North, because it pushes them what is the oldest force on earth: the strength of survival! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The migratory phenomenon is an inevitable fact and we have a duty to ask that the principle of the first port State be overcome, but we must ask it all together in this House, if we really want to stop looking at the newspaper, the contingent, if we really try to see in which direction the facts are evolving, because this is the policy that allows you to remain connected to reality, society and history. If there really is a Schengen Europe, as we all say in words, you, Mr President, must find a way to coagulate around you an opinion of thought that can actually shift the criterion of the country of first arrival. Two very brief considerations, one on the euro summit that awaits you in December and one on Brexit. From this point of view, the document on Politeia by Minister Savona and our resolution today suggest valid solutions for more effective governance. However, there is no doubt that European recipes, which have given us through the policies of abolishing social rights, austerity and poverty, have been a failure. And so, if years and years of restrictive policies have not prevented the raising of Italian public debt, which has grown substantially continuously, what can make us think that continuing in this direction is a good solution? Ask this question to the gentlemen of Brussels and you will see that it will only get silences and shoulder straps. Brussels, yes, Brussels: someone asked you with which alliances Italy intends to go up to the European Council. With what alliances? Those who demand and those who speak today of alliances show that they do not have the current European political framework clear. Gentlemen, Europe as you remember it no longer exists. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-Pd'Az groups]] Europe today is a community imbued with liveliness and selfishness. The states of the Visegrád group, of which I heard this morning, do not have an alternative political idea, they are united only by the terror of being again invaded from the east and they think they can curb this phenomenon by building those same walls that they had built in 1600. It's all gone, as they say; the patterns are gone, the alliances are gone, the understandings are gone, and you know why? Because this Europe is not useful to anyone, and that is why the British have gone away, that is precisely why: because this Europe of Greece sold out at auction, the tax dumping of the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg, this Europe of the record surplus of the German trade balance, is of no interest to anyone. It's not useful for anyone. That is why, rather than talking about alliances - and I am about to conclude, Mr President - we need, as I have heard, a re-foundation plan. We all need a design speech to make Europe more equitable, more supportive, closer to the people. And it is in this constructive key that Italy will be able to assert its intellectual figure, its historical memory, its European roots. In fact, just as our Fathers did in Rome sixty years ago, in 1957, we are ready again to sit around a table to design the new European institutional architecture. Say, President, that everything has begun in this city and that in this city we can start again, because in this city Altiero Spinelli was born and died, who once said: The way forward is not easy or safe, but it must be traveled and it will be. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u36	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I communicate that the following motions for resolutions have been tabled: No 1, by Senators Lorefice, Pucciarelli and other Senators, No 2, Senator Marcucci and other Senators, No 3, Senator De Petris and other Senators, No 4, Senator Ciriani and other Senators, No 5, Senator Urso and other Senators, and No 6, Senator Bernini and other Senators, whose texts are distributed. I call on the representative of the Government, Mr Fraccaro, to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u37	Mr President, I am in favour of the motion for a resolution No 1. I am against all the other proposals.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u38	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u41	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are pleased that you have stressed the importance of an Italy within the European Union, but your words must also be followed by the facts. We agree with the President of the Republic: let us lower our voices with Europe, because insults and insults only create embarrassment. The territories it represents in this Group believe in Europe, because they have felt on their skin the weight and pain of walls and borders. We are Europeans because we believe that this is the only way to count something in the global world and, above all, we are convinced that only a united Europe will guarantee us peace and well-being, also for the future. Offenses are of no use, as demonstrated by what happened in June, when, with an incomprehensible strategy, Italy made a gift to the countries of Visegrád with the optional and no longer mandatory relocation of asylum seekers. It was a resounding leap backwards from the country's prerogatives and needs. Let us always remember that the drive towards Europe was born in the conviction that, by hooking the country to this train, they would correct twists, made the institutions and the economy more modern, offering greater opportunities to the citizens. Of course, this road has proved far more winding and difficult than expected. But without Europe, who knows if Italy would ever have freed itself from some of its historical vices: the state-entrepreneur with companies that fed welfare; the financial maneuvers that enlarged the public debt; the closed markets, at the limits of the monopoly regime, to the detriment of the consumer citizens. You have decided to fall into one of these ancient vices, the worst, the one of public debt. And, meanwhile, we are attacking the Europe that points out all this, just like when faced with a fever you take it out on the thermometer. The truth is that in these few months Italy is slipping into a condition of ever greater isolation. President Conte, our Group has always expressed its appreciation for your person. From the beginning she had a difficult task. Today we wonder whether it really falls within its power to govern with responsibility, without following the impulses that only look at the electoral gain. But you are going to an international summit where you represent the whole country and, then, we hope that you will also represent that part of the population who calls for another approach towards Europe and its institutions and, above all, another style. We, as convinced Europeans, can only tell ourselves concerned about what is happening. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u44	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, President Conte, Liberi and Equal will vote against your resolution, for your idea of Europe, represented by the Visegrád Group, the sum of selfish sovereignisms. No one will benefit from these closures, we first, since we are a first port country and we have one of the worst debt-to-GDP relationships and your allies have been the first to reproach you for the 2.4 percent deviation. The vote of Free and Equal will be a vote against your idea of security. It will not be by raising walls and widening the links of self-defense and denying humanitarian visas that citizens and citizens will be safer, but by investing in services, transport, street lighting, stability and compliance of school buildings, interventions for areas affected by earthquake and other disasters, ecological conversion, help to families, recruitment incentives, investments in welfare and in right to study. A safe country is a country where the state cares about everyone, especially the last, and sews the social fabric. You're tearing it more and more, day by day. And it will not be the people under the balconies who bring you into triumph: your false promises are already showing the rope. The vote of Liberi and Equal will be a vote against what you are and represented: a team of incompetents, who invents tunnels where they do not exist; who in Genoa imagines the reconstruction of a bridge as a meeting place where people can live, play and eat, rather than a bridge useful to transport; who denies access to the canteen and books to girls and children who study in our country; who supports retrograde and obscurantist policies on the law 22 May 1978, n. 194 and on the custody of minors; who dismantles positive examples instead of replicating them; who strikes instead of defending; who attacks instead of curing; who looks back instead of looking forward. The vote of Free and Equal will be against this Government and in favour of a country more just, more welcoming, more supportive and more human, everything that you are not and not represented. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u47	FAZZOLARI (FdI). President Conte, thank you for listening. At the last European Council on 28 and 29 June, many newspapers focused on the gossip and images of her photographed alone and not particularly in tune with other European Premieres. Well, it was a much better image than what we used to see before, with big smiles and pats on the shoulders that then hid, usually, big tricks. They were the smiles that you are used to seeing on the faces of experienced poker players, happy to have found the turn chicken to put in the middle and cheat at the end of the evening. Always remember the Premier who preceded her in those organizations: when they pat her big on the shoulders and smiled, they are screwing her. Better to be disliked from time to time, but to defend national interests. That is what we are asking for. We do so with total sincerity, as patriots as we are, and that is why we will abstain on the motion for a majority resolution, which we do not fully agree with. However, when you are at the European Council you will represent all of Italy, so we now allow ourselves to give you some advice, which we hope you will do and which we have formalized in the two motions for resolutions tabled by the Brothers of Italy. I start quickly to illustrate the different points. The first, fundamental, concerns immigration. Today's debate has been important, because positions have been clarified. Unfortunately, President Grasso, the PD and also the Movimento 5 Stars have all spoken with one voice, which is very different from the approach of those who want to defend the external borders of the European Union. The government needs to be clear before it goes to the European Council. What is the Government's view of immigration? I thank the President of the 14th Commission, of whom I am a member, Senator Licheri, for his speech, because he has made clear the position of the Movimento 5 Stars, which is not, however, the position of the Brothers of Italy and is not the historic position of the right. In fact, by simplifying it, we continue to support what you said in a speech in this House some time ago: since there are strong pressures from Africa, the solution to migration should be to agree with the rest of Europe to distribute throughout Europe those who arrive in Italy. So, let us invade not only Italy, but the whole of Europe. This is the strategy: to revise the Treaty of Dublin, so as to distribute those who arrive. And since the villains of the East - I am referring to the group of Visegrád and Orbán - do not agree on the policy of being invaded, then they are not our allies. On the other hand, we are allies of Orbán and of the Visegrád Group, because we believe that Italy and Europe must defend the external borders of the European Union. Well, on that, Mr Conte, you must have clear ideas. We cannot go to Europe to say both at the same time. Let us bring in those who arrive, because the pressure is inevitable, and let us agree between Europeans on how to bring in all these masses of desperate people, or let us control the external borders. We cannot say both, because then, perhaps, it is precisely this ambiguity that causes us not to understand each other on certain points. At the last European Council, the control of the external borders of the European Union was established. However, as we said immediately, there are problems because, as far as the control of the borders of the Central Mediterranean is concerned, only the 500 million of the fund for Africa is allocated, while for the Balkan route, therefore the one starting from Turkey, 3 billion. We have said that we are trying to achieve a fairer proportion, and we repeat this to you, Mr Conte: go back to telling the European Council that this distribution should be better done. Then there is the serious problem that we are not fulfilling with regard to what has been said at the European Council, where it has been established that those who illegally enter one of the Member States of the European Union must be held in supervised centres. The European Commission has even reminded us of this and we continue not to do so. Given today's speeches, also by the Movimento 5 Star Group, there is a suspicion that we do not do so because we do not want to do so. Again, will you explain it to us? In the European Council, it was established that if a person enters illegally, he can be a refugee, asylum seeker, clandestine, a tourist, anything: he must be held in a supervised centre. Germany has already done so; it has already activated the first centre in Bavaria, where those entering illegally are detained for eighteen months. Why doesn't Italy do that? Why do you have the same vision as Macron, Soros? Why don't you do it? At the same time, we cannot go as sovereigns and then say, with the Movimento 5 Stars, that we must let people in and distribute them in Europe. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] With regard to immigration, therefore, give us clarification and from Brothers of Italy will have any support for the defense of external borders. There is another question that is time to put: to France which gives us so many lessons, President Conte, I would like you, at the next Council, to put the problem of the African French franc on the table. France currently prints the coin for 14 ex-colonial African states. This is not a favor that France does to these countries because, in return, in addition to being given interest and doing seigniorage, it demands the deposit of 50% of the revenue from exports. So, to understand: a state that sells to Germany for a billion, deposits 500 million to the French treasury. It's easy to be a buonist in this condition! If we want to talk about Africa, let's start by putting the problem of France that continues to lucurate on its former colonies. Compared to the security speech, you talked about cyber security, a very important issue, because hackers are a big problem. However, President Conte, from 2004 to 2017 there were 10 Islamic attacks in Europe, with 600 deaths, 4,000 wounded. We are talking about this when we talk about security within the European Union, because it is another taboo issue within the European Union: we cannot talk about Islam, we cannot talk about Islamic terrorism. When we talk about security, we talk about hackers, maybe Russian hackers, but let's focus on who makes the attacks and the dead in Europe. I see I have one minute left. With regard to sanctions against Russia, throughout the election campaign we have heard the majority forces support the abolition of sanctions against Russia: the government has reiterated this, it has also written it in the government program. Brothers of Italy is very happy, because it has always supported it. Yet, at the last Council, your government, President Conte, approved the sanctions to Russia. Again, what is the government's line? Let us understand immediately, Brothers of Italy is not a movement that looks with sympathy to Russia; we are nationalists and we do not look with sympathy to anyone, we do the interest of Italy, but sanctions to Russia are objectively a problem for our economy. Is she gonna be the problem? Finally, although I have very little time to deal with this issue, we have tabled a separate motion for a resolution on Brexit, because the Brexit agreements do not provide for the protection of Italian geographical indications: if we do not win this battle in the negotiation phase we will not be able to do so later. We therefore call on the Government to evaluate the motion for a resolution which we have only tabled on Brexit and perhaps to have Parliament's support on this. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u50	PITTELLA (PD). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I will tell you that your statements have not dissolved the fundamental issue which weighs on relations between the Italian Government and the European institutions: what to do, but also and especially with whom to do. If, in fact, we accept the dramatic picture that President Licheri has proposed with passion, it could also decide not to participate anymore in meetings of European institutions until the next elections, because only the saving electoral deadline can give expected answers, which with these European institutions is not possible to have. Therefore, Mr. Conte, you can stay in Rome. On the other hand, I think it is different and I think that we need to build alliances with Italy's objectives and that, if we want to tighten alliances, we cannot insult the possible allies from morning to evening; we cannot say that Juncker is in a certain way; we can make the criticisms we want, but I would add that we could do it with greater education. We cannot accredit the idea that there is a sort of Jewish-Masonic conspiracy ordained by who knows who and aimed at nullifying the free democratic exercise of Italian citizens, which - I agree - is sovereign and must be respected. We have to make alliances, but with whom do we make them on immigration? You have experienced this at the last summit: they have passed - as my previous colleague reminded me - the fact that the Dublin Rules of Procedure will not be modified unless unanimously, because in the European Council there is a block of countries, the sovereignist ones of Visegrad, which are your political partners, but which cannot be allies of Italy if the Italian Government wants to bring home some positive responses on the subject of immigration. [[Applause from the PD Group]] That's the truth. Do we want to make a plan for Africa, Senators Bonfrisco and Urso? I'm totally in agreement. We are to make a plan with Africa, made not of alms, but of dignity for the African people, which restores resources to the African people; a plan that is primarily made of education, youth entrepreneurship, dignity for women, of combating sexual violence. But with what alliance do we make this plan at European level? With those who say that he doesn't care about Africa and that he only cares about what happens in Hungary or Poland? The geopolitical axis counts: in history it has always been important to have a reference axis in Europe. Also on the subject of economic maneuvering, Senator Bonfrisco - but I could turn to many other friends - many of us in this House, opposition and majority, share the point that Italy's problem is not debt, but poor growth. And I mean it forcefully. But, if that is the problem; if we agree even that we cannot hang ourselves from decimals and algorithms - we are on this position - and on the fact that rules written once and forever cannot be changeable, regardless of the socio-economic conditions of the countries in which those same rules are to be implemented and if we want to have more room for manoeuvre on the budget, we must do what has been done by the governments Gentiloni Silveri and Renzi, that is, negotiate with the European Commission margins of flexibility. But to do what? In order not to make a maneuver in debt in order to do current shopping, but a maneuver in debt in order to make spending on infrastructure. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is the political point that we must have the courage and clarity to explain to the Italians. Can I owe you one? Of course you can do debt. But the markets and also the European institutions are encouraged, if we do the debt by saying that the high speed will be achieved from Rome to Sicily, the cabling of the Mezzogiorno of Italy and the great material and intangible infrastructures and a policy for small and medium-sized enterprises on environmental sustainability will be relaunched, then making so much policy for education and youth exchanges. This is a policy for growth. But of all this there is nothing or little less than nothing in your document of economy and finance. So, dear President Count, you must be clear. Do you want to be the allies of Orbán and Kaczynski? By the way, I would be very curious to know how you will vote when the Treaty article on Hungary and Orbán is to be applied in the Council, as voted by the European Parliament. You want to make the political allies of these characters and then you want to pursue goals on immigration, Africa and the economic maneuver that they themselves will not allow you, because the first opponents of debt are themselves. Those who can listen to a voice in terms of demand for flexibility are not the friends of the Visegrád group. Here is the great political contradiction of the Italian Government and the two great forces representing it. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u53	Mr Pucciarelli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important strategic moment for our country and for Europe. What we are working in is an unprecedented historical context, in which the global world, where the European Union plays the role of actor, is changing profoundly and the European Union itself is going through a cycle of strong political and institutional fluidity. This is not a moment of stability, but a time of change and transformation. Each European summit, formal or informal, in recent years has been faced with epochal and macro cultural and socio-economic issues, proving to be sadly unfit to overcome the emerging dimension, to put in place winning medium and long-term strategies and to build the well-being of those European peoples who, in the sign of a peacefully united Europe, have seen the hope of a better future than the past from which we come. From 2011 to today, Mr President, every European summit has seen the participation of a weak Italy, overwhelmed by the complex of being the last of the class and led by a political elite who made that complex the flag of its government action and its cultural hegemony. Today, among the many changes that have taken place on the European board, the most significant is undoubtedly the presence of an Italy finally without complexes, finally aware of its strength and decidedly proud of the new administrative perspectives opened by the popular vote at the past national political elections. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] ; an Italy without the hat in hand, represented with dignity and honor by President Conte and his Ministers. It is possible that today, thanks to the dynamism of Italy, on the Community scene, so far governed by the Franco-German axis, both the emerging dimension with which certain problems have been addressed in the past are overcome; and the regime of economic austerity imposed on the eurozone since 2011 with all its contradictions; and those fractures within the European States, such as the Brexit negotiation, which risk creating an inauspicious rigidity in future international relations. And the next European summit, on which we express ourselves, will have these huge issues on the agenda. The migratory flow to Europe cannot be overlooked, especially after a summer period during which two incontrovertible facts emerged. First of all, it has been demonstrated by the Italian Government that departures and landings can be stopped. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] And here, Mr. President Conte, I thank you through Vice Prime Minister Matteo Salvini. Secondly, it has been demonstrated by the rest of Europe that solidarity exists only in a single sense, i.e. from Italy to other States, and not from other States to Italy. Twenty immigrants of the Diciotti ship have been taken from Albania, and not from France, but which does not miss an opportunity to make morale. Not only does he morale us, but he teases us, because this morning Macron had the courage to give responsibility to agents as inexperienced for the invasion on Italian territory. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] At least he had the courage to take responsibility for his actions. We are still in the sad situation where the phenomenon of immigration, which became structural after 2010, is being treated by the European States as a transitional phenomenon. The only one is Italy, which finally puts in place lasting solutions, in the medium and long term. But we can't be left alone, or better: those who decide to leave us alone must know that on this game we will not be able to talk about other issues. Another problem to which few answers have been given is the fight against cybercrime, which attacks the means of information with the aim of tacitizing or distorting the messages of institutions or groups of opinion, disturbing the free movement of ideas, which is the beating heart of our democracies. From this point of view, only timid initiatives have been taken. More needs to be done. The euro summit is also on the horizon, at which European economic integration and its future prospects will be discussed. It will be a very important opportunity to dismantle the dogma of austerity. The failure of austerity is in everyone's eyes, but one point on which I would like to draw the attention of this House is that the austerity regime has led to the disaffection of peoples not only towards the current structure of the European institutions, but also towards the very idea of a united Europe. The germ of intolerance between nations has come back to snake, and this is not because of the so-called populist forces, which are still the only ones to believe in a European plan of peoples brothers and sisters and free from the financial dictatorship [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] , but because of those who go to the streets with the flag of Europe and, at the same time, rejoices at the speculative attacks made against our nation. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] I repeat: unfortunately, there are also people in this House who are happy with the attacks on democracy; that democracy for which many have given blood and which will not be the spread that abolishes. The Brexit, then, concerns us closely. There have been broad agreements on many important aspects, but the issue of the border between Ireland and Northern Ireland remains unresolved, as well as the important identification of the type of post-Brexit economic and trade partnership. These are very controversial aspects that bring out the spectre of a nodeal and the turbulent diplomatic relations that would follow it. From this point of view, it is our indispensable commitment to safeguard the Italian community in the United Kingdom and to be firmly at the side of Ireland. In this context, we have a certainty to which we do not intend to fail, with good peace of those who make media terrorism in this regard. We are firmly within the Atlantic Alliance which was, is and will be Europe's unbreakable unified war pattern. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In conclusion, Mr President, we strongly support the Commission's call for a strengthening of the EU's external borders in order to avoid tragedies at sea; for a careful reform of the Dublin Treaty; for cooperation between the law enforcement agencies of the various countries to be encouraged; and for a firm reaffirmation of the principle of helping them at home. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We favour cooperation with the countries of origin for real economic development that favours its social and economic well-being. We also support the fight against cybercrime and organised crime and the desire to promote all necessary initiatives to set up a working group to study the current European architecture and European economic policy, with a view to effectively complying with the Treaties, which affirm the growth in stability and the increase in the well-being of all European citizens, without exception. Finally, we firmly believe that this Government can and must act to make the European Central Bank a real sovereign bank, capable of playing the role of lender of last resort. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The fact that he is physically in Frankfurt says a lot about his real independence. Finally, we disengage the spread. We take away the economic powers that no one has ever voted for, the power to destabilize democracies and silence sovereign peoples. For this reason, the Lega-Salvini Premier Parliamentary Group - Sardinian Action Party, will vote firmly on the resolution, in the awareness of working to give new sovereignty and dignity to the oppressed and hungry peoples of Europe. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u54	We greet a representation of students of the Secondary Institute of Higher Education "Antonio Rosmini" of Palma Campania, in the province of Naples, which today attends our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u57	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, on 5 October last, Commissioner Dombrovskis and Commissioner Moscovici wrote a letter to the Italian Minister for the Economy, harshly criticising the DEF Update Note, because it deviated from the recommendations adopted by the European Council with regard to the return from the deficit. That letter was welcomed by very hard attacks by government representatives and the majority on the recommendations of the European Council that the President of the European Affairs Commission, Senator Licheri, of the Movimento 5 Stars, has just said he is composed of "those who want to impose the dictatorship of algorithms." Who knows what European Council had approved those recommendations, also because they had been adopted unanimously and, therefore, also with the vote of Italy. We can then think of Gentiloni Silveri, Renzi, Letta, Monti and perhaps Berlusconi (all the last President of the Council chosen by the citizens). But no, because that European Council was held not in the past but on 28 June last and to represent Italy and to vote on those recommendations there was the present President of the Council Giuseppe Conte. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I have made it the subject of a piece of intervention, but we do not think - and I think no one here thinks so - that these issues can be appreciated internationally. And I do not believe that at European level this gives credibility to our country, especially if combined with very fierce attacks against the bad guys of the European Council, not to mention the members of the European Commission, which, according to government representatives, we will wipe out. When Mr Mallegni pointed out to you just now, Mr Conte, that to listen for a long time - and with the kindness that we recognize them - many speeches without taking notes risk not remembering much, he made a very appropriate observation. In fact, three months have passed since those recommendations and you have signed an update note to the DEF and a budget law that clashes with those recommendations. It took three months, but the day before, moreover, of that European Council of 28 June, here you received the recommendation - indeed, the commitment - by the majority in government - and, on some points, also by other political forces - to work on certain aspects, such as the elimination of sanctions to Russia, which do more harm to those who place them than to those who receive them. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I would also like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Bolkestein, for his excellent report. The next day, at the European Council, together with other countries, it voted to extend and extend sanctions to Russia and nothing was achieved on the Bolkestein directive. But there was one positive aspect: you - and of course many other members of the majority and of your Government - called that European Council a great success and a turning point, just as the European Council had approved on immigration. Many of us have noted with satisfaction this success, because we support Italy, whoever is in the government. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] Unfortunately, it was enough that he spent a few days because the story of the ship Diciotti made us discover that we had achieved absolutely nothing, not even from the point of view of immigration: the people who were on board that ship were kept in port, he expected a bit and today they are all in Italy, exactly as it happened before the Government of change. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] There is some problem, then: we must make sure that we are in a certain sense consequent. This is where the question of the maneuver comes in, which you have spoken about and which clashes with the recommendations adopted by the European Council, including your vote, on 28 June; but we have seen this now, and that is all right. Well, this maneuver does not put us in the right direction, nor does it put us in a position to impose ourselves on that dangerous body called the European Council or the European Commission. Instead, it puts us in a state of isolation, because putting ourselves in front of what Italy had been asked, even from a political point of view, with continuous statements and attacks - even personal ones - on the members of the European Commission is not the way in which something can be achieved. The Berlusconi governments, on the other hand, have always worked in the direction of opposing the European Union on very important points to defend the interests of the country and President Silvio Berlusconi paid this in person [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , suffering attacks of all kinds, including speculative and political, not to mention judicial ones; however, he defended Italy, always seeking dialogue with other countries. We cannot attack almost all the countries of the European Union, except for some, with whom - as Senator Licheri said, of the 5 Star Movimento - we have nothing, or very few interests, in common: I am talking about the Visegrád Group, with which, apart from the fact that it does not want our immigrants, for the rest we do not have so much in common. We can have so much sympathy and some views in common: but if they do not want to take any of our immigrants, which we want to give them, I do not see the great interest in common. The isolation that we have today was exactly the opposite of what Silvio Berlusconi has always carried out with his Governments, obtaining remarkable things, of which I do not now make the list, limiting myself to talking only about the successes achieved just to mitigate those excessively rigid norms and defend the interests of Italy, Made in Italy and many other issues. Then, President Conte, I say only this: we will support you when you fight to defend Italian interests; when you ask not to apply the Bolkestein directive where it does not apply; when you will fight to defend the borders from illegal immigration and also from the incursions that come from France; when you will defend the interests of Italy and the security of citizens; when, finally, you will fight to promote the return of immigrants who are not entitled to remain in our country. It will have our support on all of this, but Italy cannot remain isolated. There is only one country that personally gives you a certain credit: President Trump personally reserves to you, President Conte, an excellent treatment; but then we learn, learn something also from Trump. Trump, since he was elected, has raised the values of the American Stock Exchange by 40% and unemployment is at its lowest. Since your Government came forward, the Italian Stock Exchange has lost 20 percent; 150 billion capitalization has gone to waste, with billions more paid on interest and unemployment that is already rising only with the decree of dignity. Take an example from the only point of reference that - apparently - this Government has somehow managed to have, perhaps more than anything else because of the common enemy that is the European Commission, and try to make Italy's interest. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u60	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, we are also here today to talk about Europe and we are doing so on the basis of a paradox that is being experienced in the narrative both outside and within this House. The paradox is very simple: Europe has decided to leave all its sovereignty to the Member States on issues such as immigration, where it needs a European sovereignty, and has decided instead to keep economic and financial sovereignty for itself, where, on the other hand, total sovereignty and autonomy are needed within the Member States. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Examples of how that national sovereignty to deal with European issues demonstrates all its fragility, and therefore that the relationship between the Member States is based on selfishness, we have seen them almost daily: we have seen what happened yesterday in the relationship with France; we have seen the French Gendarmerie bring immigrants to our territory; we have seen it in Bardonecchia; we have seen it many times in the Mediterranean, when Member States close their ports while having an obligation to go and save human lives. On this, however, sovereignty is always at the head of the peoples. And I see it every day on my territory: very little is said about it, but from the border of Friuli-Venezia Giulia hundreds of people enter every day. And that's not happening because they don't get on a boat. I, however, who studied geography in high school think I remember that around my border there are all Member States of the European Union and then I wonder why Italy always has to take charge of such arrivals. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] On the contrary, we have seen how European economic sovereignty has produced totally poor results in Europe, but even more so in Italy. Senator Pittella referred to agreements to be made with Europe in order to call for more flexibility, more intervention and more financial commitments. However, I wonder how such agreements were made, because Italy is the country that has managed to get out of the crisis worse than any other European partner; it has lost 10 points of GDP to the rest of Europe; it has made 448 billion new debt since 1 January 2012; it has the highest unemployment rate in Europe. I wonder, then, if those margins that we asked for from Europe were insufficient or if they were asked badly, or if they were not given to us, because we have seen instead run - as Senator Licheri has already said - many other countries on different fronts. It is obvious, therefore, that on the basis of this wrong assumption, of this paradox of lack of sovereignty - on the one hand - and of abandonment of sovereignty - on the other hand - citizens are obviously confused and do not understand well what this Europe is for. The categories of citizens are then born. We speak very often of sovereignism and populism, putting the bad on the side of sovereignism and populism. I have limited legal studies, but I believe that Article 1 of the Constitution states that sovereignty belongs to the people and that is where the concepts of sovereignism and pupulism that this majority likes are. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Instead, I believe that the Government, thanks to the excellent work of President Conte, is making Italy recover that important role it has in Europe, as was recalled by Senator Licheri's intervention. Italy is one of the founding countries of what was the European Community and it is on the concept of community that we must insist on, on the concept of help between different peoples, that have different characteristics, that want to be sovereign over certain things, but that need one another to address issues that individual countries cannot face and need European partners to face together not in a fight where they win or lose sovereignisms, but in a common vision of a Europe that is not what could have been sixty years ago. Many things have changed in the last 60 years. The founding principles of the European Community are then those on which today we must return forcefully to give answers, not to bureaucracy or financial issues, but to the citizens who live in those territories and who need to have clarity and certainty from an institution such as the European one which, as a whole, has the opportunity to face even major problems such as immigration. Mr Conte, we are voting in favour of the majority resolution and the majority will be at your side in the European Council, because I believe that the issues you want to bring to that place are those that we rightly have to deal with in a cohesive manner. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u61	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senators Lorefice, Pucciarelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 4, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 5 tabled by Senator Urso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Bernini and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 6 at the same time. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). This concluded the communications with a view to the European Council of 18 October 2018. I suspend the sitting until 5 p.m. and in any case until the end of the Presidency Council. (The sitting was suspended at 12.40 p.m. and resumed at 5.05 p.m.) The session is resumed. [[Brusio]] I would ask colleagues to take their seats, significantly lower the volume of conversations and leave the government stand free.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u62	The next item is the debate on proposals for a preliminary ruling on draft law No 840. I call Senator De Petris to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs we are holding a series of hearings, in particular, including those held today, on certain elements of the decree-law which are closely related to the proposals for a preliminary ruling and which have been clearly and clearly highlighted by the rules which are manifestly unconstitutional. Beyond that, Mr President, the hearings held yesterday revealed that we have before us a decree-law which contains a series of rules that really deserve not only a discussion in terms of constitutionality, as we will now, in a short time, but also a series of in-depth discussions. On the other hand - and I address my fellow Members - the President of the Republic himself, despite some changes in the final drafting of the decree-law, had a letter sent to the President of the Council, in which he called for the fulfilment of constitutional obligations, in particular Article 10 of our Constitution. I do not want, of course, to interpret the President of the Republic, but I believe that this is highly significant, because it puts to our attention how fundamental it is, in the examination of this decree-law, to bear in mind that there is Article 10 of the Constitution, which has not been abolished until today. Moreover, the decree-law, once again, clearly fails - never as this time - to the requirements of necessity and urgency laid down in our Constitution in Article 77. The reasons for the urgency referred to in the same report are vague and certainly not such as to give substance and justify the adoption of the decree-law. In fact, I would like to ask my colleagues what the need and urgency of a decree-law would be today, which, moreover, was first announced and then published in the Official Journal after twenty days: what would be the emergency today? I say this forcefully because we are full of statements by the Minister of the Interior, Vice Prime Minister Salvini, who, with all his propaganda tools, continues to say that the number of arrivals has been significantly reduced and indeed, the number of landings, even compared to last year, has seen an 80% decrease. So, what would be the emergency that justifies the use of a decree-law to intervene, then, on what? Basically and primarily on humanitarian protection and other closely related aspects, therefore, I repeat again, in contrast to all the various judgments of the Constitutional Court, which has been pronounced on the issue several times in an unequivocal way: the necessity and urgency must be clear and not the subject of mere intentions, because politically it is considered that we must intervene with a decree-law. Let us move on to the second element concerning the existence of constitutionality, which concerns the requirement of homogeneity. In this decree-law we intervene in the matter of immigration. I would like to remind you that at the beginning there were two decree-laws, one for immigration and the other for public security and that they have been merged, which is why the homogeneity is certainly not traceable: a combination of administrative measures that intervene on different issues, from immigration to the agency for seized goods, road blocks, measures for the Forces of Order. Aver, then, used the word "security" exclusively linked to immigration is like admitting a presumption not of innocence, as our Constitution says, but of guilt, because immigration, according to this decree-law, is simply a problem of public security. There is more. The requirement of homogeneity - I would like to remind you once again - has been recalled several times by the Constitutional Court, among whose judgments I would like to point out strongly No 22 of 2012, with which the Consultative Council has traced the illegality of a decree-law whose content did not respect, precisely, the constraint of homogeneity. I shall now turn to a number of matters which are clearly and inopportunely unconstitutional. Let us begin with Article 1, namely that humanitarian protection is abolished. From this point of view, the appeal of the President of the Republic - we should read the letter of accompaniment - is very clear. In the text you can also delete the reference to the Constitution and international conventions, but even if you did, it is not that these rules disappear: they are there to oversee the values and instruments that a democratic state must implement. The right of asylum, which is guaranteed by the third paragraph of Article 10 of the Constitution, is not only fulfilled by transposing European law as regards refugee status and subsidiary protection, but above all by applying a humanitarian protection of the foreigner in practice; therefore, its abolition in fact violates the recalled constitutional provision. It is evident and also in the judgment of the 2018 Cassation it is clearly said that the instrument of humanitarian protection is not residual, in the sense that it should be an ancillary element, but it is an element that draws its strength and its origin directly from Article 10 of our Constitution. What is done instead of protection? A series of typings, special permits, ranging from medical care to problems of natural disasters, are introduced, that is, trying to typicalize some specific cases. But be aware that the fact of typicalizing, therefore of channeling them only in some cases, does not exhaust the call of Article 10 of the Constitution, which obliges us, not only morally, but also from the point of view of the foundation of our republican pact, to respect and have the right to asylum and humanitarian protection among the founding values of the Republic, not to mention all the European norms and conventions of human rights and the Convention on Refugees. Another very strong element of unconstitutionality concerns Article 14. The decree-law provides for the revocation of citizenship to those who have committed very heavy crimes and crimes. There is discrimination, in violation of Article 3 of our Constitution, between Italian citizens by birth and citizens by subsequent acquisition. By contravening international standards on apolicy, we would create a legal monster. As you know, Mr President, this is a blatant and blatant violation of Article 3 of the Constitution. There are Italian citizens, who are by birth, by blood, who have been stained with heinous crimes and maintain citizenship, of course, and others, who have acquired it later, to whom it is removed: an incredible treatment of inequality. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Not to mention - but we will have the opportunity to return - Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution. A detention is introduced for the sole purpose of identification for thirty days and, if it has not identified itself, for another hundred and eighty days, with clear violation of various articles (2, 3, 10, 13 and 117) of our Constitution, among other things by ensuring detentions in places not well identified, with all that it means from the point of view of personal freedom. There can be no such blatant discrimination. Finally, Mr President, remembering that today is 16 October: we should all remember that it is the anniversary of the deportation of the Jews from the ghetto in Rome. We, once again, in the history of this country, are making clearly discriminatory acts by race, by birth and by belonging; I believe that we should all reflect on this. I would ask Members to examine not only the question of the preliminary ruling, but also the decree-law. That is why we ask that we do not proceed to the examination of the measure. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u64	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the State Economic Technical Institute (Roberto Valturio) in Rimini, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u65	I call Senator Parrini to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP2.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u66	Mr President, I, like Mrs De Petris, was very impressed by the hearings we have held - which have not yet been completed - in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The reason why I was very impressed by the opinions that we have heard is that the amount of elements that in this decree-law are in open conflict with articles of our Constitution, with judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, with judgments and ordinances of the Court of Cassation and with judgments of the Constitutional Court are really many. We intend to use the time we are given to explain our preliminary question to appeal to the majority to reconsider the opportunity to proceed with this legislative initiative. In the light of what we have heard, in fact, it seems to us that the violation of constitutional precepts is so clear - I am thinking of Articles 3, 10, 13, 27 and 111 of the Constitution - that we think that this measure will not remain in place, as soon as those who are used to exercise constitutional legitimacy control over the acts of Parliament will examine it and take a decision on its conformity with the Constitution. Do you want to make a flag measure? Would you like to make a manifest provision? I wonder if that's what our country needs today. I believe that we need to tackle the problems with effective measures and not give in to the temptation of demagogy. There are really some things that are disconcerting: the clear contrast with Article 10 of the Constitution of the point of the measure that takes its name from the Minister of the Interior and that provides for the abolition of humanitarian protection has been mentioned. The questions of detention for identification, of the extension from 90 to 180 days of the period of stay in return centres, of the exclusion from the possibility of registering for asylum seekers, which means the exclusion of a category of persons from the enjoyment of fundamental social rights, raise a great deal of doubts. Important concerns are also raised by the rule on the revocation of citizenship. During the hearings, one of the constitutionalists we heard quoted a beautiful statement made in the constituent assembly by a great Venetian constituent father, Umberto Merlin, who said that the State, against unworthy citizens, always has other means of defence more worthy of the revocation of citizenship, which is never tolerable. There are also great doubts that the financial invariance clause, written in the measure, is clearly incompatible with the rules contained in the measure itself, which are intended to lead to bureaucratic, administrative and even financial increases, in addition to the illegality profiles I have just mentioned. And then look, the greatest risk, which makes us lean for the request not to pass to the examination of the measure, is that we are faced with an act that does exactly the opposite of what is proposed, that gets opposite effects to those that it says it wants to pursue, thus creating a sort of boomerang effect. We all know that the result that will in fact have the measure will be to increase the irregulars in our country and we all know that, with the increase of the illegal presences in our country, also the insecurity will increase. We are therefore faced with the paradox of a decree-law that refers to security and that will end, if approved as it is written today, to produce insecurity. Finally, I would like to make one final point: President Mattarella's letter is not something we can ignore. It reminds us that the obligation to comply with international and constitutional commitments cannot be bypassed in any way. Today there has been a debate on the European Council which will take place in a few days' time, and we all know that much more should be done to achieve a better governance of the complex phenomenon of migration, which affects our own and other countries. Alliances should really be made, as Senator Pittella said, in order to arrive at the possibility of reforming the Dublin Regulation, we should not be isolated in the European Union, we should do everything possible to establish relationships that allow us to make real returns, we should make fair arrangements to arrive at redistribution. From this point of view, our Government is making many mistakes and the discussion of this question is a further opportunity to point them out and to invite the majority to a repentance, because if we really want to have more security, in accordance with the constitutional principles and of humanity, we must follow a path entirely different from the one that has been decided to take with the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u67	One representative per Group will be able to speak during the debate for no more than ten minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u70	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite all of you to reflect on a reasoning that seems objective to me. We are discussing a measure which is in fact a manifest measure. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u71	Forgive me, Senator Errani.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u72	Colleagues, please lower your voice or just listen to Senator Errani's intervention. In particular, I turn to the right side of the House. Please, Senator Errani, continue. Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). I was saying, a manifest measure that aims to ensure greater security. As the previous speakers have said, the result is quite clear: to produce further illegality and greater insecurity. However, the ideology behind this provision is very worrying. There are constitutional and legal principles in this country, not only in the Constitution, but also before the Constitution, which with this provision are torn apart. Firstly, there is no emergency. This, taking as a reference the Minister of the Interior, is declared by the Minister himself: there is a reduction of more than 80% of landings and arrivals. There is no emergency and the decree-law is an inappropriate tool to address the issue. Secondly, two different criteria are being introduced on citizenship: the citizen who is born with citizenship and who commits crimes will have a path; the citizen who has acquired citizenship will have another path. This is clearly unconstitutional and calls into question a fundamental legal principle. I say this above all to my colleagues who in recent years have been very attentive to the principle of legality, transparency and humanity: I ask you, reflect on this reference, but above all reflect before approving a provision of this kind, which opens the door to a very dangerous way of reasoning in this country and which, as has been said, has already been practiced in this country, with racial laws and other provisions of a distant twentieth century. The revocation of citizenship and the identification of specific profiles, such as the Daspus for those who are sick, are measures that can collect demagogic applause from someone, but that hurt this country. I'm moving on. I see you continue to bomb the only reception system that has worked, which is SPRAR. There is not only Riace, but there is also a job done by the municipalities. You bomb it, you question it, and you build an emerging system, even this one outside the rules of the Constitution, which makes it possible for you to hold back, you don't understand where, for one hundred and eighty days, a person is. But let's think about it. Is this the way? There is no emergency, so I ask you: what is a fundamental choice that you should make? I say this first of all to my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars, who I always look very carefully: there is no doubt that one of the reasons for the growth of illegality in this country is the Bossi-Fini law. Abrogate her! [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]] There are in fact thousands of people who care for our fathers and mothers who are in hiding for that law and who knows what would happen if they were not there to look after our fathers and our mothers. Moreover, with the measures you are taking, I do not know where the welfare will end. Think about it; Think about it. It is not demagogy and propaganda that can confront with humanity, legality and transparency the issue of immigration, but more serious reasoning, less propaganda, in search of truth and not applause and easy collection of consensus. I come from a region where a few years ago, in many municipalities of the lower Modena and Reggiana, where there is a production system, with a population of 8,000, 9,000 or 10,000 inhabitants already had 20 percent of immigrants. In those years (I speak of five or six years ago), those immigrants were integrated, they worked, they were in a mechanism. Pushing on fear and belly will also cause serious damage to safety in this country. Think about it. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u75	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, the Brothers of Italy Group will vote against these questions because, if the security decree proposed by the Government has a defect, it is to be very smokey and little roasted. There is no danger to the Italian Constitution, if anything, there is a danger to Italian citizens, who are not adequately protected by this decree-law. We will endeavour in this House to ensure that this measure is in line with the promises made in the electoral campaign by the political forces that govern today and with this decree smoke in the eyes of the Italians, promising, for example, to repeal the rule (almost Italian anomaly) of humanitarian protection, except then to include in this same text a whole series of exceptions that make this fake repeal totally useless, forgetting once again that the European Council of 28 and 29 June has decreed that those who enter illegally in a Member State of the European Union should be detained. But what liberticide, colleagues on the left? In Germany the detention of those who enter the German State illegally or of those who are found there today is foreseen up to eighteen months, not up to six months as this decree-law wants to do. Moreover, in this decree-law there should be a sacrosanct principle, which unfortunately is not there, namely that those who want to entrust themselves to the Italian State to be protected must respect its rules, including the rules governing the entry of foreigners into Italy. Dear Lords of the Government, in this decree-law you must provide that the application for asylum must be submitted only at the moment when the foreigner wants to enter Italy, at the border, as well as you must provide for the immediate expulsion of all those who are found on the territory, on which perhaps they have been staying for months or years, and only instrumentally submit the application for asylum. You must also provide, for example, as happens in Germany, for the immediate expulsion of EU citizens who are on our territory and are deprived of any means of subsistence. This happens in civil and democratic Germany and does not happen in Italy and even on this your decree-law says nothing. (17.36) (Following BALBONI). In this measure, moreover, the crimes for which the withdrawal of the permit and asylum procedure is planned are extended, but serious crimes such as house theft are forgotten, which arouses a great alarm, theft with tear, but above all, the incitement to criminals is forgotten. In particular, it forgets to impose on the imams who preach on the national territory to do so in Italian: all too often the use of another language and the inattention on this aspect become a tool to incite criminals, holy war and terrorism. In this measure, then, in the matter of Italian citizenship, should be provided, for example, a clause of preference for Italians who are abroad and who want to return to Italy. The left says we need immigrants because today's immigrants pay the pensions of Italians. One wonders, if anything, who will pay the pensions of immigrants when they retire: who, if not the Italians? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Why, then, not give preference - if indeed so - to the Italians of South America, Venezuela, who starve and want to come to Italy? Will it not be easier to integrate our compatriots of Italian origin than Nigerians or all those who come from sub-Saharan Africa? And again, when we have to give citizenship to foreigners, why do you not provide in this decree-law the obligation to know the Italian language, with an Italian language exam, in addition to the obligation to know our laws, our history, our Constitution and to swear on our Constitution? This should include a real security decree. Why don't you expect the article in the penal code that set up the torture crime to be repealed? We are talking about a real Damocles sword on justice workers, public officials, public security officers who are no longer able to do their job. [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups]] In fact, if they create a disturbance in the one who is about to be arrested, they are even accused of torture: just a psychic disturbance, think about what you have managed to achieve, colleagues from the left, in the last parliamentary term. Then, ladies and gentlemen, the Brothers of Italy Group will vote against this reference because it really wants this House to deal with these issues and give an urgent and indisputable answer to the question of the security of the Italian people. [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u78	VALENT (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of the Interior has been raising his voice in the country for months and raising the expectations of Italians about the issues of this decree-law. For months we have heard him promise his iron fist on security, immigration and repatriation, as if the two themes were perfectly overlapping or, in any case, two sides of the same coin, as if the node of the security of our cities and our communities depend exclusively on the number of immigrants present on our territory and as if, vice versa, a modern democracy like Italy, in its geographical position, could now decide on its own to do without a global phenomenon such as immigration or at least decide to stop - to make a concrete example - the wind with its hands. For months, Vice Prime Minister Salvini has explained to us that migration flows are only a problem of public order and close contact with the rejection of those who arrive and the repatriation of those who are already there. All this decree-law was written in this frame. It is no coincidence that no other of the many subjects on which it intervenes appears in the title. It would have, in fact, in the eyes of the public, diluted the equation immigration equals insecurity, on which the Legist propaganda tries to build with all evidence for a long time its own consent. The intention was to throw gasoline to justify a migrant emergency well beyond the reality and it is the reason why the instrument of the decree-law was used, which would require prerequisites of necessity and urgency, when instead, at least in the proposed solutions, none of these characters is detected. These are, of course, structural measures which modify disciplines of entire subjects. On the one hand, the regulation for the protection of asylum seekers is reorganized, and on the other hand, the organisation of the Agency for property confiscated from organised crime is being reorganised. Among other things, on this matter, the anti-mafia code is changed in a dangerous way, providing for the possibility of selling confiscated goods to the highest bidder. We abandon, that is, the principle, followed in recent years, so that the goods stolen from the mafia to the community must return to the community, with a certain social function. In addition, behind the logic of privatisation, there is a real risk that their purchase is made by entrepreneurs and contractors who move in a grey area on the border of legality. I have taken two significant examples, that of international protection and that of the Agency, to say how little the individual contents of the decree-law have on the one hand the character of extraordinaryness and urgency, on the other that of homogeneity, elements that, as we know, according to Article 77, second paragraph of our Constitution, are necessary to legitimize the exercise of legislative power by the Government. But let's also pass these escamotage to keep the climate high from the permanent election campaign. We are getting used to understanding that propaganda is the real oxygen of this government coalition. What is concerned, however, is the government's claim to address the issue of migration as if it were an emerging fact. It is the most plastic demonstration that nothing has been understood of a phenomenon that will accompany our democracies not for years, but for decades. Putting your head under the sand, not seeing that what has approached the continents has also accelerated the pace of migration, thinking of being able to avoid flows, all this only means putting fear to the present using the future and Italy instead needs those opportunities, it needs the migration phenomenon to be governed with choices that push beyond the immediate conveniences and look with wisdom and foresight to the future. The real problem is given by the merit of this decree-law. There is one thing that Vice Prime Minister Salvini tells the truth about: this measure he strongly wanted actually concerns all Italians. However, it concerns them, unfortunately, because it hits them and will hit them in a negative way in a not too far tomorrow. The title of this decree-law should have been, more clearly, decree propaganda and insecurity, because this contains: or answers that are not solutions or answers that are radically wrong solutions, which will only have the effect of making all Italians less secure. On the one hand, there are distraction operations, people change words for things that in fact remain the same: the residence permit is removed for humanitarian reasons and it is replaced by special permits, but in fact they follow what already happens today. Their duration will also be the same as that expected today in most cases. The only consequence will be, if anything, that we will have one less instrument to implement the right of asylum enshrined in the Constitution in Article 10, a right which, as has been reiterated by the Constitutional Court, is not entirely indefatigable in a rigid typing. On the other hand, there are radically wrong solutions. In fact, if the Government decides to break down the best integration tools that our country has given itself over time, tools that even with difficulty and difficulty had spread between municipalities and territorial administrations, the level of security and control of our territories will suffer the consequences. The close that is laid down on the lifting of international protection and the suspension of asylum applications will not lead to simpler expulsions. We will have the opposite effect, that of increasing illegality and marginality. The one to whom protection will be revoked, not being able to return to his country, will end up staying in Italy, only will he do it as an irregular, as an invisible man. It will also become a clandestine person to whom the application for asylum will be suspended for a conviction at first instance of judgment. Today the suspension takes place after final condemnation, tomorrow, with this decree-law, the principle of not guilty, which applies without discussion to Italian citizens, will mark an exception for asylum seekers clearly to the limits of constitutionality. As with the period of detention at the detention centers, which is doubled without cause, thus increasing the real danger that abuses and referees will occur to the detriment of migrants. Be careful because such a measure, with such a strong impact on personal freedom, risks being in clear contrast to the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights. Even more since the only motivation at the base seems to be the punitive intent towards migrants. Here, evaluating all these measures, the only thing that will be easier for migrants thanks to this decree-law will instead get out of legality and inflate the basin of desperate people subject to the call and blackmail of delinquency. Here's your security decree. From a government like today, which has put immigration at the top of its list of priorities, we would have frankly expected something more; for sure something different from that. If there is one aspect of repressive policies that is specific to the migratory phenomenon, then this is the fight against criminal organizations that speculate on desperate situations of people at the end of their life expectancy. In this decree-law, however, of measures against the scafists, against the trafficking of human beings, against those who take advantage of and speculate on situations of emergency and need, there is no trace. The government had announced the iron fist against lawlessness and then, then, it does nothing in this decree-law to strengthen the fight against those who produce that illegality every day and above it speculate and enrich themselves. You say you want to strengthen the return centers and allocated 500,000 euros for 2018 and 1.5 million euros for 2019-2020; they are crumbs that will produce a decrease of returns, rather than an increase, since since this Government has also lost sight of a serious and effective diplomatic action, the only one that, as has been done in the past, can allow a country like Italy to return irregular migrants to the countries of origin. The only foreign policy carried out by Vice Prime Minister Salvini was that with countries that have an interest in weakening European integration policies and leaving Italy therefore more exposed and more alone in the debate, as we said this morning. With this measure in short, Mr President, the Government loses the challenge of security, loses it because of the ineffectiveness of the answers it offers, but loses it mainly because it renounces the only bet on which today it makes sense to invest, that of integration. As has been said, the widespread reception system for asylum seekers is being destroyed. It is an instrument that in recent years had spread and had been appreciated by the Municipalities because it was based on a simple principle, which is why it is easier to integrate if the large numbers are distributed in the territory, if the trust between those who welcome and those who are welcomed is fostered, if those who are welcomed become part of a social project known and shared. The government has decided not to play this game, preferring to focus everything on the big reception centers, with a great concentration of people, a worsening of the internal life and thus increase the need for controls. One might wonder why, if we did not know that nourishing social security and mistrust is the only strategy that this government can put in place. It is a short-sighted, cynical and irresponsible way that this measure confirms. In short, you have committed yourselves and made it; with this provision you have given the worst of yourselves, generated expectations that you have nurtured by fomenting a climate of fear and intolerance, and then build fake solutions that, however, instead of improving, greatly worsen the existing conditions, generating marginality, exclusion and insecurity. All for a little cheap propaganda and to distract attention from the abyss in which you are pushing Italy. For these reasons we, with this preliminary ruling, ask you to stop while you are still in time, because Italy and our security are worth more than a few votes to this Government. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u79	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Secondary Education (Rinaldo D'Aquino) in Montella, in the province of Avellino, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u82	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, our Group does not agree with the constitutional issues and disputes about the decree-law. We are aware of the complexity of the discussion in matters such as expulsion or citizenship, because there has always been a contrast between the security needs, widely felt in the country, and the legal profiles that have often led to very subtle and complex discussions. However, in the face of the issue of jihadist and fundamentalist terrorism, the issue of citizenship must be considered with realism because it cannot be considered a worthy citizen who has behavior of a certain type. We have seen, moreover, how the phenomena of integration have not solved the issues. Sometimes it has been said that the marginalization of immigrants pushes towards fundamentalism. This was not the case in the case of one of the most famous attacks in recent years in France. The Belgians who had been involved were French citizens, worked in municipalized companies, one of them drove the bus (I believe his family name was Salah) and the brother I believe is still employed municipal because no one had committed any crimes against him. So they were integrated citizens who worked and gave rise - or at least he gave rise - to one of the most heinous crimes in recent history. Therefore, in the face of these issues, the debate is undoubtedly delicate and could also be extended to citizens born here for generations, so if anything the issue of the withdrawal of citizenship would be extensive, and in our opinion, it should be examined carefully. We'll discuss it. The hearings that have been held have raised complex constitutional problems but, I repeat, we have a very changed contemporary reality with behaviors that were unimaginable. Then it will be said that then the theme should also concern the Italians who have committed heinous crimes like melting children in acid. I believe that it would be legitimate even in those cases to pose the problem of citizenship because none of us feel like a citizen of Brusca or other characters who then, if anything, have erected premium legislation almost to benemerites or state pensioners (but this, as they say, is another story). [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] So we do not agree with the constitutional disputes. We are going to examine the substance of the measure. Just now, with some colleagues, examining the legislative proposals of many colleagues of the Forza Italia Group, we have taken on an intense amending activity that we will continue because we are concerned above all with safety on the ground and the lack of staff. We are concerned about the titles that are in this decree-law, without the development of the theme because this is the problem. There are some announcements, some statements, which is typical of this Government: you have made numerous announcements, some even contradictory and some that we still have to understand - I am talking about the economic part - but we will talk about it later because we have not yet understood the announcements on pensions, incomes, citizenships, if 9 billion divided 9,000 euros makes a million or makes 6 and a half million, as some new economists theorize. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In short, there is also a reform of mathematics that seems to me the real reform that this Government is doing. The numbers have changed. Not only the electoral ones, for Christ's sake, we've seen them, but also the pension numbers. For example, today, colleagues, Carabinieri General Commander Giovanni Nistri, held a hearing at the Joint Defence Commissions of the House and Senate. Several colleagues from various groups participated and Giovanni Nistri told us, talking about the Carabinieri - but the same goes for the Police or the Fire Department - that there are 93,000, they have a number of people who will soon retire and that there will be a peak of retirements in 2025 based on certain generational calculations according to which in that year an exodus is expected. So if we don't increase the staff, we won't be able to guarantee the ordinary garrisons. All my colleagues, even today in the Commission, complained, for example, about the closure of the police station in such a place or because they would like a more gifted police station. We also read, in these days, the struggle that the Government does: we increase in Rome, we reduce from somewhere else, it is not true. In short: you do what you can with the short blanket. Today General Nistri told us in a formal hearing that they need recruitment or will not guarantee a series of garrisons. He said this in a polite and respectful manner by Parliament and the institutions. Now we don't see these hirings. Government colleagues, they were not there during the summer because Minister Tria did not sign the request that Minister Salvini praised. In this decree-law you will tell us, when we propose them, that this is not the seat. The seat is the law of stability. There was talk of a billion and this morning I read half a billion in the papers. Between half a billion and one billion, if math hasn't been reformed, there's a half-life. It doesn't take a lot of expertise. We also read in today's newspapers that half a billion, which is not a billion, will be used for recruitment not only in the security and defence sector, but also in the judiciary and administrative staff. There is no text and, therefore, we will talk about it later. I'll tell you in future. Don't say we didn't say that. We share a policy of security and greater severity with regard to immigration. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Bonfrisco]] We have no doubt about that. We are the governments that have made agreements to block the departures of illegal immigrants from North Africa. Now the government may not even be able to organize the Palermo Conference because it is not known whether Haftar or Serraj will go there. We have even read that the heads of the secret services have asked to be replaced because they are due and the interlocutors no longer talk to them because they know that they are going to leave for a change also physiological. The government, however, does not replace them. Why didn't you agree on replacements? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Looks like RAI warheads. Be careful not to confuse: do not put a prefect on the news and a journalist to the secret services, in case the leaflets at Palazzo Chigi mix. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In conclusion, we will not vote on these prejudices. We will make a substantial contribution to the decree-law because we need instruments. I think of the prison police and the hiring, which must be decided immediately. For the covers there is no problem; they are found for everything. If you have to outrun the deficit, do it to hire cops, carabinieri and financiers. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] At least there will be a fundamental ratio and not to show that with 9 billion you pay 6.5 million citizenship income, while, being 9,000 a year, you pay one million. We announce a strong, positive and proactive attention to the addition of rules that we will also ask for on the issues of immigration, the strengthening of local police, police officers, weapons and technological equipment and also on the criminal part. We will certainly compete with you, but at the service of the citizens. We will not lend ourselves to the blocking of this decree-law, but we will not take it in a closed box, because the titles do not satisfy us, we want the substance! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] . Many congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u85	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, in the knowledge that the political debate often tends to get away from the substance of the agenda and from the issues under discussion, I would like to try to bring back the debate on the substance of the vote on the preliminary rulings, remembering that, if we look at the past even recently, it is possible to note that on several occasions the legislator has used the instrument of the decree of urgency in order to regulate matters similar to what is being discussed today. It is thought that, between the end of the XII and the beginning of the XIII legislature, there is a chain of six decree-laws with urgent provisions on immigration policy and on the regulation of entry and residence in the national territory of citizens of countries not belonging to the European Union. It is clear, therefore, that the Government, in the correct exercise of its legislative function, does not go beyond the constitutionally guaranteed powers under Article 77 of the Constitution, going to intervene in matters covered by the law reserve, to which is also attributable the instrument of the decree-law. This without considering the functional link between the decree-law and the law of conversion that, far from healing any vices of the decree-law (which we do not see), guarantees its legal and political development. As also stated by the Constitutional Court, the reasons for the process of economics justify the existence of this bipartite legislative procedure between a measure of the Government and its subsequent conversion in Parliament. With respect to the merit of the many things said in the last speeches, there will be the opportunity, in the discussion of the bill of conversion of the decree-law, to develop some topics that have been touched on in these statements: many of these do not convince us, but we will support it in the appropriate forum, which is precisely that of the parliamentary debate on the draft law of conversion. That is why the Movimento 5 Stars will vote against the preliminary questions before us. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u86	Pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred to the Senator De Petris and other Senators (QP1) and Senator Marcucci and other Senators (QP2), referring to the bill n. 840. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u87	The next item is the debate on documents XXII, Nos. 1, 8 and 9. The rapporteur, Senator Vono, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and members of the Government, the document we are examining concerns the proposal, communicated to the Presidency on 5 July, for the establishment of a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide and all forms of gender-based violence. During the 17th legislature, this Commission had already been established and - as can be seen from the final report, approved in February 2018 - carried out a significant activity of hearings and investigations into the real dimensions of the phenomenon in order to achieve a reconstruction and evaluation of the legal framework and judicial protection. However, being here today, 16 October 2018, and once again talking about setting up a Committee of Inquiry to deepen the real dimensions of feminicide puts me in a position to reflect on a principle: there is still gender discrimination and this, in itself, is already violence. [[Applause from Senator Donno]] We should have realized by now that feminicide is not only the act of killing a woman, but it is the term understanding of all the abuses that a woman can suffer during her life. [[Brusio.]] President. - I cannot do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u89	The lack of respect for a colleague is also a form of violence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u90	I am convinced that, in order to deepen the real dimensions of the phenomenon, we must start from this very reflection, simple to the appearance, but full of contents, if we prescind from the consideration of the phenomenon as a physical aggression of a man against a woman and include in our examination all harassment, psychologically, socio-economically, miners, vexatory and sexually. However, I cannot fail to focus briefly on legislative measures in this area and, in particular, to stress the global importance of the 2011 Istanbul Convention, the first legally binding international instrument on the protection of women's rights against all forms of violence. Unlike any other legislative action in this area, the Convention has clearly recognised that the key to preventing violence against women is the achievement of gender equality, in fact and in law. The Convention states: "violence against women" means a violation of human rights and a form of discrimination against women, including all acts of violence based on gender which cause or are liable to cause physical, sexual, psychological or economic harm or suffering, including threats to perform such acts, coercion or arbitrary deprivation of liberty, both in public life and in private life." Following the recognition of the Convention in 2013, the Government intervened with a decree-law, then converted into law, which introduced measures in substantive and procedural criminal law aimed at combating gender violence and the provision of an extraordinary plan of action to implement the provisions on prevention and repression contained in the Convention itself. In this way, domestic violence, which is mainly agitated by men against women, especially among the domestic walls, has been legally recognised, precisely in the context considered safer, and in whose definition there are multiple actions and behaviors that all aim at the affirmation of power and control over the other person, his action and thinking. This type of violence is often directly linked to the concept of assisted violence, also recognized by the law, referring above all to children forced to attend, thus experiencing any form of ill-treatment, episodes of violence in the detriment of reference family figures or other emotionally significant, adult and minor figures. As far as the specific attention of this Commission for Femicide is concerned, it does not extend to me, and it seems to me that the definition of the term given by the anthropologist Marcela Lagarde is exhaustive: The extreme form of gender-based violence against women, resulting from the violation of its human rights in the public and private spheres, through various misogynistic conducts (...) which involve the impunity of the conduct carried out both at the social level and by the State and which, by placing the woman in a defenceless and risky position, can culminate in the killing or attempted killing of the woman herself. Today gender violence is studied and analysed with respect to its various social, anthropological and cultural aspects that have great importance, also in every branch of human sciences, psychology, literature and politics, highlighting the diversity of matter with the heterogeneity not only of personal and family relationships, but also of different visions of the world. However, from any angle one can see that today this phenomenon is a real social and cultural emergency that knows no geographical boundaries, distinctions of culture, differences and social status. All that has been said, I am going to list the wording of the measure under discussion today for the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide and all forms of gender-based violence. The institution is provided for in Article 1 with special attention to feminicide. The duration of the Commission shall be one year after the Bureau has been established. This duration is motivated by the aim of this Commission to consolidate the work carried out during the last parliamentary term. In fact, since the previous Commission has carried out extensive hearings and surveys of the phenomenon, it is now right to work more specifically in order to identify in a timely manner the changes and, above all, the regulatory innovations that may have to be made to what already exists and more rapid bureaucratic mechanisms for proper prevention of the phenomenon. Paragraph 5 of Article 6 on the Commission's operating expenditure has also been amended with regard to the reduced duration. Article 2 deals with the tasks and functions of the Commission, which must carry out investigations, investigations and checks, paying particular attention to educational projects carried out in schools of all order and grade precisely in order to develop a true culture of prevention and acceptance and enhancement of all diversity, beginning with gender. I think, however, that precisely in Article 2 (i) is the real objective of the work of the Parliamentary Commission: to propose regulatory action. Sometimes it would be enough even to apply existing laws or to use common sense because, precisely because of the peculiarity of the phenomenon in which there are direct victims of acts of violence, it would be appropriate to broaden the gaze and think of new instruments that do not consist only in ways and repressive measures against those who commit violence, thus relegating the severity of the phenomenon to any act of violence, almost reducing its gravity, thinking that they have achieved the aim of obtaining justice only at the time of imposition of the penalty for the crime committed. We should think of measures which also include, and above all, a methodology for prevention, psychological accompaniment and rehabilitation. Indeed, an appropriate prevention network and an effective contrast to all forms of gender violence should be established through a concrete review of the Extraordinary Action Plan already planned, allowing the organisation of structured pathways as well as a fairer distribution of funds and economic resources between existing structures, also taking into account the specificities of the same and the needs of victims, based on good practices already carried out at territorial level, including through actions by private actors. All this without forgetting that the State must be the most involved in any action. I conclude by saying this with the hope that each of us, apart from our commitment to the Commission, in Parliament, and our attention to the phenomenon of feminicide and violence in all its ways, will want to ensure that we: promote a culture that does not discriminate against women, prevent male violence against women, protect all victims of violence, punish, that is, prosecute crimes, provide compensation and compensation, not only in economic terms but also in terms of moral and psychological assistance. Finally, if you will allow me, I want to address all women, making them mine, so that they may be of warning, the words of Rita Levi Montalcini: The women who changed the world never needed to show anything except their intelligence. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u91	I ask the representative of the government if you wish to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u92	Mr President, I turn to the rapporteur's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u93	We shall now proceed to the vote on the articles of document XXII, No 9, in the text put forward by the Commission. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u96	Masini (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, while anticipating my Group's vote in favour of this article, I would like to draw the House's attention to the concerns that give us the time limit provided for in the rapporteur's amendment. The reduction of the duration of the Commission's activity to a single year, starting from its establishment, will in fact not allow the full conduct of an in-depth investigation into the real size or causes of the phenomenon, and will make it more difficult to highlight all the information necessary to propose solutions to strengthen rules of a preventive and contrasting nature. Therefore, it would have been more appropriate for us not to amend the original text of Article 1 which provided that the Commission's term of office would coincide with that of the legislature.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u99	VALENT (PD). Mr President, just a few days ago the Nobel Peace Prize was won by a young Yazida activist, who, kidnapped in 2014 by ISIS, after three months of kidnapping managed to escape and since then, with the strength and courage of words, tells the world of the violence suffered, and, with her, a Congolese doctor became one of the world's leading experts in the treatment of physical damage due to sexual abuse. It would be difficult for our debate today not to start from here, from the meaning and strength of this important recognition. A recognition that tells a lot of how violence against women today represents one of the most atrocious and unbearable acts of oppression and war of a human being over another human being, how much in those gestures there is the aberrant and destructive search for the affirmation of a power, a dominion, a piece of humanity over another piece of humanity, of a genre over another genre. In the previous parliamentary term this has been done; I do not quote everything for reasons of brevity and to stay at the point of the article, but one thing I want to say. It was then made aware of the need to deal with a complex issue (as the report has just shown), which was difficult, which required that they get their hands on many different sectors and that action be taken in the course of the work to ensure the organicity and systematic nature of the interventions. We have done so and we have done our choices well, but then we also decided to have a Commission because it was necessary for the instruments put in place to be tested and tested, in the knowledge that too little yet emerges compared to what is consumed every day. Aware therefore of the partiality of the work, we chose to create a single chamber parliamentary committee of inquiry on feminicide, because rigour, seriousness, responsibility - which are by their nature far from propaganda, promises and announcements - impose doubts not certainties, require a constant verification of the work done and the effectiveness of the instruments identified. It was evident that this work could not be completed quickly, even though it was carried out in the best possible way. That is why we have retabled and put forward the proposal to re-establish the Commission in this parliamentary term, and we were glad that so many other political forces, both majority and non-majority, have added to our proposal. That is why we are surprised and, at the same time, we are disappointed at the decision to keep the Commission alive for just one year, to set it up with such a short deadline. The same people who accused us last time that there was little time to make it work properly (i.e. the Members of the League) today support the uselessness of such a long time. This time it is too delicate a phenomenon to speculate; it is a dramatic phenomenon to make propaganda and we really ask you not to do so too. For us, the right choice was to keep the Commission going for the entire legislature. Instead, you put us before another choice: one year's work, one year's work, one year's work. We are sure that for the work to be done, for the checks to be carried out, for the data still to be collected, for the things to be accomplished will not be enough. We are sure, however, that the decision to start again from the work already done by the previous Commission will help us and will give us a good starting point, but obviously it will not be enough for us. Nevertheless, in the conviction that always, and in particular on a subject of this kind, the best is the enemy of good, for today we say better that nothing, trusting in the fact that in a year, if there is still the need, you will leave on the logical side of battle or political speculation and you will choose thinking only of the interest of those women - unfortunately many - who still ask us to help, who ask us never to turn on the other side; who ask politics that violence on their lives, on their bodies, end up being a private fact to finally become a public fact, thus getting to invest our consciences and to impose on us the need to strengthen on this ground a battle that is, above all else, a cultural, civil and social battle. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u102	GRASSI (M5S). Mr President, just to point out, for the sake of political clarity, that at the time of the vote on the proposals for a preliminary ruling on draft law No 840 I was far from my post and I did not have time to vote. It seems to me appropriate to point out that, if I had been in my place, my vote would have been against.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u103	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u106	CONZACTS (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all certainly want a society in which human beings have the same rights and can live with the same freedoms. We certainly share the principles of our Constitution about the absence of distinctions of race, religion and language, and the more we share no distinction whatsoever. We therefore wonder why we are still here today to reaffirm the importance and the need to set up the Committee of Inquiry in question. It is important and important to say so, because the dimension of the global, European and national phenomenon is immense. The World Health Organization has conducted an examination of 81 countries in the world and has verified that 35% of women have suffered some form of violence in their lives: segregation, deprivation, intimidation, stalking, forced prostitution - do you feel how much violence? - sexual violence, genital mutilation, child abuse, assisted violence, forced marriage, selective abortion, feminicide. They're boulders. This has happened to 35 percent of women throughout their lives. It is a bit better in Europe, but not much, since this has happened to 25% of women. Certainly it is not better because of Italy, because once again, not only on economic issues, but also on issues of gender respect, Italy is a taillight. In Italy, one in three women, between the ages of sixteen and seventy, suffered one of these violence. Even girls and girls under 16 in 10 percent of cases have suffered violence. Women are killed: a woman every two and a half days: today yes, tomorrow no, the day after tomorrow yes. It still happens today, while we are here, and this in a civil and democratic country should not be possible. That is why it is essential to set up the Commission in question and, at the end of its work, it will be essential to carry out further work with the Parliamentary Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, provided for in draft law 313. We need integrated work, including legislation prevention plans, support for women in society and help for children who are witnessing such violence. Above all, however, we need the Copernican revolution that introduced the Istanbul Convention, which made it clear that the problem is not the victims of violence but the abusers, the violent and 90% of the cases the violent are men. Therefore, the theme that Europe has set itself and that Italy approved in 2013 is to ask men for a cultural change, so that even in Italy, especially in Italy, there can be relations free from violence. So let there be no hesitation in this House, in Parliament, but let the Commission set up immediately and then the Commission for Gender Equality. We give legs to a regulation that has evolved, even recently, in Italy. In Italy we had a regulatory system, which until sixty years ago was marked by violence. Only in 1956 was the ius corrigendi abolished, in 1981 the attenuating for honor and the repairing marriage were abolished. Only in 1996 did we realize that carnal violence is not a crime against morality, but a crime against the person. We have taken important steps from the regulatory point of view: let us also do them from the real point of view. We want this for Italy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u107	Colleagues, I would like to remind you that in the examination of a measure from the drawing-up office, as at the moment, the rapporteur speaks, there is no general debate, we vote on the articles and only the final explanations of vote are made. If a simple announcement of vote is made on the articles, in which the speaker says how he intends to vote and why, I admit it. Otherwise, the general discussion would be re-introduced surreptitiously. So, either you have a reference office or a writing office, and in this case we are discussing a provision from the writing office.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u110	GINETTI (PD). Mr President, I rise to declare our vote in favour of Article 2 of the proposal for our examination, which gives the Commission tasks and objectives, starting with the continuation of those investigations into the real size and causes of the feminicide initiated in the last parliamentary term by the first Commission of Inquiry into Feminicide. The data collected by that Commission, the data provided by the prosecutors, the police forces, but also the more than four hundred judgments analysed - issued from 2012 to 2016 - confirm a figure: women, for more than 75% of cases, continue to die at the hands of men in a family environment, within the framework that should have protected them more. What has not been possible to draw up a precise statistic in the last legislature is on the motive: relationships with obsessive and obsessive jealousies submissive, also for economic reasons. Too many cases of acquittal even for mental illness (over 53 percent of the acquittals), while the penalties imposed, for over twenty years, have played no deterrent function, and women continue to die at the hands of men. One of the tasks of the Commission will then be to investigate the causes, while giving these women the opportunity to have places to denounce violence and ill-treatment: anti-violence centers, First Aid, Forces of Order, provided with personnel readily trained to accept and recognize the risks. In fact, women often do not denounce and also make Italian data appear incomprehensible compared to those of the rest of Europe. A cultural problem, therefore, which undoubtedly involves education to respect, respect for others, the recognition of equal rights and duties in the diversity of roles and tasks carried out, the complexity and difficulties for women in reconciling work and family care, not yet on a level playing field. Much has been done in the last parliamentary term: the introduction of the case of assisted violence, the remission of the complaint only at the trial stage, the interceptions for stalking, the legal patronage of the victims. It will therefore be the task of this Commission to pay attention to the effects and monitoring of existing legislation, even in comparison with European legislation. But let me say, Mr President, that it will also be very important for this Commission to deal with the impact assessment that the new proposals for amending the law can produce, so that domestic violence, which often precedes and announces murder, is taken over by the courts at the time of separation and divorce, to protect the offended party, but above all to protect and in the interests of children, for whom no form of compulsory mediation can be invoked, as stated in the Istanbul Convention. Any mediation which excludes the judge's assessment cannot, in our opinion, be resolved. We risk retreating from recent achievements and from the very principle of equality, conquered with difficulty and perhaps never yet fully implemented; an equality that we demand is exercised as a couple, in marriage, between spouses, even before divorce. I will conclude, Mr President, by pointing out that affirming the culture of respect is an expression of civil progress to which school, sport and common language must contribute. It is certainly the task of the legislator to work in this direction. That is why we are voting in favour of Article 2. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u111	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u114	BINETTI (FI-BP). Mr President, Article 3 is the article of the 'like': how this Commission should operate; it does not question either the'sé' or the 'whé', which it gives to acquire with the previous articles. But, of course, it is an article on which we will of course vote in favour, because, after so many repeated complaints that have been made, after the dramatic data that have been evoked several times in this House, even in the last few minutes, of one feminicide every three minutes, it is impossible to believe that such situations are still created and, above all, that female violence takes on nuances of a complexity that can be present in all social circles, in all cultural contexts, in all professional areas. We used to consider violence as a cultural byproduct. On the other hand, we realize that the violent could be - like to say - next to us at any time, but we cannot understand how this violence can become a real object of denunciation in times that allow an early intervention and therefore avoid the degeneration, for example, of feminicide. But it's not just feminicide that worries us. Above all, we are concerned about the spread of a constant and continuous denunciation, which is creating as a sort of avalanche reaction. Therefore, we realize that what the President pointed out a few minutes ago is also violent: the simple fact that, when a colleague speaks, the level of the buzz of the House makes it somewhat more difficult to identify her voice and makes it more difficult to focus what she is saying. This too, the President said, is violence: it is an extraordinary example of the concreteness of the small gestures which, in some way, mortify the feminine. Equally serious, it has been said several times, is the violence that is perpetrated at the economic level through the known discrimination, as women are paid 20% less. It is undeniable the violence that is done also through the selection of people, through the sexist language that is used on social media. I believe that the task of this Commission will be to identify the thousand forms of violence, starting precisely from the violence of everyday life, in order to increase the level of sensitivity of all of us and to transform a Commission of inquiry, not only as an instrument of denunciation, but also as an appropriate occasion to change behaviour and to re-appropriate respect for the dignity of women, which is nothing more than respect for the dignity of each of us. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u115	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u116	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u118	PAPATHEU (FI-BP). Mr President, we are here to vote on Rule 4, which states that the Commission is composed of twenty senators, appointed by the President of the Senate in proportion to the number of members of the parliamentary groups but also ensuring balanced representation of genders. So, ladies and gentlemen, please pay the utmost attention. I myself, listening to the other speeches, have had the opportunity to know aspects of this incredible drama, which concerns all of us and, when I say all of us, I am not only talking about women, but also men, who unfortunately are the protagonists of these actions. I would therefore like to invite the male senators who will be part of the Commission not to forget their role as husbands - sometimes - of boyfriends and especially of fathers because today, when we read the newspapers, we see that this murderous fury is unfortunately pouring out on children, who become innocent victims of this phenomenon that has hit and hit our country in recent years in a growing way. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I had written a few thoughts which were also made by many of my colleagues and which I therefore do not want to repeat. Of course, I am struck by the fact that these phenomena are on the increase: even 30% more than last year. This Commission must therefore work and I would like to thank the Members who are present. Today we have all voted with the heart, which is the most important thing - for the first time I have seen the voting board light up in a certain way - but let us not forget that, if it is true that we senators are called to change, change must also be mentioned in improving living conditions, certainly those of the weakest groups, among which there are unfortunately women still today. I am proud to say that it was the Forza Italia Group - together of course with all of you, oppositions and all political forces - that introduced the crime of feminicide into the penal code, which unfortunately in Sicily, in my land, was also the subject of media attention, as well as of theatricality and spectacularization, of which today I am almost ashamed, because in fact behind the theatre and cinema there were real deaths. I remember, among other things, that the crime of honour was only recently abolished. Therefore, the hope is that, above all, fellow men who will be members of the Commission will work with the diligence of the good father of his family, because they are fathers, husbands and, above all, senators of the Republic. [[Applause from the FI-BP and M5S groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u121	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, I actually wanted to speak earlier, but what I will say applies both to the previous vote and to the next one. As a father and companion, I think that certain instruments should be strengthened and implemented. It must be an all-out battle because often, in the face of certain violence and harassment, the answer has not been clear: there have been distinctions, they have been dropped but the first crack opens there. Worse was when silence came down, which sometimes becomes omerty which, as you know, is separated from a subtle line by complicity and we cannot Let's have it. That is why we must all stand up and say that we are not on the same side and that we are all on the same side, men and women. We have to do this together. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Together, with the same intensity and determination, we can fight this battle of civilization, which is cultural and social, even before politics. There are women who are harassed and humiliated in the home. You see, there is very strong attention to the external threat, to the threat that comes from outside, from outside the country or from outside the country. In these weeks and months the message that has passed is that the danger comes from outside, very often from those who are different, maybe from those who have a different skin color and no longer distinguish between men, women and children, as in the case of Lodi, for which there is only one adjective: shameful. These are the violence that we want to denounce, with great strength and determination; these are situations in which prevarication is sometimes psychological in order to lead then to physical violence and those who suffer it end up feeling imprisoned, alone, deprived of their freedom, unable to react. Femicide is often the ultimate, most tragic act of these vexations that are repeated. It is for this reason that we want to do this battle together, men and women, with the deep conviction that love must be conquered, cultivated, guarded and never - I say never - stolen. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u122	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u125	BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'd like to point out that I couldn't vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u126	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u127	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u129	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, we know the data, but we must always quote them in order not to forget the seriousness of the phenomenon: one in three murders is a feminicide, 121 women lost their lives only last year, one every five days, every sixty hours. We know that feminicides occur mainly in the context of a separation, when a woman wants to start a new life. Unfortunately, the maleistic conception, according to which the woman is considered a property, is still in the head of too many men, for whom a separation represents a damage to that male honor that until 1981 was covered in an infamous norm of the penal code, the one that provides for a reduction of the penalty in cases of feminicide subsequent to a betrayal by the woman. And then the question to ask is what should be done to counter the phenomenon. On the one hand, the preventive protection introduced by the 2001 Act must be strengthened, but this has not led to the expected results. It is not acceptable for certain women who have denounced the partner to continue to suffer violent behavior because the state has not been able to guarantee adequate protection. The precautionary measures of non-approach to the former spouse and children must be better monitored and in this sense the electronic bracelet proposed with the security decree would be an efficient measure, of course always provided that the State obtains them, since today they are missing where it is needed. In addition, crimes of beatings and personal injury and mistreatment in the family must be taken more seriously by the Forces of Order, because they are often the first signs of violence in a spiral that leads to feminicide. It is no longer tolerable for so many women who decide to denounce violence to be told that they have to resolve the quarrel in the family. We need forces of order that are sensitized and prepared with appropriate training to combat the scourge of violence against women. The social condemnation of those who commit violence must be absolute and general, without mitigating of any kind and we must raise women's awareness of their autonomy and freedom from all forms of psychological, material or social abuse. Only in this way will women find more and more the strength to denounce or distance themselves because they will feel around themselves a network of social protection and solidarity, but above all we must all work to reach a society where men and women are on the same level, because feminicide is the extreme point of degeneration of that hateful culture that denies equal opportunities and dignity to men and women. Unfortunately in places of power women are still under-represented, advertising portrays them mainly as a sexual object and for important positions in the Italian language they still resort to male. It is also on this that we must work with effective rules, on the one hand, and a strong cultural initiative, on the other. That is why this Commission is welcome and that it can work decisively towards these objectives. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u130	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u132	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we have been using the word 'feminicide' for years, we have written it many times to denounce what is happening in Italy and in other countries, to inform and make people understand. What happens around us, however, is not a coincidence, it is not the result of a raptus of madness. I still feel someone who thinks that those who kill their partners or children are taken only by a raptus of madness; it is not passion, it is not jealousy, it is not love. This is still unclear for most public opinion and often for the media. We know that some words distract, are frightened by the awareness they evoke and the responsibilities they denounce. The term "feminicide" is one of these words, which was born precisely to indicate that the killings of women are done as women. Girls killed by partners or fathers because they may refuse marriage that is imposed or obsessive control over their lives. There are also prejudices regarding the victims: if a girl is killed, considered well by the whole community, she deserves full victim status; if another woman is killed who, perhaps, is a little less considered by the community, she exercises prejudice, which also feeds the mechanism of violence. Marcela Lagarde, a Mexican anthropologist, argues that the word "feminicide" refers to a structural problem that goes beyond murder and concerns all forms of discrimination and gender violence that have the brutal force to cancel the woman in her identity and freedom, not only physically, but also in the psychological dimension, sociality and participation in public life. It is therefore important to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry into feminicide, but that is not enough. It is an instrument that we must use to continue to carry out a great battle, which is above all cultural and political, in the true and full sense of the word. By Law No 77 of 27 June 2013, Italy ratified and implemented the Istanbul Convention, which Parliament voted unanimously. It asked the Member States for very concrete commitments, including the support and strengthening of anti-violence centres and a careful prevention work, starting with schools. All those who have dealt with male violence against women know well that the phenomenon has deep cultural roots and that, in order to be able to intervene effectively, it is essential to start working with the new generations, on children and children, on those who have the possibility not to sedimentate on their own prejudices and gender stereotypes, which lead precisely to indelible failures in interpersonal relations. That is why the Istanbul Convention, in Article 14, provides for, for example, the introduction of a form of education to affectivity in schools of every order and grade; a normal choice, which has not yet been made in our country. For years, anti-violence centres have been waiting for funding of the National Plan. We are talking about figures with which we can barely pay the bills, yet despite the fact that there are few euros, despite the pressure of the networks and the continuous interventions, even by many Members, there are still many difficulties. It is important for our Commission to share from the statistical data which are to be found in the dossier on the feminicide of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry of the last parliamentary term. It's dramatic data. In 2017, 113 victims of feminicide were killed; in 2016, 115 women were killed in Italy; in 2015 120 victims were killed. This year the numbers do not seem to be less comforting, just as every day we are confirmed by the chronicles. For this reason, attention has certainly also increased to this serious form of violence, the positions taken, the strong consciences of women and men have also multiplied. However, we need to go deeper, we also need a culture of listening to the victim, starting from the recognition that feminicide, stalking and ill-treatment, in addition to sexual violence, are forms of gender-based violence, directed - precisely - against women as women. We need to start from here, from the data I mentioned, to collect other data from a gender perspective, to understand whether women who ask for help are really protected or if, instead, they are left alone. Often there are no places to welcome them, the funds are not enough, the shelter houses often close, or women do not receive accurate information, they think that if they denounce they cannot have protection because perhaps no one has fully informed them of the existence of the possibility of civil removal orders. Therefore, we must investigate thoroughly, we must put in place proposals and instruments that can help women, multiply the anti-violence centres, introduce regulatory changes to existing laws, intervene, for example, on the formation of the Forces of Order, and for this reason we must insist even more and work. It also happens that while we are about to vote today on the establishment of this Commission (the Senators of the LEU Group will of course vote in favour) elsewhere, even in this Senate, they are launching draft laws which are certainly not helping women. I am thinking, for example, of the so-called Bill Pillon, or of other measures which it is good for this Commission to have the opportunity to monitor. Therefore, the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry is absolutely important, but we must find a way to fully unravel all aspects of this dramatic problem and call to their responsibilities men, those who have public roles and hold positions of prestige, and the institutions. Needless to say, there have certainly been so many steps forward in these years. The attention has grown, as well as training, also from the cultural point of view; certainly there has been a different attitude of protection but we still have a lot to do. The road is long and if today the UN speaks of feminicide also in relation to Italy it is because here there have been women who for years have claimed recognition - also for women as women - of those human rights established at the universal level and in particular of the inalienable right to life and mental and physical integrity. The rights, in fact, live only where they are claimed as such, otherwise they remain intended for mere formal recognition on paper. For Italy this is a great battle of civilization and the Commission must have the task of realizing these rights. That is why the Senators of Liberi and Equal will vote in favour of the document at our examination. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u133	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u135	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, I start with a few facts to reconstruct the evidence of a phenomenon that remains mostly submerged. According to the Eures Observatory, every two and a half days in Italy a woman is killed because of her being a woman - which means a woman every sixty hours - and as the number of murders drops, the number of murders of women, the so-called feminicides, is increasing, which is 36.7 percent of the total. And again - and they are not just numbers but people - in the first six months of 2018 about 2,600 cases of violence were reported. This is mostly domestic violence but statistics tell us that group violence is also growing and that the number of minors involved is increasing. But every fact continues to represent the classic tip of the classic iceberg, and in fact the World Health Organization also confirms that gender violence is a structural issue, a phenomenon of global dimensions that defines a scourge, a social scourge that represents the first cause of death of women. In short, ladies and gentlemen, it is a world that crosses the world, a social disease that crosses all geographical latitudes, all ethnic belongings, all social classes, religions and age. There are 7 million women who have suffered some form of violence in their lives and in the last ten years - I want to say this and emphasize it, because there is always too little thought - there are over 1,700 orphans of feminicide. Feminicide is a term that we use and do not know, an ancient neologism - I would like to say - recently entered into the linguistic dictionary and in the current speech, but that tells a secular evil. That's why I'm talking about an ancient neologism. It is perhaps a new word, even if the phenomenon in history has always been happening everywhere. Why do we use a new word? We use it to strengthen a concept and to articulate the concept that tells us about the killing of a woman because of her being a woman. By extension, feminicide is not only this, but any form of systematic violence exercised on women, of which murder represents the extreme act, but which is usually preceded by a repeated series of violent conducts, in the absence of an alleged subalternity of the female gender. The term feminicide - words make sense - is an interpretative category because it introduces into culture and, in some countries, also into the law a different perception of violence against women. These are human rights violations. That's the point. The American criminologist Diana Russel, who canonized this term, meant the voluntary murder of a woman as a woman. The Mexican anthropologist and MP Marcela Lagarde, who gave an extensive interpretation at the end, stigmatized the concept and that, indeed, in the Mexican Parliament not only introduced a Commission, like ours, of inquiry into feminicide, but also came to denounce that aspect of customary law that causes a murder of women to be less serious than a murder. Lagarde has always managed, on the basis of the Commission's work, to introduce into the country's code the crime of feminicide or its aggravating (a new case and an aggravating one). There is no such crime in Europe in any way, as it does not exist in Italy. Nevertheless, we use this term, and we must use it with a sense of responsibility. Much more could be said by touching everyone's consciences in this House, but we must start with an assumption. The establishment of the Commission that we are debating today is in line with a need, with international directives and, last but not least, with the Istanbul Convention, which Italy not only signed, but also ratified among the former. The Istanbul Convention - let us never forget this - is the first international, legally binding instrument to protect women, to prevent domestic violence and to prosecute wrongdoers, reaffirming that principle, now enshrined in international law, of violence against women as a violation of fundamental human rights. There are many stages that lead to this achievement and this affirmation. I only want to remember four of the many I could. I am starting with the first, the reform of family law in 1975 and the abolition of the so-called murder of honour in 1981; I was twenty years old. And then again, I quote the law of the laws on the subject: Law No 66 of 1996, the result of a parliamentary debate, which lasted over fifteen years, in order to reach a transversal understanding and to establish a principle that young people may take for granted, but which was not taken for granted. In fact, it is only with the law of 1996 - my son was already a year old - that sexual violence is no longer committed against public morality and good custom, but is committed against the person: a late conquest - I would say - in a civilized country. Moreover, the third fundamental stage is Law No. 38 of 2009, the so-called anti-stalking law, that law that fills a serious and dangerous gap, introducing a new crime on the conducts of repeated persecution. Finally, there is Law No. 119 of 2013, which strengthens the provisions of the so-called anti-stalking law, introducing aggravating and fundamental novelties. I do not go into regulatory detail, but we improperly call it anti-feminicide law, when it is not, because there is no such crime, but it is a law that punishes the perpetrators of violence. In conclusion, we need to continue on the path we have already taken, and we believe that the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide should also be set up in this parliamentary term. And we believe this not only on the basis of those data that I have told you, but because it is a real requirement; do not think that it is female rhetoric and do not think that on matters of this kind there can be an ideological copyright. It is a real need, because there is a structural and complex phenomenon, with quantitative dimensions, but above all with qualitative involvement of victims and people. The Brothers of Italy Group will vote in favour of the establishment of the Commission, although - I would stress this - there is unfortunately no monitoring among its tasks, which is a very sensitive and controversial aspect, because in Italy we have estimates, but not statistics, and this aspect is a vulnus of the Commission. We will vote for its institution even if it lacks, in the context of violence against women, all that abominable practice of the uterus for rent, which is a practice of commodification on the female body. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] I hope that this emptiness will be filled in the Commission's work and that this exploitation of the female body, which is the exploitation of women's poverty, will be sincerely spoken of. Despite these shortcomings, we will vote in favour of the Commission's establishment because we believe it is necessary and useful for the qualitative and quantitative dimension of gender violence and because this battle is imposed as a challenge of civilization and as cultural education and feelings. It is not a question of women - and I am glad that colleagues have also spoken - and it is not an individual fact, but it is the defence of a common good, of fundamental rights and individual freedoms. This is a commitment that calls everyone, no one excluded, to an assumption of collective and shared responsibility, in the conviction that the laws alone are not enough, in the conviction that the special Commissions alone are not enough, if they are not accompanied by a cultural change and mentality. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u136	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u138	FADELI (PD). Mr President, I would like to stress - as the rapporteur of the document has also said - that we are continuing the work of the last parliamentary term, also in this parliamentary term, by setting up the Commission again. I want to highlight some aspects, the first of which is that there is quality in the choice made by the Senate of the Republic, because we do not have a bicameral Commission on this matter; we had to think about it and we should think about it later. Why is the establishment of the Commission important in this parliamentary term too? First of all, it is important for the reasons of content on which many Members have already addressed themselves, and on which I will also return. However - allow me, Mr President - there is also an important point of method. Indeed, those who have read carefully and understood the Istanbul Convention and Law No 77 of 27 June 2013, which has transposed it, know - it has been said in the previous intervention and also in others - that their implementation presupposes an ability to modify a set of behaviors that must be monitored, modified and implemented. It is, that is, a terrain that overturns customs, cultural habits and the wrong quality of relations between men and women. For this reason, the establishment of the Commission in this parliamentary term also has an extremely important significance. We must follow the implementation of this law, and not only because we must also equip ourselves with the numbers - statistics are important - but also because it is important to monitor the necessary changes conceptually. That's what I'm allowed to say. Why have we had a perplexity - even if the Democratic Party will vote in favour of the institution also in this legislative term of the Commission - about the fact that the duration of the Commission has been limited (only one year since the Bureau was set up)? The reading of the phenomenon and its complexity, in order to overcome and counter the feminicide and all forms of violence and discrimination against women, needs a long journey, because this phenomenon is not emerging, but it is structural and touches the roots even anthropological of how the relationships of violence, oppression and possession in modern societies have been determined. It is no coincidence that this issue is being addressed not only at national, but also at European and international level. At the same time, I consider it absolutely important that the Commission should start from the work done by the previous Commission. I say two more things. I would like to thank the only male colleague who, at least at this moment, has intervened. Here's an important point. This House is made up of 70% men. The issue of violence against women, stalking and discrimination - that is, what we are facing with the implementation of Law No 77 - speaks to men. If it is not men who personally take responsibility for individual behaviors, political choices and how they relate, it will obviously take a much longer time to deal with them. This is an element of responsibility. I know that in the composition of the Commission we will have to see the presence of men; each party will have to compose its own delegation on the basis of this assumption. Otherwise, if, in the widespread opinion and also in this House, the issue continues to be perceived as concerning women, we are wrong analysis and do not assume responsibility. This means indifference exactly to the fundamental connotation of all this. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] In order to fully ensure the contrast with all this, I am telling you, not only on the elements that concern the support of the victims, an issue on which there is a lot to work and implement. Think about how much we did in the previous legislature, but also where we stopped. We protect victims of violence and put them in protected homes, but then we have to give them the opportunity to return to security in their emotional and working lives. This concerns the issue of women's work, which is not excluded from the implementation of the Istanbul Convention. Then there is an extraordinarily important issue, that of prevention. I would like to say as follows: in the previous parliamentary term we have started guidelines on education to respect the integrity of the person within the training course. But look at the fact that education to respect - it was said to affectivity, which means respect for the integrity of people - is an extraordinarily complex and difficult theme: it means to say both to girls and boys that none and no one is property of another; it means to tell boys that you do not love because you possess or because you prevent the freedom of a yes or a no in affective relationships. It also means to tell the girls that they need to be alert to the signs in affective relationships when, perhaps, they mistaken for a positive act of jealousy. This also means many things in adult education in relation to affective relationships in the family. Well, there is a great responsibility on the ground for prevention. It is precisely on this ground that we must know that the Istanbul Convention speaks to several subjects: it speaks to training courses from early childhood; it speaks to public communication paths - if I may afford - both institutional and media. Even the languages that are used are important from this point of view to create a context in which there is respect or continue to live the classical stereotypes. Let's think about when we're at the bar and we hear jokes like, But he's been looking for it! I am referring precisely to the typical expressions that we regularly listen to. There is, therefore, also a problem of individual responsibility for all of us. We come to an issue of fundamental importance, namely how we will deal with a sensitive concept in this Commission. I am referring to the fact that, whenever you discriminate or stalk or get to feminicide, we are violating not only, of course, the integrity - with feminicide - of a human life. Compared to all the acts that precede it - as the Istanbul Convention says, and as our law says - we are violating a human right and, when it comes to human rights, public responsibility, the State and all its articulations is a fundamental point. It was recalled - as I say - that we were the first Parliament, the first nation to ratify the Istanbul Convention; however, no one says more that, since August 2015, 10 countries in Europe have ratified the same Convention. This has triggered an obligation, from the point of view of the State, with respect to everything that intervenes by discrimination against women up to the feminicide. There is, that is, a direct responsibility of the public institutions - hence, starting with the central state and all its governmental components - on the contrast - as the law says - of every aspect that exactly discriminates and does violence against women. Colleagues, this is an important point because, if there is a direct responsibility, you must also know that it can happen that, in the face of the failure to adopt the elements of prevention, causes can be brought against the State or its joints. I conclude by saying that the establishment of the Commission of inquiry - if I may say so - is not merely a continuation of the Commission's previous parliamentary term; it is rather an important assumption of responsibility. That is why I would like to say that we have at least one commitment with today's vote: at the end of the year of activity, as the measure provides, we come to Parliament to report. On the basis of the report we are going to make to Parliament, we will assess all the changes, but also the need to continue the work. This makes sense and is a reading ability of the complexity of the theme. I think this is a point of great responsibility that we all - and above all everyone - take today in this House. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u139	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u141	CASELATI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, members of the Government, my fellow senators, I sometimes wonder if a new word as a feminicide was necessary to indicate a situation that has always existed, namely violence against women. Probably and fortunately there has been a cultural and legal evolution, on the basis of which we have moved from the crime of honour, still reality in the seventies, to the current regulatory system and to the current perception of the facts. The former neologism "feminicide" is not an additional word on vocabulary, only if it shows a reversal of perspective, i.e. the qualification of an act of violence on the basis not of who is the victim, but of the reason why it was committed. Let me explain better: there is no feminicide when the victim is a woman; there is feminicide when the victim is a woman as a woman. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]] The phenomenon, as well as being studied, must above all be arginated. Without prejudice to the fact that guaranteeing, a founding part of our Constitution and dogma for all those who believe in it, understood as the principle that the accused cannot be considered guilty until a final sentence and according to which the penalty should be re-educational, is a cornerstone, it cannot and must not limit the victims. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is for this reason that this Commission must aim not to produce new investigations, but to draw up proposals to fill regulatory gaps, analysing the data already in our possession, all aimed at providing all those involved with appropriate and appropriate tools for combating the phenomenon. If we want to talk about prevention, we cannot remain deaf to the warning signs that women are launching and that are all too often ignored. It is frustrating, every time we read of a so-called feminicide, to find that it has been preceded by complaints and requests for help that have not been heard. It is humiliating to see that these are often announced tragedies. It is clear, therefore, that prevention measures are not enough and that it is necessary to intervene to provide the law enforcement agencies and the judiciary with more effective tools to protect those women who have the courage to denounce, but also those women who, due to cultural, economic or fear constraints, are forced to suffer and suffer silently. Support should be given to the accompaniment of women who are victims of violence during the process, who often turn against the victims themselves. The anonymity and confidentiality of investigations must be guaranteed and the service of the centres and associations operating on the territory strengthened. In respect of the cornerstone of liberalism, according to which every man's freedom must end only where another man's freedom begins, we must think of organic interventions that allow us to protect the victims before their executioners. In Italy we need clear laws, difficult to interpret, rapid processes and certain penalties. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]] Certain penises: I would like to dwell on this. It is grotesque to remember that the effort of so many women that led to the recognition of the stalking crime has been frustrated by the sudden decriminalization of so many minor but equally hateful crimes, with the so-called decree-law emptied prisons. I would like to focus on the idea of social, educational and training measures. This type of crime, unfortunately, can be fought not with the penal code, but with a cultural evolution that must begin in families, which are the first form of natural society, and in schools; schools that must be not only a place of education, but also of education of the next generations. By communicating the favorable vote of Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione to the institution of the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, for all the above reasons, I would like to conclude by reminding us all the real innocent victims, blameless but never unaware, who go through these family tragedies as silent ghosts: children. The silence of the innocent is what weighs most on our consciences and which I hope will be the main commitment of this Commission. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and FI-BP Groups]] A recommendation is addressed to all of us: let us not lose the opportunity to realize concrete facts, because they are slowed down by ideological differences or cultural background. Let us not be the protagonists of yet another missed opportunity. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and FI-BP Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u142	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u144	Mr Rizzotti (FI-BP). Mr President, feminicide sounds very bad as a word, but it serves to define in an appropriate way the criminal category of crime perpetrated against a woman; brutal murder of a human being, and in this case kills not only a woman, but also her family and her children, who remain orphans: they want to kill, more or less unconsciously, the symbol of the continuity of life. It is necessary to pronounce this word in order to better understand and explain contexts, to try not to trivialize the phenomenon and above all not to reduce it - as sometimes happens - almost to a pure media invention. On the other hand, the numbers speak for themselves: the first nine months of 2018 have seen a surge, an increase of 30 percent compared to 2017 and with 65 women killed since the beginning of January. The phenomenon is not resolved and continues to occur. In 2017 113 women died, two of them were waiting for a child, mostly killed by husbands, comrades or former comrades, unable to accept the end of the relationship or the will of the former companion to rebuild a life outside of him. In addition to the victims, children and children must not be forgotten on the front line, who, following these crimes, have found themselves orphaned by a mother, often with the father in jail, or both parents, in cases of murder-suicide. In Italy there are over 2,000 orphans of feminicide. And in this regard I would like to remember with great pride the battle of Forza Italia in the last parliamentary term, when in the bill for orphans of feminicides, thanks to the first-signed amendment by Mr Carfagna, he obtained a fund of two million euros, to protect orphans. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , because laws are made and are applicable when economic coverage is foreseen. Among other things, Mara Carfagna was the last Minister of Equal Opportunities. To the 60 children who were orphaned in 2017 are added about 20 in the first six months of 2018. They, the secondary victims, are between five and fourteen years old and the prospect of a very difficult life in front of them. Let's remember the last case of a few days ago, when a father threw the six-year-old girl off the balcony, hurting his brother as well. The feminicide, although discovered by the media and taken into consideration by politics only for a few years, is certainly not a phenomenon of today. Male violence against women has a structural character - as has been said - and not an emerging one, as the Istanbul Convention reminds us, which we ratified a few years ago. It is precisely the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention, known as the Istanbul Convention, that has enabled Italy to take a further step in the fight against all forms of violence, especially against women. I confess to you that I am deeply disgusted when a religious leader of some community in our country has the courage to say that it is right to beat a woman when she does not obey. Perhaps I am more disgusted by the lack of shields against these claims. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups and Senators Lanzi and Unterberger]] I didn't see any roundabouts. I didn't see any movement. I believe that, in the defence of women, women in particular must be consistent. You can't make an alternate phase defense. Several times I have been able to strongly reiterate that violence against women is a crime against humanity, which must be repressed in every way possible. I did so on the occasion of the aforementioned ratification or in 2009, when we converted into law, thanks to Minister Carfagna, the last real Minister of Equal Opportunities, the decree-law of the Berlusconi Government on stalking. I would also like to recall what would have happened if there had not been the battle of all the members of the Commission of Inquiry in the last parliamentary term: the former Minister Boschi - decided just before the electoral deadline to make the anti-violence plan, what we had been waiting for for three years - without saying a word had in fact accepted, in July 2014, that there was no longer the arrest for the crime of stalking and he also kept quiet when the reform Orlando predicted that the crime of stalking could be extinguished paying 1,500 euros. Fortunately, then, after the insistence of the Commission and all the responsible people, this abomination was removed: it was really madness. I also find it insane that undersecretary Spadafora, which I believe would have been right if he had been present in the Chamber today, as he had delegated to equal opportunities, only issued a statement in July against the Minister of the Family; he made a presence at the gay pride and gave an interview today on the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), in which he says that his ideas about rights are very different from those of the League. But since June, since the new government took office, it hasn't said a single word to date. Yet, more than thirty women and children have been killed. 20 percent of the feminicides were preceded by a precautionary measure that had the prohibition of approach, but unfortunately many women, despite this ban, accepted the last appointment for them fatal. I confess to you that I was very perplexed when the amendment was adopted in the Commission to ensure that the Commission lasts only one year, but then I remembered the great commitment and the work that the previous Commission has done in just six months. We met three times a week, finished the work of the Chamber, before the other Commissions, without pauses: 67 hearings, by Lucia Annibali, and at this point I would like the bill on identity theft to be resumed, i.e. when a woman is disfigured with acid. We have heard the ANCI, the State-Regions Conference, voluntary associations, doctors, the Child Care Authority, the Chief of Police, the Commander of the Carabinieri, Minister Orlando - he knew little - the Union of Criminal Chambers, the MIUR and channels of information to give an ethical code against spectacularization, which is always a stimulus to emulation. We also presented a questionnaire to all prosecutors on criminal proceedings for gender violence, but only one third of the prosecutors responded to it. The thing that emerges and that must be addressed is that the prosecutors do not speak: for example, the civil court and the court of minors do not speak and it happens that, in cases of separation with denunciation of violence and ill-treatment by the woman, the court of minors provides for the shared custody. This means that the right hand does not know what the left hand does. I hope that these issues will be addressed by the next Commission. We certainly have a moral duty to continue the path that began in the last parliamentary term and to expose the critical issues that have emerged. Of course, most of the time such murders may be stopped, but there are many cases in which prosecutors or law enforcement agencies do not have the appropriate tools to stop the one who will then be the killer. At this point, I want to make a great appreciation for the work of the Forces of Order: I met sensitive and trained operators to collect and support women who had the courage to denounce. I hope that in the next budget law, rather than giving money, the government decides to secure the right funds for the law enforcement. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The legislation in Italy against violence against women, through the many interventions, is nevertheless adequate, and this was also said in New York, during the World Week of Women's Parliaments. Speaking with colleagues from other parliaments, such as - for example - Spanish colleagues, I have heard that Spain has launched a plan against feminicide and the five-year gender violence to which it has allocated EUR 1 billion: no money is cheap. It is clear that it is not enough on its own, since cases do not, however, diminish. There has been talk of training. I remember that when I was a little girl and played in the gardens, if a boy gave me a push, the mother would run and tell him that nothing is done against the girls and that you don't hit women even with a flower. Maybe some mother could start saying that. There was talk of the school, Senator Faedeli. It would be good, without inventing new things, to strengthen the pink week against the violence that, for a protocol of understanding, ministers Carfagna and Gelmini did, predicting that one week a year, in all schools from primary to high school, we would talk about this topic. Well, it's been almost ten years. Of course, cultural formation in our country is very young from this point of view: the family law of 1975 was remembered, the crime of honour of 1985. Until thirty-seven years ago the feminicide in our country was protected by the State, and it was remembered that sexual violence was recognized since 1996 as a crime against the person. The same is true of family abuse, of which one must speak. But let's talk about the anti-violence centers. It is true that they are underfunded, but there must be a transparent formula to know how the money is being paid. We do not know how the regions have spent the ten million of the anti-violence fund and we do not know how much money is available. Above all, I hope that there will be a unique protocol for the accreditation of anti-violence centres throughout Italy. Forza Italia will certainly vote in favour of this document and we hope that we can work well. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u145	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u147	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, I have to make a necessary premise. I have been in Parliament since 2013 and I can assure you that the slowness of the legislative process is an excuse: either to block some measures or to dilute them. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So when you point out that you need five years, it means that you have no intention of trying to solve, stem or at least try to stem the phenomenon. It means that perhaps you are not aware that extending time is detrimental to potential victims. It means that there is no sense of responsibility or that, however, it is equal to the size of a coriander or even less. It means you don't want to deal with the issue, but you just want to dilute it over time. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That's not what it's worth to us. And this is so true that in the past we used to start again every time the Commission of Inquiry was set up. Do you want some examples? To approve the Fornero law you took nineteen days; for the legitimate impediment (the Alfano praise) you took thirty days; for the Boccadutri law, approved to cover the bottom of the back to the highest offices of the State, you took twenty days. FARAONE (PD). That's enough! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pharaoh, let my colleague Donno speak. FARAONE (PD). Mr President, you said bum! WOMAN (M5S). And now you're still asking for time? Time for what? We're running out of time! We want to start with what was concluded in the last parliamentary term, because we do not want to lose that wealth of useful information collected. We want to give continuity; we want to strengthen and define the path to be taken today by following precise traits. First of all, we believe that the size of the phenomenon of feminicide and gender violence in Italy must be effectively addressed. The existing regulatory framework and the impact assessment of certain profiles of the standards should be examined and improved. The case law on the subject must be clearer, unambiguous and non-interpretative in order to allow for effective application. Monitoring of network interventions to protect victims and family members should be encouraged; actions to protect victims and to prevent the phenomenon should be supported; further critical issues should be highlighted, turning them into decisive perspectives with appropriate legislative acts. These are some of the actions we intend to take. There's so much to do, so much to put into practice, so much more to do. The chronicles almost daily report stories of murders, violence, abuse and coercion, which often appear as the tragic epilogue of stories of subculture, lives lived under the banner of brutality, toxic violence or, worse, dependence, overwhelming, prevarication of one another. Unfortunately, violence against women and women is not always beyond the concept of social class and economic well-being. Gentlemen, from the North to the South, from the illiterate to the graduate, from the young to the elderly, regardless of the sexual habit that nature gives us, when it comes to violence we are talking about a terrible act, which can sometimes result in real tragedy. Feminicide, homophobia and bullying are acts and abuses that affect everyone and for which we must all feel responsible. Of feminicide and gender violence one person dies every three days. Statistics speak for themselves. The percentages are too high for a country that is said to be civil: in the first six months of 2018 44 women were killed, 30 percent more than in the same period of 2017. On the contrary, the reporter's figures are very low, only 12% of those who have suffered violence and among the most denounced offenses are stalking and domestic violence. There is also a response to the non-report: a lot of fear and, above all, a lot of shame when it comes to denouncing or simply revealing the violence suffered. In fact, given by hand, 90% of women who suffer violence do not report and the remaining 10% in almost half of the cases the complaint is filed. A system of this kind certainly does not allow protection and therefore makes it possible to remain silent in the face of violence, both in the family and in the workplace. The balance varies from Region to Region and the deaths confirm the sad primacy of Lombardy, with the highest number of women murdered (11), followed by Campania (6), Piedmont (5), Lazio (4) and Tuscany (3). Two cases of feminicide registered in Liguria, Veneto, Abruzzo and Calabria, while the remaining Puglia, Basilicata, Marche, Emilia-Romagna, Trentino-Alto Adige, Friuli-Venezia Giulia and Sicily remain attested on one case per Region. It is the case of Rossana, the young woman killed in Milan by her husband, the one who after the crime went to play slot machines; it is the case of Sara, the 22-year-old Roman, burned alive in a street on the outskirts of Rome by the former boyfriend who did not accept the end of their history; it is the case of Federica, killed by her husband just the day on which she was supposed to formalize the act of separation; it is the case of Elisabeth, strangled in front of her children by the cohabitant, confessed deed; it is the case of Noemi, the sixteen-year-old of the province of Lecce buried still alive, despite the stabbed inflicted by her aguzzino, whose young boyfriend was sentenced (with future prizes and discounts attached) to him at only eighteen years and eight months of detention just a few days ago; it is the case of Vincenzo, Gay activist, killed in Aversa by a friend of his trans for jealousy; it is the case of Fernanda, seventy with a consecuren, seventy-year-old wife who had found in a house in a house with a house with a house with a house in which he was found in a warm, seventy. We could continue for a long time in a dramatic list of stories that, although numerous and often overlapping, would become sadly aseptic numbers and cold statistics, making us move away from the main focus: stop this horrible massacre that seems endless, so we have an obligation to say enough. In the previous legislature, the Government approved Law No 119 of 15 October 2013, for the conversion, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 93 of 14 August 2013 to combat gender violence, with the aim of preventing feminicide and protecting victims. As expected, that law did not give the desired results. The data of the Ministry of the Interior, which are impressive, are authentic. In the last five years there is an average of 160 murders per year: this means that every two days, in Italy, a person is killed by his partner. Why? Because unfortunately, in fact, the legislative intervention provides only a form of ex post protection, to murder already committed. In our opinion, the legislator should intervene in advance, with greater effectiveness, encouraging the culture of education, aimed at curbing such phenomena and protecting more all those people who in vain denounce episodes of domestic violence, put in place by the same people at the hands of whom they will then be killed. Let us not forget that gender-based violence also causes victims among those who remain, a drama in the drama. About 70 percent of the children of violent couples would have witnessed the act and it has been estimated that from 2000 to the present day there are a high number of orphans of feminicide, about 500 in the last three years. Therefore, starting today, we must share the conviction that violence against women and gender violence is not a phenomenon, but a fact, a fact which unfortunately happens too often and which pollutes civil society, coexistence, the culture of global living, human rights: it is a fact that must be eradicated, hungry. Colleagues, we have a duty to comply with the obligation to ensure the protection of fundamental rights both in law and in law. [[De facto. (Call for the President.]] I would like to conclude, Mr President, but I would like to have the same extended time that has been given to others. How many women, overwhelmed and by the weight of life and the drama of violence, the Lord wants them free and in full dignity, Pope Francis said. The State also wants them free and in full dignity. I am forced to make time, but I reserve the right to deliver the written text of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u148	Colleagues, ten minutes is ten minutes. You organize to talk for ten minutes, for a quarter of an hour you can't. However, your request is authorized.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u149	WOMAN (M5S). I'll see to it that we're done in time, Mr. President. On October 12, the important news appeared on ANSA, which I read: "An alleged stalker can be treated as an alleged mobster and the special surveillance measure for social danger can be applied to him even by the accused and in the absence of conviction even at first instance." This is the principle established for the first time in Italy. At this point, I would like to recall what has been said as a vehement solicitation to the legislative power by a Rome gip: Femicide has the same social and cultural value as the Mafia. One must demand from the State the same effort that will be used to fight the Mafia phenomenon, because the feminicide intended in the broad sense gets to kill in absolute disinterest more than the Mafia, kills the life and dignity of entire families and generations, making them succubs and unable to act. I therefore declare the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Stars, in the conviction that everything that has been done up to now is a conquest, but that many more must be done together, because attention needs to be changed, the context needs to be rethought, the elaboration of one's emotions can be a long, unprecedented journey, in a path of assumption of responsibility on the part of all, that sees commitment, awareness and will with citizens and institutions, but always in the front row. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u150	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of document XXII, No 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. Consequently, documents XXII, Nos. 1 and 8.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u151	Colleagues, on the basis of the agreements between the Groups and having regard to the timetable, the discussion of the draft law on the smaller islands is postponed to another session, so as to give continuity to the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u152	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u154	STEFANO (PD). Mr President, I would ask you to take the request to the Government to report back to this House on the TAP in Puglia and therefore on the planned reopening of the yards in the municipality of Melendugno. We know in fact of a meeting held yesterday at Palazzo Chigi, convened by President Conte, in which the ministers Costa and Lezzi participated and in which it was allowed to participate - something singular and irrational - only to the Apulian regional MPs and advisors of the MoVimento 5 Stars, as well as the mayor of Melendugno. At the end of this meeting, Minister Lezzi, who until a few months ago shot the Salento far and wide making incetta of votes, saying that it would revoke the project in fifteen days, said that the project unfortunately continues, because it cannot download to the Italian community very high costs. There is, however, something more serious. They are the statements of the mayor of Melendugno, reported by the press agencies, but also in a public post on the profile of the same, according to which the mayor would have said that he seemed that the premier Conte would seek help from the prosecutor, in order to remove him from the corner in which he is located. I believe that these are very serious statements and that they need urgent clarification from Prime Minister Conte in this House and that is why I ask you to support my request. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u155	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u157	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to express my solidarity and closeness to the companion and family of the journalist of the "Washington Post" Jamal Khashoggi, murdered within the Saudi consulate of Ankara, in which the man had gone to carry out practices for his imminent marriage. As has already been done on 11 October by the Senators of the 5 Star Foreign Commission, I would like to remind you, if anything, that torture and dismemberment of the body violate all diplomatic rules, but even more so than the moral and civil rules of the international community. The journalist's fault was that he criticized the work of the royal family and, in particular, the Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman Al Sa'ud. Think, the latter, according to Saudi propaganda, would be an innovator and a moderate who, however, apparently does not tolerate journalists. This horror could have space in an episode of the "Soprano", instead the senders belong to an even more brutal family, the Saudi one, with which however most of the countries of the world have economic relations, in particular the United States, where the last order of weapons of the Saudis piles to 110 billion dollars, of which 15 already paid. Yet, even in the US this time there is much embarrassment in defending the ally. We must demand clarity on this monstrous act and condemn those who have done so with the same firmness with which this Parliament has condemned similar incidents in the past. In conclusion, to this dictatorship the previous governments have allowed the sale of weapons produced in Sardinia, violating the law n. 185 of 1990 that, at this point, it is necessary to reformulate in a restrictive form. I'm going to dedicate myself to this, because the Saudis are using those bombs to exterminate Yemeni civilians, including children. We must put an end to these and future deaths. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u158	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u160	TRENTACOSTE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for too many years a category of civil servants has been the victim of such long-awaited and desired reforms, but never implemented. I'm referring to the National Firefighters Corps. The lack of staff of fire department is now chronic and, together with their advanced average age, causes a problem of safety at work that could affect the efficiency of the rescue. Colleagues, it is necessary to treasure the emergencies experienced in our country, such as earthquakes, floods and collapses. These experiences confirm the need to adapt the Firefighters' Corps to the needs of the country, also through the recruitment of those precarious who have been working for years waiting to be stabilized, like all those who, for age not suitable to assume an operational role, could be employed to fill the deficiencies of organizational logistic personnel. One of the lacked reforms on the part of previous governments, which I consider immoral to those who risk their lives daily in order to save that of others, is the lack of equalization of roles, qualifications and salaries to those of the police forces. It is not conceivable in fact that belonging to the same Ministry of the interior, the fire department perceives pay treatments considerably inferior to the other Forces of the order. Given that the Government with the Security Decree has allocated considerable resources, I ask the same that members of the National Firefighters' Corps see recognized their rights and merits and can finally efficiently carry out their priceless work, proud to be employees of the State. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u161	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u163	RAMPI (PD). Mr President, I would like to point out to you, to the House and, through you, also to the President, who I know is sensitive to the subject, who, like other colleagues this week, took part in the Council of Europe delegation. Our delegation was elected late. For the first time since 1949 the previous delegation has fallen, that is for the first time Italy had no representative and this had never happened. Since the joint delegation of the House and Senate has not yet been convened and since we have not yet elected a President, we have not been able to participate, not us but the whole of Italy, the country, in any of the Commissions that are part of the Council of Europe. I believe that this is a serious problem, therefore, since it is the Presidents of the House and the Senate who have to convene the delegation, I officially ask that it be done as soon as possible and I really do so without any controversial spirit. I understand that there has been a great debate to agree and to occupy all the possible seats, but I believe that we should leave such a serious institution out of such matters and we should close as soon as possible to have a President and two Vice Presidents in order to be able to attend at least the November session of the Commissions, because this concerns everyone, concerning Italy, does not concern any political party. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u164	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u166	Toffanin (FI-BP). Mr President, I only speak to urge the Government to answer my question on 24 July 2018, to be precise at the time of inspection union 4-00397.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u167	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-47.ana.u168	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 17 October, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.52.
