ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u3	I inform you that the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity has communicated that, pursuant to Article 19, fourth paragraph, of the Rules of the Senate, has verified, in the session of September 25, 2018, the existence of the titles indicated in the presidential decree, dated January 19, 2018, appointing Senator for life, pursuant to article 59, second paragraph, of the Constitution, of Dr. Liliana Segre, for having illustrated the homeland with very high merits in the social field. I acknowledge the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities of this communication and declare the appointment as a life-senator of Dr. Segre validated.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u4	At the beginning of the sitting, the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, a request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u5	The Conference of Leaders approved by a majority changes to the current timetable and the new timetable until 18 October. The examination of the bill of account and settlement - which will be discussed this afternoon - and the inspection union remain confirmed for this week's sessions. For needs related to RAI live TV, tomorrow's start time of the question time is postponed to 15.15. On Tuesday, 2 October, at 5 p.m., the Minister for Foreign Affairs will inform on developments in Libya. Next week's timetable also provides for Italy-Abu Dhabi ratification of extradition and judicial assistance, as well as, where concluded by the Commission, the draft law on the development of the smaller islands. In the week from 9 to 11 October will be discussed the Update Note to the 2018 Economy and Finance Document as well as, where concluded by the Commissions, the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry on Femicide, the draft laws on the national network of cancer registers and the vote of political-mafia exchange. On Tuesday 16 October, at 9.30 a.m., the President of the Council of Ministers will make communications with a view to the European Council on 18 October. The schedule of the week also provides for discussion, where concluded by the Commissions, of the draft law on civic education in schools, on the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry into the banking system and self-defence. All draft laws of parliamentary initiative provided for in the calendar come from the writing office. Moreover - after the conclusion of the work of the Conference of the Leaders - the draft law on self-defence has been returned to the head office on the initiative of one fifth of the Senators of the Commission Justice. The Conference of the Leaders, pursuant to Article 36, paragraph 3, in conjunction with Rule 74 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, will be convened on this issue, taking into account the fact that one of the measures is of popular initiative. The schedule of work includes, for each week, inspection union sessions and every Thursday, at 3 p.m., the question time. Finally, the timetable can be supplemented by the vote of nine actual members and nine alternates of the Italian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. In order to facilitate the planning of the work of the Commissions, the Conference of Leaders decided that the meetings would in principle be suspended between 1.30 p.m. and 4.30 p.m., without prejudice to Question Time.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u6	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following programme of the Senate's work for the months of September and October 2018: - Drawing of Law n. 149 and related - Provisions to promote the exploitation and sustainable development of the smaller islands (where concluded by the Commission) - Documents XXII, nos. 1, 8 and 9 - Establishment of a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, as well as on all forms of gender violence (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of Law No 535 and related - Establishment and discipline of the National Network of Tumour Registers and Surveillance Systems and Epidemiological Report for Public Health Control (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of Law No 510 - Amendment of Article 416-b of the Criminal Code on Political-Mafia Exchange Voting (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of Law No 233 and related - Amendments to Decree-Law No 137 of 1 September 2008, converted, with amendments, by Law No 169 of 30 October 2008, laying down provisions on the teaching of constitutional culture, civic education and European citizenship (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of Law No 494 and related - Establishment of a Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Italian Credit and Financial System, on the management of banking crises and guarantees for the protection of savers (where concluded by the Commission) Documents of the drafts of Law No 5 and relating to the Constitutional Decrees - Establishment of a Parliamentary Measures for the Italian Credit and Financial System, on the Management of the Management of Banking Crisis (where concluded by the Chambers)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u7	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted amendments to the current timetable and the new timetable until 18 October 2018 pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure: [[Wednesday, September 26 h. 16,30-20 - Legal drawings no. 803 and 804 - 2017 account and 2018 settlement (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (final votes with the presence of the quorum) - Questions and questions - Immediate questions, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 27, 15.15) Thursday 27 " h. 9.30-20]] [[Tuesday 2 October h. 17-20 - Statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on developments in Libya (Tuesday 2, 5 p.m.) - Drawing of Law No. 771 - Ratifica Italia-Abu Dhabi on extradition and mutual legal assistance (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of Law No. 149 and related - Development of smaller islands (from the drawing up office) (where concluded by the Commission) - Questions and questions - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 4, 15) Wednesday 3rd h. 9.30-20 Thursday 4th h. 9.30-20th]] [[Tuesday 9 October h. 16.30-20 - Follow-up to unfinished topics - Doc. LVII, n. 1-a - Update note for the 2018 Economy and Finance Document - Doc. No XXII, nos. 1, 8 and 9 - Institution Commission of inquiry into feminicide (from the drawing-up office) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 535 and related - National network of cancer registers (from the drawing-up office) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 510 - Vote for political-mafia exchange (from the drawing-up office) (where concluded by the Commission) - Interrogations and questions - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 11, 15) Wednesday 10 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 11 " h. 9,30-20]] [[Tuesday 16 October h. 9.30-20 - Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 18 October 2018 (Tuesday 16, 9.30 a.m.) - Following unfinished topics - Drawing of law n. 233 and related - Teaching of civic education in schools (from the drawing up office) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 494 and related - Institution Commission of inquiry banking and financial system (from the drawing up office) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 5 and related - Legitimate defence (*) - Questions and questions - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151 bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 18, 15 a.m.) Wednesday 17 " h. 9.30-20 Thursday 18 " h. 9.30-20]] (*) Following the conclusion of the work of the Conference of Leaders, the draft law on self-defense was returned to the contact office on the initiative of one fifth of the Senators of the Justice Commission. The Conference of the Leaders, pursuant to Article 36, paragraph 3, in conjunction with Rule 74 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, will be convened on this issue, taking into account the fact that one of the measures is of popular initiative. The calendar can be supplemented by the vote of 9 actual members and 9 alternates of the Italian Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The scheduled sessions will be suspended in principle between 13.30 and 16.30, without prejudice to the timing of the question time. Breakdown of time limits for the discussion of draft law Nos. 803 and 804 (2017 Report and 2018 Settlement) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 44' FI-BP 30' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' PD 28' FdI 18' Mixed 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 15' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the Doc. LVII, No 1-a (Note to update the 2018 Economy and Finance Document) (7 hours, including explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1h 13' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion on the Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 18 October 2018 (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 44' FI-BP 30' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' PD 28' FdI 18' Mixed 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 15' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u10	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, you have correctly reported that the timetable has been adopted by a majority, so I have a proposal to make to the House to amend the timetable that you have reminded us all. In accordance with Article 55, paragraph 3, I would ask you to bring forward the measure establishing the Commission of Inquiry into feminicide to the next week, it could be the same 2 October immediately after the information on Libya or, alternatively, the next day. I have taken up the willingness of my fellow Group leaders, in good faith, to follow up this institution positively. There is an agreement that concerns, I think, all the political groups, so I believe that, by pushing towards the Commission, by creating the necessary attention and by calendarizing the measure in the Commission on Tuesday, we can conclude the work positively and arrive at the adoption of the measure on the same day or, at the latest, the following day. Among other things, it is clear to everyone that the calendars of this House are quite empty, if I may, so there is our general fear that this is a latent attempt to empty parliamentary activity, but we are not talking about this today, we will talk about it on another occasion. Today I just want to ask the House for this amendment on such an important subject as, alas, the news reminds us sadly every day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marcucci, I'm sorry: would you like to point out the amendment proposal? The proposal must be put to the vote. Mr Marcucci (PD). I would ask you to include, on Tuesday 2 October, in the afternoon, immediately after the information on Libya, the measure on the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u11	Before we proceed to the vote on Senator Marcucci's proposal, it is up to those who wish to speak one per Group. Not necessarily, but if there are groups that wish to speak, they can do so with a speaker.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u14	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, I believe that I interpret the spirit of President Marcucci's proposal by saying that, as we have also had occasion to observe at the Conference of the Leaders, there is no wish of the majority to slow down the Commission' s approval process on feminicide and there has also been informal intercourse between the Leaders on this issue. Today, however, we are on Wednesday and we think it is technically almost impossible to think of a timetable for next Tuesday. Among other things, the opposition has called for a longer time for discussion within the Commission, and today we are asked instead to bring forward to Tuesday, 2 October the vote in Parliament on the Commission's measure on feminicide, an important Commission of which we, as a majority, have made some proposals to make its work even more stringent and operational. We therefore do not agree with the change in the proposed timetable and we are prepared to bring this important measure to the House in the following week.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u17	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, we are asking for the measure to be scheduled for Tuesday simply because it is a question of starting the Commission. I cannot understand, with all due respect, the position of the President of the Movimento 5 Stars. We know very well that the other Commissions have been set up, we have seen it, and there has also been a very quiet debate; we cannot understand the reason for the debate on this Commission, whose work would also be in continuity with the work carried out by the Senate during the last parliamentary term, which has seen all political forces involved in a cross-cutting way, a Commission which, once again, is born with transversality and with objectives shared by all. I would like to understand the reason for this debate, because these are objectives that are understood, shared by all and already addressed by those who have proposed the establishment of the Commission. I repeat: it is a proposal that is born cross-cuttingly and therefore all the groups are in favour, but we know that the founding measure is still in the 5th Commission and we cannot understand why. I say this without wishing to put a known controversy, because I would like to be understood correctly: since we do not think that the work has been so intense in these days, we believe that there are spaces and that Tuesday afternoon is therefore a useful time for the Commission to finally start.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u20	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to remind you that at the Conference of the Leaders the measure was scheduled for the following week and we made an effort, speaking directly to the President of the Commission, to arrive at 9 October. What changes to examine it a week later? It is only for a technical reason, to give the possibility that there will be a debate, as requested. It seems to me to be a rather presumptuous request: between 2 and 9 October what changes? If we have a little more time, let us not hang the 1st Commission and force it to do everything in a hurry. It is true that the debate has already begun and that there is a desire to come to a conclusion, but a minimum of discussion is needed in the Commission, bearing in mind that the debate might also be aimed at not throwing away what has been done in the previous parliamentary term and therefore at discussing in order to include in the Commission's mandate the fact of taking into account at all costs what has been done in the past. We therefore need a minimum debate in the Commission to arrive at this House on 9 October. I do not see what the problem is in this respect. We will therefore maintain the timetable for the measure to 9 October, because it is only the following week.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u21	I put to the vote the proposal made by Senator Marcucci to bring forward from 9 to 2 October the discussion of the document on the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry into Femicide. It's not approved. Mr Ferrari (PD). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u22	The next item is the joint debate on draft law Nos. 803 and 804, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The rapporteurs, Senators Presutto and Solinas, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur on draft law No 803, Senator Presutto.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u23	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to report to you on the general account of the State Administration for the 2017 financial year. As you know, the general state statement is the instrument through which the Government is accountable to Parliament for the results of budgetary management. According to Article 36 of the Law of Accounting and Public Finance, the general statement of the State is divided into missions and programmes. It consists of two parts: the balance sheet account, which sets out the results of the management, i.e. the actual amount of the revenue and expenditure of the State budget in relation to the forecasts approved by Parliament, and the balance sheet account, which shows the changes in the size of the assets and liabilities constituting the assets of the State. In implementation of Article 35, paragraph 2, of the Law of Accounting and Public Finance, to the General Report of the Administration of the State is attached, for each Administration, a supplementary note. For revenue, the supplementary note sets out the results of the management; for expenditure, the note sets out the results of the management for each expenditure programme, in a way comparable to the corresponding note to the forecast budget. More specifically, the additional note, with reference to the actions underlying each programme, illustrates the financial results by economic categories of expenditure, justifying any deviations from the initial forecasts. It also contains an analysis and evaluation of the extent to which the objectives of expenditure have been achieved, measured through appropriate indicators which could form the basis for a thorough analysis of the implementation of public policies by the relevant administrations. The general statement of the State is also accompanied by the economic statement in order to integrate the reading of the financial data with the economic information provided by the referents of the cost centres of the central government of the State and an illustrative report of the resources used for the purposes of environmental protection and the use and management of natural resources by the central government of the State (the so-called eco-recount of the State). Coming to the content of the bill of statement for the financial year 2017, it is noted that, as a whole, the management of competence has achieved in 2017 an improvement of the balances compared to the final forecasts contained in the 2017 adjustment. Compared with the previous year, however, the final figures show a worsening of both the net balance to be financed and the use of the market. In particular, the net balance to be financed (given the difference between final revenue and final expenditure) shows in 2017 a negative value of €29.1 billion (1.7% of GDP), with a deterioration of around 18 billion compared to the balance recorded in 2016 (-11.1 billion), due to the significant increase in final expenditure and, in particular, capital expenditure (over 20 billion), significantly higher than the increase in final revenue. However, this balance was better than the final forecasts for more than EUR 24.6 billion. On the other hand, there is an improvement in public savings (balance of current transactions), which goes from EUR 27.8 billion recorded in 2016 to a value of 31.6 billion (1.8% of GDP), with an improvement of about 3.8 billion compared to 2016. This situation was determined by a decrease in current expenditure (-0.7 billion) compared to the total tax and extra-tributary revenue (+3 billion). The improvement is also marked with reference to the final forecasts (about 6.9 billion). Finally, the figure of the use of the financial market (difference between the final revenues and the total expenditure, including those related to the repayment of loans) was 271.2 billion euros in 2017 (with an impact on GDP of 15.8 percent), showing an increase compared to 2016 (+207.1 billion euros), after a trend of the decrease recorded in recent years (it was 260.4 billion in 2014 and 257.1 billion in 2015). The value of the net balance to be financed and of the recourse to the market recorded in 2017 is still below the maximum limit set by the fiscal law for 2017 (roof initially established in -38,601 million and 293,097 million, and then increased to -56,186 million for the net balance to be financed and to -310,682 million for the recourse to the market by Decree-Law 24 April 2017, n. 50, following the worsening effects due to the interventions of support of the banking system). On the final revenue side, the increase in investigations (EUR 1.7 billion) is largely attributable to tax revenue and to a lesser extent to extra-tributary revenue. Looking at the total revenues, the size of the investigations (including the revenue for the ignition of loans) was 864.6 billion euros in 2017, with a strong increase compared to 2016 (+2.2 percent, equal to +18.6 billion), which derives mainly from the dynamics of the investigations of the revenues of Title IV (Language of loans). Indeed, as highlighted in the explanatory report, the increase of EUR 20 billion resulting from the implementation of Decree-Law No 237 of 23 December 2016 concerning urgent provisions for the protection of savings in the credit sector is recorded on this item. The impact on GDP is 50.4% for overall surveys, in line with what was recorded last year (50.6 percent of GDP in 2016). On the expenditure side, there is an increase in final spending commitments in 2017 (EUR 612,1 billion) for an amount of 19,6 billion: this result is the result of a slight contraction in current expenditure (-0.7 billion) and a significant increase in capital expenditure (+20,4 billion) compared to 2016, to be attributed mainly to the category "Acquisition of financial assets", due to the implementation of the aforementioned Decree-Law No 237 of 2016, which consolidates the positive trend started last year after the strong decrease recorded between 2014 and 2015. Coming to the management of the residues, it is recalled in advance that the trend of the passive residues recorded for 2017 is affected by the new accounting regime for the liabilities introduced by Legislative Decree No 93 of 2016, which has resulted in an increase in the period of conservation in the balance sheet of own residues, bringing it from two to three years for current transfers to the public administrations (category 4 of Title I) and for capital expenditure (Title II). On the basis of the data provided in the report, the balance sheet from the 2016 and previous financial years indicated as of 1 January 2017 estimated assets of 212,238 million euros and liabilities of total expenditure of 134,423 million euros, before the residuals related to the repayment of loans, with an active surplus of 77,815 million euros; in 2016 the surplus assets were higher, amounting to 95,229 million euros. During the financial year 2017, the amount of the residues was changed as a result of the activity of re-assessment and management in residual accounts, which showed decreasing changes both on the revenue side, for 62,209 million euros, and on the exit side, with a decrease of 17,590 million euros. Therefore, compared to the initial stock of active residues from previous years (212,238 million), 150,029 million were established at 31 December 2017, of which 34,216 million were collected and 115,813 million still to be paid or collected. As a result of the management of responsibility for the 2017 financial year, some 88,263 million newly formed residues were added to these residues for a total of EUR 204,076 million of active residues at 31 December 2017. Similarly, with regard to the residual liabilities of total expenditure, out of 234,423 million residuals assumed as at 1 January 2017 from previous years, 116,833 million were established, of which 49,089 million were paid and 67,744 million still to be paid. These past residues, together with the newly formed residues resulting from the management of responsibility for the 2017 financial year, amounted to €70,161 million, resulting in a total amount of residual liabilities at 31 December 2017 of € 137,905 million. By breaking down the share of liabilities relating to Title III, relating to the repayment of financial liabilities of 475 million, the residual liabilities of final expenditure amounted to 137,430 million. In summary, the residue account as at 31 December 2017 exhibits assets of EUR 204,076 million and liabilities of EUR 137,905 million, of which EUR 475 million in Title III concerning the reimbursement of financial liabilities. As regards the general account of the assets, the accounting document that annually provides the balance sheet of the State as it appears at the end of the financial year, from the results 2017 emerges a passive surplus of approximately 1,875 billion, with a deterioration of more than 77,4 billion euros regarding the balance sheet at the end of 2016. This is a result that continues the trend of the last three years, considering that in 2016, 2015 the worsening was little less than 40 billion and in 2015, 2014 was less 66.8 billion euros. The total assets amounted to around 947,8 billion, of which 736,5 billion financial assets, in net decrease compared to 2016, and 307 billion non-financial assets. The total liability amounts to 2,823 billion and refers entirely to liabilities of a financial nature. Compared to the closing of the financial year 2016, the amount of financial liabilities increased by €38.2 billion. I conclude, taking into account the negative problems highlighted above all under the heading "General account of assets", calling for greater attention to be paid to the choice of objectives adopted by the administrations, linking them more closely to the achievement of positive results in a short time, measurable through a rapid sustainable economic recovery for the nation, guaranteeing the consolidation of our public accounts.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u24	I call the rapporteur on draft law No 804, Senator Solinas.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u25	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the 5th Commission has examined in the referee the draft law laying down the provisions for the adjustment of the budget, approved at first reading by the House of Deputies. The bill of settlement reflects the structure of the state budget, organized for missions and programmes, constituting the voting units, and is prepared within the framework of the regulatory framework defined by the accounting law, as amended and supplemented by Law No 163 of 2016 and Legislative Decree no. 90 and 93 of 2016. However, these changes did not affect the nature of the measure under consideration, which remains a formal law, constituted by Section II of the Budget Act. Pre-determined expenditure appropriations by law (the so-called budgetary flexibility) may be amended during the settlement, subject to the prohibition of using capital account appropriations to finance current expenditure. The margins of flexibility in the settlement have been recently widened following the changes, introduced first by Legislative Decree No. 90 of 2016 and then by Article 5 of Law No. 163, again in 2016, of reform of the Law of Accounting and Public Finance. These changes make it possible to propose compensatory changes between the financial allocations provided for in existing legislation, which is limited to the current year, including between different voting units, where flexibility was originally limited only within the framework of the programmes of the same mission. The above-mentioned law, No 163 of 2016, also provided, from 2017, that the bill of settlement also be accompanied by a technical report, in analogy with what was established for the draft budget law, in which it takes into account the consistency of the value of the net balance to be financed with the programmatic objectives indicated in the document of economy and finance. On the point, it should be noted that the technical report relating to today's draft law does not need to be updated according to paragraph 4-f of Article 33 of Law No 196 of 2009, as the amendments approved do not change the accounting framework already represented at the time of the presentation of the draft law under consideration. As regards the content of the draft law, Article 1 provides for the approval of changes to the estimates of the State budget for 2018, as set out in the annexed tables, referring to the estimates of revenue, estimates of expenditure by the Ministries and budgets by the autonomous administrations. In the annex to the draft law is highlighted, for cognitive purposes, the evolution in terms of competence and cash of the individual balance sheet items, as a result of both the changes made under administrative acts until 31 May, and of the variations proposed with the bill of settlement and for each voting unit are indicated also the variations that are recorded in the consistency of the residues, in line with the definitive results set out in the statement. The article 2, paragraph 1, raises of 2 billion euros for 2018, bringing it from 18 billion euros to 20 billion euros, the limit of the commitments for the guarantees of duration beyond twenty-four months assumed from the SACE SpA (Assurance Services of the foreign trade). To this end, Article 3 (3) of the Budget Act is notified. The Government, specifically questioned, has clarified that the increase in the limit of SACE's commitments of more than twenty-four months, which can be assisted by the State guarantee, has no effect on net borrowing and borrowing, since, since such guarantees are so-called non-standardized, the accounting of the worsening transactions of these balances is only possible, in the event that the guarantees are actually excused: therefore, no effect on the aforementioned balances is incurred. Paragraph 2, on the other hand, paragraphs 5 of Article 3 of the budget law, which quantify the amounts of the Funds included in the reserve and special funds programme, as part of the Funds mission to be allocated of the estimates of the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF). In particular, it is proposed to reduce the provision of the Reserve Fund by EUR 300 million for the integration of cash permits. Article 3 announces article 9, paragraph 3, of the budget law, in order to introduce the exact name of the program, attributable to the Public Order and Security mission, within which are allocated the sums allocated to the fund dedicated to redoing resources for possible deficiencies in the chapters relating to the administration of public security, in particular Chapter 2676. The name proposed here is "Contrast to crime, protection of public order and security" instead of the name "Planning and coordination of police forces" currently reported in the text of the budget law. Article 4 instead contains two novelties in Article 18 of the Budget Act, containing different provisions, mostly of a management nature. With regard to the financial results determined by the draft adjustment law for 2018, it should be noted that the report shows, in terms of competence, an improvement in the net balance to be financed compared to the initial budgetary forecasts, which is at a value of less than 43.8 billion, compared to an initial forecast of less than 45 billion. The improvement of approximately €1.2 billion of the net balance to be financed compared to the initial forecasts is mainly due to the positive effect, for €2.45 billion, resulting from the proposed changes with the draft settlement law under consideration, compensated for less than 1.2 billion from changes by administrative act. The improvement in the net balance to be financed, which is determined in the forecast adjusted in terms of competence over the initial forecasts, is due to a decrease in final expenditure of €2.2 billion. In fact, they go from €624.554 to €622.332 million, partially offset by a reduction in final revenue of almost €1 billion. As regards changes by administrative act, they lead to a worsening of the net balance to be financed by 1.2 billion in terms of competence, resulting from an increase in final expenditure (plus 1.3 billion). With regard to the other balances, public savings improved compared to the initial forecast at 3.7 billion. With regard to proposals for changes made by the draft settlement law, the same must be distinguished from those relating to revenue and expenditure. As far as final revenue is concerned, the settlement bill contains a proposal for a reduction of €1,120 million. As regards final expenditure, which, as mentioned above, fell by a total of 2.2 billion, the changes proposed by the measure resulted in a reduction of 3.570 million euros. This reduction concerns only current expenditure, which is down by 4,210 million euros, where there is a significant proposal to reduce interest rates (less 3,171 million), linked by 2,271 million to lower interest payments requirements on public bonds, and 900 million to lower interest requirements on current cash accounts. Capital expenditure increased by 640 million. In the course of the examination in the Chamber were approved only three amendments to the bill of settlement 2018. This is an amendment that has allocated 500,000 euros to the 12.2 programme of the MEF of support for sustainable development, another amendment of the Government aimed to refinance for 10 million euros the live entertainment sector and the replacement of the name of Table 12 with the words "Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and Tourism Policy" instead of "Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities." In the light of the above considerations, the 5th Commission has successfully dismissed the draft law at issue. The House is therefore invited to proceed with its approval.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u26	I declare the joint general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u27	Mr President, the state's statement and profit and loss account enable us to verify the commitments made, the results of the initial forecasts and the compliance with European constraints on net debt and public debt. From the data that the rapporteurs also pointed out earlier, there are clear numbers and some precise and incontrovertible data. GDP, i.e. the country's overall income and wealth, grew by 2.1% compared to 2016 and real GDP by 1.5. Since 2014 our country is no longer in recession, and growth has recorded points of progress in each of these years, reaching its peak in 2017 after the crisis. This sustained growth also last year resulted in a sharp increase in current revenues compared to 2016. If we look at the public finance balances, the net debt, the deficit reached 39.691 billion; net of the resources that were destined to cover the problems of the banking system, the net debt in 2017 amounted to 33.184 billion, i.e. 1.9 percent of GDP, so net debt improves both in absolute terms - in 2016 the value was 41.638 billion - both in relative terms, from 2.5 percent of GDP to 1.9 percent. This important result has been achieved with an improvement of 1.1 billion of the primary balance and a reduction of 0.87 billion of interest expenditure, obviously obtained thanks to the international credibility of our country that has allowed on the financial markets to obtain lower rates and a contained spread. The improvement in the balance is mainly determined by an increase in revenues of 12.1 billion, equal to 1.5%; more than compensatory increase in expenditure growth, which was 10 billion, which corresponded to an increase of 1.2% in 2016. An expenditure that, however, has grown mainly in its component of investments for 7 billion and about 3 billion for the part of current expenditure, thus bringing further benefit to the economic cycle of the Country. In view of the increase in revenue, as we have said, however, the tax burden has been reduced by 0.2 percentage points, as, moreover, is highlighted in the report itself and in the dossier on page 13: it has risen from 42.7% of GDP in 2016 to 42.5 percent in 2017. If we had to nectar these amounts from what is the so-called 80 euro bonus, the tax burden in 2017 would have been 41.9%, therefore with a further reduction. Public debt in 2017 grew to 2,263,056 million euros, an increase of 43,150 million euros compared to the previous year, but the fact that it shows for the purpose of respecting European constraints is its impact on GDP, which has decreased by 0.2 percentage points, from 132 percent in 2016 to 131.8% in 2017. This is the second consecutive year of the reduction in the debt-to-GDP ratio compared to the rapid growth resulting from the economic crisis and the drastic decrease in GDP that occurred in the years 2008 to 2013. As regards the management of competence, in 2017 it showed an improvement in the balances compared to the final forecasts. On the whole, therefore, tax revenues have increased, with both tax and extra tax increases; however, the tax pressure has not decreased, since there has been an increase in GDP; the increased revenue expected - and verified - has also allowed to increase expenditure, especially investment expenditure, but remaining within the European parameters that Italy has undertaken to respect. Apart from these figures, some political considerations must, of course, be made. In these days the Vice Premier has declared that the PD has destroyed the country: the positive data that also the speakers have highlighted make us say that perhaps the reality is rather different from that that is represented with resounding statements. The PD collected a condition of great difficulty in the country in the worst economic crisis that Italy has experienced since the post-war period: it was able to accompany it by taking it out of the crisis and bringing home the results that today, in the 2017 report, are well photographed. I have been a local administrator for ten years, and I myself have been struggling every year, in drawing up the budget, with the constraints of public finance, which Parliament has decided on; constraints which require every year to make choices, with a general accountant or with a municipal accountant who always say that everything cannot be done. A politician, by definition, would like to increase current expenditure, in order to be able to give all the necessary answers, for which he has engaged in the electoral campaign. But this is not possible, precisely because of these spending constraints. A budget is made up of programmes, missions, chapters and a politician is called to carry out his function to the full, which is to choose what to do with the limited resources that are available. When I hear that we want to increase the deficit this year in order to respond to the many electoral promises, and then come back from the deficit and debt in the next two years, I wonder if we have a full awareness of the difference between current expenditure and investment expenditure. To make deficits in order to finance a measure of current expenditure means to have to guarantee it even in the years to follow. It is different to make deficits to invest, which also produces additional wealth in the country. Perhaps it would have been useful for the government contract, which the parliamentary majority signed, to have been done after the approval of the summary, which photographs the precise condition of the expenditure and the public accounts of our country; a condition that the speakers also photographed to be positive. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, Senator. COMINANCES (PD). I shall end, Mr President, by calling on the majority to demonstrate with their own abilities, their own competences and their own political choices what they will be able to do, while respecting the limits that public finance and European parameters impose on us. We will certainly see him in the years to come and he will be photographed in the accounts of the next years. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u28	I beg you to keep to the time, since they are quotad.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u29	I take advantage of a few seconds to greet with pleasure, on behalf of the entire Assembly, the scientific high school "Leonardo da Vinci" in Jesi, in the province of Ancona, which is visiting, very welcome, the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ferro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to make this general debate less arid by giving you some summary data on our 2017 and 2018 accounts. A premise to my previous colleague: something must not have worked, in the sense that if, as he says, all the figures we represent here today are "gold," we do not understand why the Italian citizens, during the last parliamentary elections, have chosen a completely different majority. COMINANCES (PD). Perception is something else. IRON (FI-BP). Coming to the summary numbers, revenues amount to almost 800 billion euros, while the outputs reach 839, of which 774 of current expenses: a 45 percent of the GDP of our country. These two figures already give rise to some general considerations. True, our country's indebit net declines in the four years 2014-2017, from 3% to 2.3 percent of GDP. The last important fact is the drastic reduction in debt charges, which fell to 65 and a half billion (there were 74 in 2014): these are the lower interest payments that we pay because of the monetary policy of the European Central Bank. These are the summary data. As Gruppo Forza Italia we note, however, some critical issues, both in relation to the statement, and in relation to the settlement. This Government, which has been called a change, has not, to date, adopted any measure that really helps the Italian economy to rise again. The macroeconomic scenarios are rapidly deteriorating: those who are ill, are getting worse and those who are well are getting better and better. We therefore need urgent, precise economic planning measures, with a clear and clear reversal of the trend that we do not notice to date. The government needs to announce a credible strategy to restore confidence to investors, mostly foreigners, and hope to the Italians. To date only roboating ads, more for newspaper titles and social networks, with ever worse results: this is testified by the spread data. Some small positive signal is, moreover, in these two documents that we are called to analyze and approve today: there is an improvement compared to the initial forecasts and to the level of debt that characterizes the economic situation of our country. However, we have a fundamental need to bring debt back on a safe and secure path to sustainability and recover growth in terms of GDP. Something did not work: public investment did not work as expected and their impact is not significant at all. The cuts in public spending must pay attention to us, because the risk is that we will lose more and more of our services. I am referring to services that are in the most direct contact of citizens, those that citizens live on their own: health, schools, public transport, culture and research. We need, in short, an efficient management of resources, made even more urgent and necessary by the dreaded compression of expenditure. It is a compression that involves an ever greater breakdown in the policy of services, especially in municipalities and small municipalities, which nowadays represent the backbone of our State. You too (here it is not a question of right, left, white, red or green) talk about the difficulties that local administrators have to go on, the more than 8,000 mayors present on the territory. We need a clear and clear reversal of trend. One fact that none of my previous colleagues mentioned is that the Court of Auditors, which represents for the state budget what a auditing company or the board of trade represent in public limited companies. The Court of Auditors points out that there is an ageing public administration which is not in line with the need for innovation and change that public administration as such must have. We note this especially in the world of school, where there is disaffection. You will also hear those civil servants who among them do not talk about problems related to their work, but repeat: They provided yes, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There is no attachment, but a very dangerous disaffection (especially in school), so quality in reducing spending is required. This phase of voting on the budget and the adjustment opens the important phase of the actual budgetary session. We are waiting tomorrow for the indications of Minister Tria, who represents for us a lifeline, a balanced and wise person that allows us to speak on an equal footing at European level. I hope that we will always send him around Europe and not someone else, otherwise we risk creating very dangerous situations. This fact about the statement is not a purely formal aspect - as the rapporteur said - of the budget; it is an act which also has political significance, because from here the considerations to be adopted in the context of the budgetary policy that we must approve. The Court of Auditors' report to the 2017 accounts shows that there is a need to make very cautious choices and selective economic policy interventions. I shall end, Mr President, by asking the Government for an effort: to move from proclamations to objective economic data, which will enable our companies and our industrial sectors to compete at a very delicate time. The country asks us, public opinion asks us and our citizens ask us to do so. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u32	He's enlisted to speak Senator Missa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, as the rapporteur has indicated, the 2017 statement and the 2018 settlement approved at first reading by the House of Deputies, represent the instruments through which the Government reports to Parliament on the results of the financial management at 31 December 2017 of the 2018 budget. The connection of the two measures clearly shows that with the reform of the state budget, which the Democratic Party has accompanied in the previous legislature and, more generally, of the public accounts that began in 2009 have produced important progress. Today we have more flexibility in the allocation of public resources and we have greater transparency in the reporting of public resources. Increasing the flexibility to relocate resources, to choose between resources and programmes, to place resources between different actions, between current expenditure and capital account has put us in a position, in the past legislature, to safeguard an initiative useful for growth and, at the same time, to strengthen the credibility and solidity of public finance. Greater transparency, which is necessary in order to respond to the rules, strengthens democracy. More generally, when we eliminate shadowy areas in the management of public resources, strengthening democracy can also help us in a further relationship with citizens. In short, on the reform of the state budget, which we are waiting for the last measure, I think we can say that we can work towards a constant strengthening of the elements of flexibility and transparency necessary to strengthen the credibility of the institutions. (Applause from the centre and the right) The 2017 statement certifies the solidity of the results achieved; it makes evident and credible the importance of the reforms carried out by PD-led governments to support growth. The numbers certify the important trend reversal between 2008 and 2013, 2013 and 2017. This is confirmed by GDP, as mentioned by the previous speaker; this is confirmed by the reduction in the deficit-GDP ratio; this is confirmed by the reduction in the tax burden; this is confirmed equally clearly by the increase in the net balance and, at the same time, by the inescapable and evident reduction in the weight of the cost of debt on GDP. I will be an incurable optimist, but I hope with all my heart that the majority of the League and Movimento 5 Stars and the Government of the so-called change will change narratives and come out of the rhetoric of the useless and unsustainable accusation to the past. End the election campaign and work on consolidating these results. It is clear immediately that it is not with the decrease - which, in my opinion, is always unhappy - and with a welfare of announcements that generate wealth, future, opportunities and rights for our children. The second hope is at the limit of the sustainability of my optimism. The characteristics of our budget cannot bear under any circumstances a weakening of our credibility, of our relationship between the European dimension and the international dimension. It is necessary to restore credibility to the institutions and - I say this with all my heart - with the wrong announcements I forgive you. The weight of the debt in the GDP ratio, the cost of the money to pay our debt, is compromised. Both are also affected by the relationship between income and household debt and the investment needed to promote employment, employment and growth. Announcement every day with a different minister a different increase in the deficit / GDP ratio does not help the credibility of our country. There is growing mistrust in families and businesses. The propensity for consumption and investment is reduced. To send back emergency measures, as is happening in Genoa, because they lack the necessary cover, does not regenerate trust and does not support investments; they leave people alone and lose credibility in the relationship with the country. Using your mud machine, as you have done to attack and frighten leaders of the public administration, to whom goes our thanks for the competence and seriousness of their work, which have highlighted also in this account and in this settlement, does not increase the credibility of the institutions, but produces chaos. And, again, to isolate Italy in the European dimension with abnormal and sovereign alliances, which have nothing to do with the identity of Europe, to isolate us not only from Europe, but also from the international dimension, and thus to attract new investments to generate jobs and growth, opportunities or the future; it is like rejecting the possibility of believing in a better future. As well as using fear for elections, without taking into account concrete actions to turn fear into hope, to transform and pass from resentment and anger within the community dimension, it does not help young people to identify a better future; you can win the elections, but you do no useful action for the generations and for the future of our children. To affirm, as Minister Di Maio did, that the budget law abolishes poverty does not make people smile, because they are offended and humiliated first of all the fragility of the weakest people. In this context, I believe that it is important to deal with the solidity of our accounts with great determination. We have had a reversal of trend, we have not solved the problems of the country in its entirety. We have reversed a negative trend that has led us to consume 9.5% of GDP and we have produced an increase of 3.5% of GDP. We know that the road is still long, but we must start from this consolidation, the reduction of the tax burden and the need to put investment back at the centre of the country. We will wait for better tables and balances and we will clearly judge the wrong actions of this Government, precisely because we are convinced that we owe it to the future and the love we have towards the country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after four months of government of change, we do not see a great change in the adjustment of the accounts, but very small movements and above all not promoters of particular renewal in the country. However, we are waiting for the real changes, precisely from the point of view of the budget law, which has already begun its process, in the sense that the endless discussions within the Government and its representatives already occupy the pages of the newspapers and the conjectures on what could be done and what could not be done are spreading, as it is logical that it is because this law is always an important moment. Today we have the adjustment and we have to think about what to do for the future. Here truly comes the change: how to find the resources to keep the immense promises made during the election campaign, especially by the Movimento 5 Stars, who promised everything and increases of resources everywhere. These promises, which one could say in the enthusiasm of the electoral campaign - although in my opinion promising things that cannot be maintained and not maintained is something different from enthusiasm, because this is closer to deception and fraud - have then been confirmed in the Government contract, signed precisely at the time of the formation of the current Government, where the estimates of expenditure are discordant, but certainly more than 100 billion on an annual basis of greater expenditure. It is not easy to find these 100 billions, which are actually even 130 billions, but not even much smaller figures and, therefore, change comes here. Ordinarily, when governments have to find money, unfortunately, they have to increase taxes or reduce expenses, always with a view to making the economy grow; because, of course, if the economy grows it increases the revenues of the state and you can do so many interventions. For now, in terms of growth, we have seen only a reduction in the growth forecast. We still cannot evaluate what has happened in these four months even if, with the so-called Dignity Decree (the Di Maio decree), we know, from the same report presented by the Government, that tens of thousands of jobs will be cancelled. And if the assessments made by those who wrote the report for the Government, talking with entrepreneurs, with workers, with all those who work in the real world, what they produce and thanks to which everything that is possible in this country can be done, we learn the same story: people who had to have the renewed contract were instead fired for the many problems raised by that decree-law. But innovation comes in the way of finding this money. As I said, ordinary taxes are either increased or expenses are reduced. This time there is a new way: to threaten the officials of the Ministry of Economy! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] A truly innovative way, which works in some cases, as in robberies and, unfortunately, not always. When, in fact, the money isn't there, you have a big threat, but the money doesn't come up with threats. And these threats have been authoritatively uttered by the powerful spokesman of the President of the Council, Mr Rocco Casalino, and we have been able to listen to them in the recordings. This has a reflection on some aspects of the Constitution, because Article 97 of the Constitution says that the public administration must ensure the impartiality of its conduct, so or there is a partiality (so disciplinary action is taken against that manager) or one cannot force an executive, who, being a technician, has his opinion, to express a different opinion. Also because, always that annoying article of the Constitution, it says that public administration is responsible for ensuring the sustainability of public debt. So, if someone in the Ministry of Economy remembers that there is this need he is simply doing his duty. If it does so, however, in an unfaithful and partial way, then it deserves disciplinary action, but not threats through the press, even if it is with the politeness to say: no, we did not tell the government, some of the MPs of the Movimento 5 Stars said. What is not true and, therefore, would also be a lie. I must also say that there is real concern that the President-in-Office of the Council has endorsed this position and other institutional figures have even blamed journalists, who should have reported things in a disciplined manner to what the spokesman for the Council Presidency has said. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] But the biggest concern is from the economic point of view. If that is, compared to the promises made in the election campaign (it was said: we know where to take the money. We have studied, we have great scientists, economists and professors who have studied everything. We know where to take the money), then the way to find the money is that of cross-border threats, trying to hide the source, against the officials of the Ministry, I would say that we really are not doing well. In the meantime, however, the announcements, the quarrels within the government, and even outside, have meant that up to now there has already been greater interest expenditure (consolidated on the basis of the figures of the auctions of the Bank of Italy) equal to 2.6 billion euros of greater interest that will have to be paid on the securities already issued, which have their maturity, so already there has been a difference of 2.6 billion, to count in the most prudential way. So, not only the ads don't produce anything, but they can do a lot of damage. For now the change has been this: to seek the resources through the threats and to spend 2.6 billion more to the Italian taxpayers, not doing things but simply Announce them. Congratulations! And we hope that soon changes the course of our economy and our country! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u36	She's enlisted to speak Senator Leo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u37	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is with honour and emotion that I make my first speech in this House today. Intervention that falls within a financial framework, a very delicate and at the same time cumbersome issue. Well, it is a fact that we have inherited a fragile Italy. Emblematic is the case in which the road system, including that of our islands - how not to think about my Sicily - as revealed in the case of the Morandi bridge. This imposes financial priorities on this new government, because in some way we will have to deal with these emergencies for the security and protection of our citizens. Therefore, we are faced with a complicated Italy, in which - in my opinion - the numerical data is of considerable importance. It is enough to reflect on the increase in the figures inherent in the level of unemployment and on the percentage almost to 70 of the fiscal pressure, not to mention the dizzying increase of the many young people who leave our Italy. These are the resources that we lose and the human capital that goes away. This is what we have inherited, the result to which so far have brought all the financial maximanovre that should have revived Italy. So the time has ended for us to play with numbers, those numbers that have messed up reality, mostly by tricking taxpayers, who have, however, been subject to a considerable tax burden. I am thinking of those austerity policies that have affected the middle class, which are also imposed by the European Union. In addition, previous governments have not been able to adequately represent national interests at Community level. In-depth reflection is needed on the way in which the next elected members of the European elections are to be held. The political action of our Government finally wants to give face to the numerical data and recover the dignity of the citizens, but first of all it wants to know the numbers in an analytical way. Of course, the noble idea of the European Union has been partly betrayed and this has created disaffection for citizens not only in Italy, but also in many other European states. However, it would be unfair to say that the European Union has not also brought cultural benefits and citizens' mobility within the Schengen area. This certainly deserved the sacrifices we have made. But now it is enough, it is time to take note of the situation and embark on a virtuous circuit of the actual resources we have for the welfare of the community, our only and healthy ambition. At the same time, it is time to relaunch a new idea of Europe, based on the principles of solidarity and sharing its original constituent principles. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u39	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to try to articulate a reasoning on the account and on the adjustment in the face of the extension of a long message of electoral propaganda involving, still in the last hours, the representatives of our Government. These are announcements that, very often, mark the lack of knowledge of the numbers and situations we face and that put us a little 'of concern, like last night, for example, when the Vice Premier, in the par excellence living room of Bruno Vespa, said that the outgoing governments have left rubble in the country. In making this statement, Di Maio and his staff (who in fact have done much more in recent days) have pointed out that there was not even the patience to browse through the documents that we are called to examine in this House today. In fact, if this had been done, they would have had to admit that the document that they will approve today tells of a work done in recent years and gives to those who today are called to the government of the country fundamental conditions of departure far different and more favorable than those of 2013. Precisely in order to overcome the logic of propaganda, wanting to remain on the merit, I want to immediately clarify that the 2017 statement draws the line on what has been the last three years from 2014 to 2017 and provides in a plastic way the trend of the three previous years of public finance, expressing all the effects of the interventions put in place, including the reform of the state budget; a reform that has worked and that today gives us more functional flexibility, but also much more transparency in the exposition of the public finance documents, therefore in fact puts in crisis that propaganda continues to the work of the new majority because it lies point by point a whole series of fake news that continue sneakyly to distract attention from the inconclusions of the Government. I'll start with the first figure: the tax burden. It is not necessary to get out of this Chamber if the objective is to incite the first angry and provocative citizen to ask him whether he perceives that the tax burden of recent years has increased or not: the "belly" response is also heard here, in this House, from the benches of the majority. Someone, in fact, even in here, often without even having read, continues to scream that the tax pressure has increased, that it has exploded; screams it with the aim of giving the anti-politics an instrumentally gluttony bite. Well, you often say that the tax burden has exploded, but then in the document you are most correctly writing the opposite (yes, you write it). The tax burden, in fact, from 2014 to 2017 has decreased by 1%, despite the redistributive measures implemented (see 80 euros) and that many of you have not shared, much less exempted in this start of the new legislature. You will say that it is little, that more needs to be done; I agree with you, but it is quite another thing to say that the tax burden has increased. All the more reason it is not honest to say that in Italy, because of the outgoing governments, you pay much more taxes than before. Perhaps it would be more honest to say otherwise, but I understand that it is too much to ask. One fact is certain, however: soon you will be called to account for a difficult exercise, that of the Government, which will not give you discounts. Another hoax that the majority have ridden without intellectual honesty, and that also in this palace often echoes, is the one for which in Italy with the PD-led governments has increased waste. Well, given the impossibility of finding a generic item in the budget (and I add that in these days you can see well the difficulty, especially of a few grills, to find them also in the rooms of Via XX Settembre) it is well to know that the primary current expenditure, where general are nested the possible waste, objectively is going from 42.6 percent of the GDP in 2014 to 41.3 of 2017 and it is the first time that the reversal of the trend of the expenditure trend is recorded. It is good to say it and I repeat it: this is the first time. Here, too, it could be said that more had to be done. I agree, but it is clearly false to say otherwise. Perhaps it would be more useful to commit to trying to do more, to prove oneself capable of doing more. I could continue this way until I get to the real totem of the yellow-green propaganda: the deer of the public debt. Even in this case, however, the real numbers, despite the cries, speak clearly: the refrain according to which with the central-left governments the public debt (just that what today would be willing to manage without brakes) exploded is a lie. At the beginning of 2014, the debt-to-GDP ratio was 131.8%; today the document we are discussing shows the same percentage: it has not decreased, but it has not even increased, despite important redistributive measures. Without any doubt we are talking about a monster figure in absolute terms, which however has much older origins than the three-year period 2014-2017, which do not allow it to bend to permanent electoral propaganda, saying that the public debt has gone out of control. On the contrary, I say more: perhaps we should all know that absolute-value debt cannot be reduced until there is even one euro of deficit and we have a deficit of 2.3%. As long as there is a deficit, the fact that debt increases or tends to increase is a mathematical factor. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Stephen. STEFANO (PD). Finally, Mr President, a few words on the deficit. In 2014 it was 3% of GDP; in 2017 it fell to 2.3%. Again, he's down. If we wanted to be less picky than Eurostat, as I think we should, i.e. we did not count the effects of intervention on the banking sector, we could say that the deficit has reached 1.9%. Again, I repeat: these are numbers, they are given certain and as such they must be considered, if only you have the patience to read them. Starting to conclude, I would like to make just one comment on the adjustment for 2018. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Stefano. STEFANO (PD). I would like to refer to the obvious anomaly regarding the forecast of a sharp fall in indirect tax revenue: we are talking about about EUR 6.3 billion less. This is a further decrease with the asymmetry that is seen instead in the increase of direct taxes, which marks an increase of 2.6 billion euros. This change - and I will conclude really - takes on an even more worrying outline in the light of the data published a few days ago by the European Commission, which reports of a VAT evasion in Italy, in 2016, for a total of 36 billion euros, to which it goes without saying the intention, several times communicated, to cancel the split payment. In this sense I leave here, here, a disturbing alarm bell, on which to focus attention and competence, because in any case our hope, for the good of the country, is that it can soon be contradicted by the current majority. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Casini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u40	Senator Pichetto Fratin is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, the bill approving the 2017 report and the 2018 settlement give the Assembly an opportunity to examine the main numbers of public finance, to understand where we come from and where we can go. It is obvious that it will be the current Government that will tell us what path it intends to take, first with the upcoming Update Note - to hours, as it is said - and then, in a few weeks, with the draft budget law for 2019. The numbers that will be written will have to be based on the existing budget, which can be changed, but which cannot be altered because it is very cast, at least not with a single budgetary maneuver. In the meantime, we can see from the general government's income statement the evolution of public finance indicators over the last four years - I have heard them mentioned in part in the intervention of my previous colleague - which have characterized the economic policy of the Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri governments. The main indicators are those relating to net debt, which although decreasing from 3% to 2.3% of gross domestic product and also falling in real terms photographs four maneuvers in deficit, for a total figure of 172 billion euros. At the same time, GDP growth was €108 billion. Another factor to consider is the drastic reduction in the debt burden, already mentioned by my colleague, Mr Ferro, which saw interest payments falling from EUR 74 billion to EUR 65 billion. The cumulative effect is EUR 38 billion lower than our public debt. If we want to be generous, we can therefore say that the bonus of 80 euros, which cost 6.5 billion euros in 2014 and 10 billion euros in the following years, to the little more than 10 million Italians who benefit from it paid Mario Draghi. Despite the availability of these large resources, resulting precisely from the use of debt and the lower interest charges, Italy has seen limited growth over the last four years, below the European average. Our nominal gross domestic product has reached 1,717 billion euros, one of the highest in Europe and the world; but, despite this, the growth of gross domestic product, driven by a favourable international cycle and by different and convergent exogenous variables, has been ballast by the problems we have been carrying for many years. It is clear that economic growth is a direct consequence of the confidence of the companies that invest and the citizens that increase their purchases. Trust has been lacking, because those reforms that have been called for for for years have been lacking and because an unproductive political confrontation has been sought in place of dialogue. In short, if that money borrowed from foreign and Italian investors had been well spent, we would have had at least the growth numbers equal to those of the resources committed using the deficit. This has not been the case; it has not been the case in the last year, but not even in the previous years. So it was not, even being able to disavow the so-called Keynesian multiplier. John Maynard Keynes made a multiplier over spending, didn't he, Mr Bonfrisco? BONFRISCO (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'm listening. PICHETTO FRATIN (FI-BP). A further confirmation comes from an empirical study, which we have also read on the press, about the 10 million Italians who have received the 80 euros, which unfortunately have not all returned to the consumer market. It was also an unfair measure, because it gave something to those who already had an income, while it did not give anything to the lower incomes or even to those who did not have an income. That measure shows a principle of iniquity to those who think of putting on the plate of social equity the income of citizenship, which would likewise be an arbitrary measure. First of all they would be taken away from the development of the country, that is to say the creation of new jobs, therefore to real incomes and not of presumed citizenship. (I would like to remind you that we are not opposed to assisting those in need.) If these sums were realised in deficit, they would then be burdened by the additional burden on the sums resulting from the use of the market. Speaking of public expenditure, it should also be said that intermediate consumption also grows in real terms and as a percentage of inflation, accounting for 13.3% of current expenditure net of interest. This is an important and still very grey item in the public budget, because it groups everything within itself. It should be pointed out that unfortunately the centralization of purchases did not start in this country; we continue to announce it and hope to see it. The revision of expenditure must then be carried out once and for all and we hope that the Government, even though we are opposed, will succeed in achieving it. All the bureaucratic constraints that prevent spending must be removed. For example, for the areas that can access cohesion funds, there seems to be to date - I remind the members of the government - 54 billion not spent, which we risk losing: it is 54 billion that, lords of the government, with an evaluation regarding the National Operational Programme (PON), which is also all under the competence of Vice President Di Maio, can be of help to the evaluations of the Government. And, in recovering resources that are often already in the budget, courageous choices must be made, which direct expenditure not to an immediate consensus, but to a long-term vision. In this we would like to see what we have not seen in recent years and which do not record the documents at our examination. We would like to be involved in an increase in public spending on innovation and research; we would like to see expenditure moving from current expenditure to investment. At this point, a 0.2 in more deficit-GDP ratio can also become very useful and not irrelevant, in a circuit where the state, in agreement with companies, is promoting innovative processes. Knowing that in the next five years there will be almost 300,000 specialized professional figures in Italy should induce a Government that looks to the future to invest in their formation. We cannot allow Italian companies to be deprived of the resources they need most, human capital; we cannot deprive Italians of all this. It is precisely the numbers of the state budget of these years that should lead us to a reversal of the trend that is actually thinking about the good of the citizens. So, as the report's rapporteur says, it is not just a numerical figure: it is the basis for analysis for the implementation of public policies. We need a reflection; we have a country cast by the norms of the State, by the system of the State. We need flexibility in reallocating resources. The state budget is the instrument of public finance that must serve the governments - and of course this Parliament - as an integration and surrogacy of what the system does not achieve. It is a question first of all of the credibility of the country, and to have credibility as a country you have to have the credibility of the institutions, and this is given by the numbers. I have spoken a lot about the accounts and general policy. I conclude with a simple consideration: it was the opportunity to put hand, on the part of the new Government, to the budget of the Government Gentiloni Silveri. In fact, we didn't see anything. I would like to remind the new government that it is true that it came into operation in June, but from June to December there are six months and in this country in six months there have been 900 billion euros of gross domestic product, it has recreated public debt and, of course, many of the slogans, even of the election campaign, perhaps could have been tried. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u42	She is registered to speak Senator L'Abbate. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u43	Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, welcome guests (our Millennials generation), today we examine the general state statement for 2017 and the adjustment of the budget for 2018. The General Report of the Administration of the State is the mechanism through which the Executive, at the end of the cycle of public finance management, realizes the constitutional obligation to report to Parliament the results of financial management. The 2009 Accounting and Finance Reform Act No 196 provides that, annexed to the statement, the results of expenditure on programmes of environmental nature and content, defined as resources used for environmental protection purposes relating to the protection, conservation, restoration and sustainable use of resources and natural heritage, are to be presented. We're talking about the eco-account. The financial resources allocated by the State to primary expenditure on the protection of the environment and the use and management of natural resources amounted in 2017 to approximately €4.7 billion, i.e. 0.7% of the total primary expenditure of the State budget. But, be careful: payments actually made in the year amount to 0.5% of the total primary expenditure: only EUR 2.6 billion. In order to protect our ecosystem, to defend the air we breathe, our water, our land, our energy resources and our health, we are satisfied with a spending capacity of 55.4% of the total actually financed. Let us go in particular: payments of EUR 740 million have been made for the protection of soil and surface water and the subsoil: only 28% of the total expenditure made. For the protection of biodiversity and the landscape, we have stopped at EUR 411 million: only 19.9%. For waste management, a hot topic in the name of the circular economy that we often continue to bring out in this House, throughout the year only payments for 364 million euros: 14.1% of the total available. For expenditure chapters such as air and climate protection - very important - payments were made for just EUR 60 million: very little, although the budget was much larger and the expenditure could have exceeded EUR 240 million. Only EUR 740 million was spent in the chapter on soil, water and underground protection and could have been spent EUR 1.38 billion. Public contributions to enterprises could have reached EUR 700 million, between current transfers (EUR 21 million) and pro-environment investments (678 million); but in the end, they stopped below EUR 230 million. Allow me: this was an unsolicited austerity and I wonder why: incompetence? Or have you embraced this happy decrease, which I hear you talk about from time to time? You always say "happy decrescation" to me, but I don't even think you know what you're talking about. Happy decline is the title of a book, written by an Italian author, but degrowth is something that is studied internationally, in a whole series of great situations; also in America degrowth is studied. It is practically an alternative economic model, it is studied with a dynamic model; go and read all the scientific literature about it and, maybe, then we talk about it. In 2018, therefore, the Ministry of the Environment will find itself managing the profitable residues, the frozen sums in 2017, which preferred to set aside: in short, a real treasure of resources allocated, accounted for and never used, to improve the lives of citizens and the ecosystem. I conclude by stressing the seriousness of the dynamics of public investment. Between 2014 and 2017, general government gross fixed capital expenditure fell by an additional 0.3% of GDP, reaching a low 2 percent. Without public investment, we cannot restart the virtuous circuit that our economy urgently needs, which, in line with the rest of the world, with the best practices of the countries of the European Union, must turn towards a sustainable, green and circular economy. Public investment is a driving force, not only for demand in the short term, but also for the potential production capacity and competitiveness of our small and medium-sized enterprises in the international market. The Minister is right when he says that over EUR 100 billion of investments are already discounted in the trend deficit, but they have not been spent. The policy of change is human-faced politics, which will put an end to a policy of carelessness and austerity, which has not protected businesses, has paid little attention to the protection of the environment and has not been spent to improve the living conditions of citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u44	The joint general debate is closed. As the rapporteurs do not wish to speak in response, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u45	Mr President, I also give up my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u46	I inform you that, since the final vote on the two measures will take place by electronic ballot, pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, once the examination of the articles of the accounts has been completed, we will proceed directly to the discussion of the articles of the settlement. The joint explanations of vote will then be followed and the two votes will be taken using the electronic system.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u49	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say at once that the LEU Group will abstain on both the settlement and the reporting. Just a small notation: there are variations - as several colleagues have already pointed out - on the adjustment of the system. Let's just say you can't see the change. Having said that, as far as the statement is concerned, perhaps it deserves a different, less bureaucratic consideration, and probably should serve the majority and the government also in view of the next Update Note to the DEF. The picture that emerges, to the point of view, is more worrying than it has been told: there is an improvement in net debt, but that is basically the result of the decrease in interest expenditure. There is more transparency (this is a good thing), but there are still shadow areas. There is growth, but it is a growth that remains well below the European average, but that above all is unequal and increases evident inequalities in our country. There is a reduction in tax expenditure, but tax evasion remains impressive. It is a few days ago the figure of 36 billion VAT evasion, to which the Government of change responds with the evocation of a fiscal peace/condon and certainly goes in the opposite direction to the needs. There is another fact that I would look carefully: the collapse of primary current expenditure. Let's be clear: here we are now at a point of alarm: on fundamental services, health, school and transport, we are now facing, compared to a few years ago, a further gap compared to all other European countries. This is a very serious problem which should be considered and which should lead the majority - we shall see the Additional Note - to reflection and priority choices. When I hear government representatives say, with regard to spending in the budget law, that 50% goes to Movimento 5 Stars and 50% to the League, frankly I think it is a very wrong way of working. I think it's gonna do us some serious damage. Investment confirms a fall. Let's look at some data. As far as school is concerned, a study shows us a 16.3 percent reduction from 2009 to 2016 in current expenditure. The GIMBE, one of the most qualified health center studies, tells us that between 2015 and 2018 there is a fall of 12 billion euros between cuts and reductions. If these states are not enough, we can look at investment: in ten years there is a 27% reduction in investment. So I ask myself: what growth? With what quality? I am listening to the Ministers and I hear, for example, about the fight against waste. Fighting waste is absolutely right, but the question is: will the resources obtained from the right and motivated fight against waste in health care, which there are, be reinvested in this sector or earmarked for other investments? [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU Group and the Senators Ferrari and Rizzotti]] Look, the national health system is in crisis. I tell you that you have a contract in which you say you want to protect the National Health System and universalism. By continuing with this reasoning, with regard to education, for the generation of the new millennium what will be the investments? How are we going to tackle the problem of making a qualitative leap to give way to the challenge of research and innovation? As far as industry is concerned, I wonder what industrial policy you have in mind. I didn't get it. The rhetoric about small and medium-sized enterprises is okay, but we now have 40% of companies in manufacturing that are not in a position to be in the market. The internal market does not pull, it does not have the capacity to give space to these companies. What do we do? Today there is news about the work; the Constitutional Court has finally said one thing clear: on dismissals the position of the jobs act is illegitimate. What's the government gonna do? Will he intervene? I'm not talking about intervening at Porta a Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di That's the problem. We often do not listen and each one does his own campaign, but our discussion is on the skin of the country. We will see - and this is why we abstained as a basically technical fact - what the basic choices will be in the budget law: if they are not on the relaunch of investment and public spending, then there will be little to do. I must also say something about investment. There is no doubt that the resources put on investment are also not giving a positive result. We have to ask why. Don't just look at the cliché you're building in connection with the procurement law. There is a huge problem in the country represented by the public service, by the public administration: either you decide to invest in public administration and its qualification or we will face an even more serious crisis. Our vote, as already said, will abstain and, without any controversy but in the interest of the country, I would like to add that we would like to measure, concretely and in consistency with the contract, the responses that will come not from social media, but from the acts. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u52	Marsilio (FdI). Mr President, first of all, I think it is necessary to get out of the misunderstanding that approving a statement or a settlement is a technical matter. If it was only a technical matter, we could quickly decide that perhaps there is no need to vote on the report, just publish it and send it to Parliament as an act. In fact, those who approve a statement also assume responsibility for what the document reports and tells and for the economic and budgetary policies underlying it, leaving aside all the points. Anyone who wants can then read the Court of Auditors' report and see how numbers are not completely neutral and how those who manage often work also to give a paint of presentability to the numbers when they risk being merciless. All the more reason for this reasoning is for the adjustment. I mean, especially for the benefit of my colleagues in the majority, who will approve it, that an adjustment is not just an adjustment of current accounts that results from the fact that, since we have established that at 31 December the revenue and expenditure are those, there is perhaps a small difference of EUR 1 billion or half a billion compared to the total EUR 800 billion of the state budget, and it is simply a matter of reallocating the budget from what we have settled with the statement. The adjustment is a valuable opportunity for any administration. This applies, for example, to the municipalities, as many of us have had administrative experience within them, as well as to the regions and provinces. This also applies to Parliament. It is an occasion when the govern ments check the state of implementation of the programmes and expenditures, deciding whether there is a need to speed up the course of the year towards a director, correct some shortcomings or whether, in some way, the current path should be changed. The adjustment, for a government in office, which has continuity of mandate, translates into small adjustments because one tends in some way to confirm the political line and the commitments of expenditure, to believe in the objectives that were given the previous year in the budget. It is curious that, on the other hand, when a new government appears as a "government of change" (one of which is part of a party that announced that it wanted to open the box represented by Parliament with the open box), the arrangement passes with three amendments. One - heard, heard - of half a million euros; a figure referring to a greater allocation to the Sustainable Development Fund. Then there is another amendment of 10 million, with which funds move within the Ministry's budget for cultural assets and activities to move them from protecting the landscape to the FUS, on the chapter of live entertainment. The third amendment - think a little - is the change in the name of a table. If that is all the courage you have, today the Movimento 5 Stars and the League will approve the balance sheet of Gentiloni Silveri and Padoan, because the latter could not have brought a different settlement to the Chamber. We give the benefit of the few weeks, of the little time available for the new government. So no one expects miracles, except those who promise them. We who are more realistic, however, do not expect miracles and ask ourselves: was it not possible to move a billion perhaps from immigration policies to security policies, or to allocate some additional resources to solve some problems and definance expenses that we consider and considered not important also with some friends? We, in fact, shared with the League the election campaign and a government program to present to the country and, in our program, there were other priorities compared to those that were presented in the budgets and in the action of the Gentiloni Governments Silveri, Renzi and Letta. There is not a single change intervention. It is not shown in this budgetary arrangement that the slightest courage to say that at least on a matter, on which we have the clear ideas and on which in a few months we can change the economic and practical political direction of the country, we intervene. Nothing! You are presented here in the Chamber, reading the tasks prepared by the Study Service, saying that the budget has arranged more or less this and more or less that; the surpluses have increased and the deficits have decreased. I mean, that's what we read in the technical reports. Politically, however, we would like to understand from the majority whether the Government really intends to change step. And here I am telling you that you have wasted a tenth of a legislature, because an adjustment corresponds to six months of budget and a five-year legislature is made up of ten semesters. Well, that's how you burned the first semester. You will arrive at December 31 continuing to spend the money according to the priorities and stakeouts that the Gentiloni Government Silveri prepared last year and on which, in perfect continuity, you are going to rule the country, at least until 31 December! [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Ferro]] We will then wait for next week or when the new budget is ready, on which we will be confronted, and we will see what you will be able to present. We hope positively, because we are for the good of the nation and the Italian people. So, let's cheer for a government capable of responding to the needs of the nation and the people. And we hope to see something much better than the statements that have been presented to us and in respect of which the triumphalist interventions of the Democratic Party are to say the least surreal. But how can we boast of the decrease in the tax burden, when it is presented only in the last year, from 42.7 to 42.5 percent: even 0.2 less? [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] But we also count the 80 euro bonus as a fiscal policy. It goes down - hear, hear - to 41,9: therefore, as many as 0.8 points of reduction in the tax burden. At this rate it will take eighty-seven years to reach that pressure between 25% and 30% that a citizen and a normal enterprise perceive as appropriate, just, fair to pay and that, therefore, creates a more civilized and more balanced society. However, I say to the majority that I do not have the face to say, perhaps in a week or two, after presenting the revolution of flat tax and the new fiscal revolution - as some circles announce and I hope they are denied - that the first step will be the reduction of an IRPEF point, because this was also promised by Gentiloni Silveri and Padoan. There was no need to make the revolution to present us with a modest attempt to reduce an IRPEF point, perhaps on a single bracket! [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] We can use the same argument for public debt. Again, again, the figure is 0.2% less than debt-to-GDP ratio and you also want applause. Only last year data are read. But, if we read the whole account of the Democratic Party's entire government season, from 2014 to 2017 the debt-to-GDP ratio was 131.8 and 131.8 remained. We, that is, had four years of government passed unnecessarily, during which half of the Italian people starved, increasing poverty for groups who had never known the problem of arriving at the end of the month, maintaining the debt-to-GDP ratio, the country's indebtedness and its vulnerability compared to speculative attacks, which will come. In fact, now that the European Central Bank's quantitative easing and zero rates are over and the cost of money - and thus the cost of debt - is rising again, you will see what will happen with the spread. This happens because there are loads of debt that no one has ever wanted to face and that are the real priority of the country. In order to secure the country and protect it from speculative attacks, we must reduce the debt and not do it again. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] We must make policies that increase production and gross domestic product, so as to decrease the ratio, otherwise the attack of speculation will be there. We will always be ready to defend our country. We did that when, in the years 2009, 2010 and 2011, speculation threw down a legitimate government and someone grabbed their hands and went around Europe all pleased that this happened. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] For our part you will not find irresponsible attitudes, because the good of the nation always comes first. [[Call the president back.]] I shall conclude and add no more, because I welcome the President's call for a summary and try to help him maintain a disciplined debate. I therefore declare the vote against the Brothers of Italy Group both on the statement and on the settlement. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u55	Mr Misiani (PD). Mr President, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of the report and abstain on the settlement. Before, during and after the election campaign, so many exploitations were made on the state of our public accounts. The current vice-premier Di Maio has spoken several times of an Italy on the edge of the abyss, a destroyed economy and an unsustainable public debt. Even these days he has returned to office and accused us of being political assassins and of having brought the country to its knees. That Vice Prime Minister Di Maio tries to regain some visibility towards the real Prime Minister of this government, Matteo Salvini, is humanly understandable. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It's kind of pathetic, maybe. The problem is Di Maio's are hoaxes, fake news. Just read the ISTAT data published five days ago. These are data that remind us that in 2013, at the beginning of the last legislature, the Italian economy was in recession: the GDP decreased, consumption decreased, investment and employment collapsed and public finances were tense; the deficit was close to 3% and the debt was on the increase, despite a tax pressure at the highest historical level. Four years after the legacy of the crisis it undoubtedly continues to weigh - we do not want to underestimate the social issue and the condition of the country, the difficulties and suffering, which explain much of the electoral results of last March 4 - but the reversal of trend compared to 2013 data was and was clear. In fact, in 2017 the economy grew for the fourth year in a row and returned to growth not only GDP, but also consumption and - even more - investment and exports. Employment and hours worked have increased in recent years and unemployment has fallen. These figures - let us understand - are primarily the result of the work of the Italians (the workers and entrepreneurs of this country), the European Central Bank and the international economic situation, but also - let me say - of an economic policy that has held together the consolidation of public finances and support for economic recovery. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Not everything went the right way, because the investment expenditure figures are negative. This trend should be reversed by the decline in public investment. However, in the four years we have had the responsibility of government in this country, the tax burden has decreased by 1.4 percentage points of GDP, which become almost two points taking into account the 80 euro bonus. In money it means that, in 2017, we paid 25 billion less taxes than we would have paid with the 2013 level. [[Applause from the PD Group]] and become 34 billion less taxes, considering the bonus of 80 euros for what it is: a lower IRPEF income. Despite that tax cut, the deficit has been reduced in this country from 2.9 to 2.4 percent, which becomes 2 percent taking into account the extraordinary interventions for savings. Of course, there has been a fall in interest rates that has helped a lot, but the bulk of this result, the fact that the deficit has been reduced despite the cut in the tax burden, comes from the revision of public expenditure. I would stress that this is a revision of public expenditure (reduced by 1.5 points of GDP), which focused not on social benefits but on income from employees, intermediate consumption and other current expenditure items. Over the last few years, overall expenditure has fallen, but we have allocated more money to school, social policies, and we have been able to distinguish between the expenditure to be cut and the expenditure to be increased. It is this policy that has allowed us to reduce the spread, which was 270 points at the beginning of the last parliamentary term, and has fallen to 131 points the day before the elections, allowing us to negotiate areas of flexibility in Europe. Now it's your turn. You won the election, you're in the government. Finally, in the next few days you will have to find out the cards on the budget maneuver and we hope - let me tell you, Mr President - that we will not have to wait as we are waiting for the so-called Genoa Decree-Law and other measures that the Government has announced, but that they have not even arrived at the Quirinale. [[Applause from the PD Group]] From June to today, Mr President, we have seen a sequel of announcements, promises and words in freedom: first the 100 billion government contract, then the pull and the drop on the deficit (we will break 3%, indeed no; we will beat fists in Europe, but we will respect budgetary constraints and today the trench has been reduced to 2%). This chaos - because it is about this - has weakened the credibility of our country, not towards the evil financial markets, because 70% of the Italian debt is in the hands of Italian savers. It is the Italians who must convince you to subscribe to the public debt and you will convince them not with the announcements, but if you will make a credible maneuver to accelerate the growth of this country. For the moment you are not doing so and this chaos will cost us dearly in greater interests that we will pay next year. We are facing a crossroads, Mr President. The economy is slowing down, the sovereignism and protectionism you love are damaging this country, because Italy is an exporting country that has everything to lose from the protectionist wind. We need an effective economic policy: the deficit is not a fetish; Keynes has taught us that it is an instrument of economic policy. The point is how much deficit you do and how you use it. If the deficit is used intelligently, to make public investment, to finance research, education, to help those in real need, that deficit triggers a virtuous mechanism. Making deficits to reduce taxes on the rich, making deficits to assist those in need is a bad idea that will make Italy more indebted and more fragile [[Applause from the PD Group]] Doing tax forgiveness, cutting money at the outskirts, cutting deductions for mortgages and health expenses - as you want to do - is not a maneuver of the people: it is an unjust maneuver. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I will conclude by saying that we will come forward with alternative proposals on certain priorities: families, young people, the fight against poverty, the right to housing, investment. We will show you, numbers in the hand, that there is a much more effective way than yours to strengthen growth and social equity, making the best use of budget spaces. We shall be discussing this, Mr President, and that is why we shall be fighting in the debate on the budget law. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u58	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, first of all I would like to mention this year's anomaly. A few months ago we brought to the House a DEF prepared by the previous government, in the absence of a government voted, and this is the first time that this has happened in the history of our Parliament. [[Comments of Senator Bellanova]] Today we bring to the Shareholders' Meeting the 2017 statement and the 2018 settlement made still by the previous Government [[Applause from Senator Bottici]] Starting from the statement we can make some dissertations about the results of policies that may be born according to the best intentions, but that have not had the results hoped for. I have an obligation to remember that this has been decreed by all the people who have not had, in their lives, as families or as entrepreneurs, the results hoped for. In my opinion, voters are always right - and I always thought so, even when it was perhaps my movement to be penalized - and voters said that PD policies were wrong or did not give the desired results. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Evidently something went wrong. I will only focus on a few aspects, starting with public finance. On the statement it is stated that the data relating to the last financial year, and announced by ISTAT, attest to a net debt of general government for 2017 equal, in absolute value, to -39,691 billion euros, corresponding to 2.3 percent of GDP, net of interventions on the banking sector. Therefore, net of the disastrous measures saved banks, which had an impact of 0.4 per cent of GDP, according to the DEF data, the deficit for 2017 was -33,184 billion euros, which corresponds to 1.9 per cent of GDP. Therefore, they are data far from those provided by the DEF 2018, where a deficit reduction was expected to be 1.6% of GDP in 2018. These are data that represent the legacy of PD. The banking crisis and the disastrous rescue policies put in place, through reforms from our wrong point of view and certainly carried out in too much haste, certainly did not benefit the system, but perhaps they facilitated some. I think - for example - of the reform of cooperative credit, which has merged in a maxiholding a reality made up of small and medium-sized territorial credit banks, which have represented and represent the true backbone of the Italian productive sector and which alone, during the years of the crisis, have supported the entrepreneurial fabric of our country, composed - even if to someone it bothers - by small and medium-sized craftsmen and local producers [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Let's never forget it. It was a reform that devastated our local mutual network and certainly did not affect the system of loans to large SpAs or mega multinational holding companies. By the way, from the data that emerged, contrary to the initial forecasts, the transactions that involved the banks in difficulty have caused, in 2017, also effects on the net debt, for a total of approximately 6,3 billion euros (1.6 billion euros caused by the operations relative to the Mount of the Paschi of Siena and approximately 4,8 billion euros deriving from the transactions on the Venetian banks). But also the Court of Auditors - as some colleagues have mentioned before - in the report to the Parliament on the 2017 report, has evidenced some anomalies and inconsistencies in the accounting of the administrations. In fact, it has confirmed critical findings already emerged in recent years, due to several factors: first of all the existence of accounting inconsistencies within the same statement of revenue, having been reported, aggregated in order of amount for securities, by type and by chapters, the revaluations and non-compliances carried out; second, due to the failure to highlight the collections in residual accounts carried out in the reference year, which are instead combined with those operated in previous years and remained to be paid, adversely affecting the transparency of the budget. Finally, at the level of the elementary budget unit, a large number of chapters and articles for which the findings are lower than the forecasts, both initial and final, for both competence and cash. This is the legacy that the previous Government has left us, to which we have tried to give an initial but significant response within the much disputed thousand-pronges. First of all, we have enacted implementing rules on banks for the Financial Refreshment Fund, in order to make the rules put in place effective. To protect savers, we have accelerated on the issue of refunds, to ensure that savers can apply to CONSOB to obtain immediately the payment of the amount cleared, to the extent of 30% and with the maximum limit of 100,000 euros. A second intervention of a systemic nature concerns cooperative credit: we have tried to limit the previous reform, in order to ensure that the small local mutual societies do not end up phagocited by the parent company, to protect them from the risk of turning them into a mega SpA, exposed to the possibility of climbing, even foreign. But let us now turn to the issue of fiscal pressure. In the DEF it was reported that the tax burden, from 42.7 to 42.5, has decreased by 0.2 percentage points (many have said so). This is a decrease that reflects the trend of direct capital taxes, which have decreased in absolute value for the minor receipts of voluntary disclosure, after those already recorded in 2016. However, although my colleague Mr Misiani said that there was growth, Italy still remains last for growth among the founding countries of the European Union and in any case they are also taillighting in the blockade of the Eastern countries, because we remain in the presence of a tax pressure that is still too high, if we really want to relaunch the country. In any case, Italian companies are the ones that pay the most money in the coffers of the State, while families suffer an oppressive tax burden and cannot benefit from the same services as citizens of other countries of Northern Europe. There have been many illations about what will happen in the next few days, starting from the Update Note to the DEF and then from the maneuver. We have in mind another way to restart the country: certainly begin to insert and apply the flat tax. It is clear - and it has been said by many - that not everything that is written in the government contract can be in the next law of stability, because we are not at the school of magic and witchcraft in Hogwarts, but we are in a parliament, in front of a government that must present programs that can have a balance and a feasibility. We are aware that this country needs to leave; entrepreneurs and families gave us confidence, on March 4, because they believe that we are credible. Entrepreneurs want to start again to risk, to recover, and with less taxes. It is not true that the wealthiest will benefit: I know dozens of entrepreneurs at all levels ready to risk everything for their business, just for the soul they have of entrepreneurs; happy to be able to hire, expand, export, produce, study new patents. This is the fabric of our entrepreneurs, our industries. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] , but also of our artisans, who with much more difficulty have to do research and development, but they do it because they believe us, and have found in this Government a reason to start hoping. As I said at the beginning, voters are always right: this feeling has turned into a very simple vote, which gives the new government the mandate to try to change the trend of this country and a red card and a rejection to PD. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u61	DAMIANI (FI-BP). Mr President, representatives of the Government, fellow Senators, we are called today to declare our vote on the general state statement of 2017 and on the maneuvering of the public accounts of 2018. We interpret and evaluate numbers, you might think. Instead, I would like to clear the field from this idea immediately. In the accounts of a State, or rather of a nation, which includes not only the concept of State apparatus but also the concept of State-Community, numbers are not abstractions: instead, they are a synthesis of tangible realities, factors that guide the present and the future of all of us citizens. The figures we are examining today speak to us of public expenditure, of investments made or missed, of domestic production, of work, of tax pressure, of services rendered or not rendered to citizens. They speak to us, therefore, about everyday life, about how the previous Government - for the 2017 report - and the current one - for the 2018 settlement - have been able to interpret and satisfy the expectations of the citizens. It is clear, therefore, that these general documents best reflect the premises and effects of political action carried out over a certain period of time; political documents, therefore, are not technical acts, as someone is trying to get them through this evening in this House. In this sense, our assessment will be an all-political one, meaning the ability of the rulers to read the needs of a community, to identify the most effective solutions and to translate them consistently into measures capable of having a positive impact on the reality of the country. It is useful, in any case, to report some critical issues that we have found as a Forza Italia political group regarding the 2017 report. Firstly, the weight of overall expenditure, in relation to GDP, rose from 48.2% in 2016 to 49.8% of GDP in 2017. The residue account at 31 December 2017 shows active residues of EUR 204 million and liabilities of around 138 million, with a surplus of EUR 66 billion. In 2017, therefore, the residue phenomenon continues to remain at considerable levels, both on the revenue side and on the exit side. Public savings are less than 12 billion euros, down by more than 3 billion compared to 2016. It indicates that current expenditure payments have exceeded the receipts recorded on current revenue. Then there is also a deterioration in the debt situation in the medium to long term of around EUR 27 billion. One spends too much, but above all one spends badly, as rightly notes not the undersigned, but the Court of Auditors, critical of the excessive level of debt of our country, which limits its design capacity of medium and long term. Hence the need to restore debt to sustainability. We are not in favour of austerity policies, but we are in favour of sustainability: debt must be sustained, contrary to what some important and authoritative members of the Government claim, especially in recent weeks. Nothing has been done to rationalise, for example, the purchasing power stations for public goods and services. As the former Commissioner for spending reviews often points out, in practice, EUR 40 billion of expenditure is purchased arbitrarily by public administrations. There could be a lot of impact on this expenditure. These are the numbers of the account; let's move on to the settlement. On the basis of these stocks, we need to verify what has been done with the settlement bill. As many Members have said in this House and as Mr Marsilio said a moment ago, nothing has been done at all by this Government, on the contrary. There are many questions that we have asked in the political debate, mainly from the reduction of transfers to certain administrations, especially to regional administrations (about 858 million less), to pension funds (1,350 million less). As we said, in the course of the debate many issues were also raised to the Government regarding the significant reduction of primary current expenditure on transfers and the deterioration of about 77 billion euros of the passive surplus compared to the previous year's balance sheet. The question of cuts in public expenditure seems to us to be dealt with superficially by the Commission from the point of view of quantity alone, whereas it should be considered more carefully in terms of the quality of the final services that are being rendered to the community; this too is highlighted by the Court of Auditors. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the photograph of the current accounting situation in our country. The substantial absence of changes in the settlement, where the government in office could already have taken steps in the direction of what was advertised in the electoral campaign, is a clear indicator of bluffing, because the numbers tell a whole other story than the promises. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We are told that we lack the resources to finance everything that has been promised and that we are not even able to tell where to find them. Therefore, the summits of the Ministry of Economy and Finance are attacked precisely because you do not have the answers. Rather, the impression is that this double-soul government is rowing against common sense: 30-40 billion cuts are called for, when the scissors of spending cuts can be up to 3 billion; the financial maneuver is confused with a ground of confrontation, to the detriment of the seriousness and credibility of a united and shared program; statements are issued that are punctually contradicted a few hours later, generating chaos in the markets, in which the savings of families are also burned. Under the test of facts, the original sin of propaganda emerges in all its evidence: the gap, the void between the promises and the feasibility is uncompromising and it will sooner or later have to be taken into account and made a reason for it. The country needs to pursue a serious development program, which affects structural factors and has long-term horizons; it needs a positive shock, able to free resources and direct them in the direction of growth, increased consumption, domestic demand, that gives oxygen to production and that creates work. Reduction of tax pressure, labour costs, investments in infrastructure, ad hoc policies for the South and for young people: these are the priorities of the country, which the program of the center-right and above all of Forza Italia had put to the attention of the electorate; priorities that find confirmation in the numbers we are discussing today, that leave no room for interventions of welfare ends in themselves. On the other hand, today we even read about the assumption of cuts in deductions for mortgages, university fees and medical expenses, in order to try to raise some money that goes to finance the income of citizenship. Unfortunately, it does not seem to us that the current government has been able to intercept the real needs of the country, which requires development and not subsistence support. The only important measure we have taken in this House in recent months has been the so-called Dignity Decree, on which the forecasts of analysts and trade associations are negative and in agreement: they even estimate a contraction of jobs of about 120,000. I conclude with a hint of the last measure, which has had the greatest media resonance, especially in this month, relating to the Morandi bridge in Genoa, on which we still do not have the State coverage. The story is really absurd and you comment on it yourself. So there are many pieces that make up a worrying picture of lightness in the management of public affairs, of inability and impossibility to take a consistent path compared to what was promised in the electoral campaign. Since - like it or not - the economic scenario in which we are immersed is rapidly deteriorating, as certified also in recent weeks by the main indicators, the Government has the precise duty to make known urgently to the country and the world its own strategy. These numbers - as I stated in the premise - are not symbols or graphic signs, but synthetic expressions of our everyday reality, of the quality of life of the ordinary citizen as of the small company or of the large enterprise, need to be supported by a surplus of credibility and reliability to withstand the confrontation with national and international expectations. The time of vague desires has expired: if you have political tools to seriously govern the complexity of reality, it is time to prove it. For these who - as I said before - are not aseptic numbers, both the statement and the balance sheet adjustment, but are today the heart and also the problem - alas - of our country, for all this and for the assessments so far set out we express a firm and decisive political vote: we express our "no" both on the balance sheet and on the balance sheet adjustment. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Marsilio. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u64	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators, representatives of the Government, this House will today vote on the 2017 accounts and on the 2018 settlement. These are related measures, since the general statement of the State is the instrument through which the Government informs Parliament of the results of the budgetary management in the middle of the financial year, while the allocation is intended to update, again in the middle of the financial year, the appropriations of the budget, also on the basis of the size of the assets and liabilities established in the accounts. We are dealing, therefore, with the budget law for 2018 that we inherit from the previous Executive and from the previous legislature and that, with all the evidence, is the product of antithetical political and economic visions to those of the Movimento 5 Stars. We have never shared those choices of economic policy, because they did not have as their objective the citizens, the families and their needs, nor did they put at the center of attention and political action the young people, the weak or disadvantaged groups, but they obeyed formulas and assumptions that then turned out to be wrong, as many had predicted. In these political years such have literally ruined the life of so many Italians and - ironic of fate, let me say bitter irony of fate - have not solved or started to solve any of the problems that afflict our country for years. But all this for us is the past. These days we are working to offer the country a real change, a radical change of pace. In the coming weeks we will present our budget law, which will contain measures that we consider indispensable for the country and thanks to which we will allow many of our compatriots, especially those who have suffered to a greater extent in these years, the possibility of a better life, the possibility of finding a decent job, the possibility of getting married, of having children and of accessing a health care and a quality school for all. We want to offer them the desire to look to the future with confidence and we will do so by approving the measures and reforms that we have promised in the electoral campaign and that will allow the country to grow in a sustainable way, to develop and be fairer, fairer and more supportive. Ultimately, we will approve rules in matters that constitute the cornerstones of the Government contract, which this Parliamentary Group supports and supports with conviction and determination. We will change the policies of obtuse austerity of recent years; sensible policies that have caused a significant deterioration in the living conditions of many citizens, without however bringing improvements in the public accounts, expected that both the public debt and the debt-to-GDP ratio have increased, and, last but not least, the cash data have deteriorated, as evidenced by the dossiers that are attached to the measures we are dealing with: from these emerges a worsening of both the net financial balance, and the use of the market and, finally, of the general account of the assets. Unfortunately they are numbers: just read them. We will change these policies, but - be careful - we do not plan to waste resources, to do welfare and to make contributions in the rain. On the contrary, we want to eliminate waste and huge unproductive expenditure. We want to make spending efficient and smart, capable of having a positive and multiplier impact on the economy. In a few weeks, therefore, our budget law will be known, which will finally come back to the real needs of citizens and which will deal with the three fundamental issues of the government contract: citizenship income, pensions and the reduction of the tax burden. The income of citizenship will restore dignity to the many Italians who are out of work and cannot find it, because there is no offer or because they are not trained for professions required at this time by the market. This measure will be aimed at those who are below the poverty line, which unfortunately are many in our country: about 9 million, of which 4 million are in absolute poverty. These numbers are chilling and no man or woman in our Republic should be able to accept as a fatal and inescapable event. The poor or almost poor who have increased dramatically in these years of austerity and the accounts falsely in order, thus certifying the total failure of these policies that have had as a consequence the transfer of resources from those who have less to those who have more and more: the poor are increasingly poor and the rich are getting richer. The income of citizenship will help many citizens regain dignity and freedom because, as President Sandro Pertini said, "Freedom without social justice is not that it is a fragile conquest, which is resolved for many in the freedom to die of hunger." [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bonfrisco]] President Pertini said again: It is necessary that the Government strives to find sources of work, to ensure that all Italians have a job. That is what the government must do, that is what Parliament must do, and we intend to do exactly as President Pertini said. So we will restore dignity and freedom to those who do not now have it. Our citizenship income will not be a commercial measure, but will involve millions of Italians, unlike the inclusion income (REI), established by previous governments. In order to obtain this, training courses will be required, working eight hours a week for the municipality in which you reside and you will not be able to refuse more than three job proposals. In order to do this, we will also reform employment centres, which is an indispensable measure to bring labour supply and demand together. The employment centres, moreover, operate throughout Europe, especially in Northern Europe and in those nations, the resources and employees employed in the sector are very large and the results are very flattering as a result of these investments. We will also act on pensions: we will pass the Fornero law by setting up a 100th share and we will give the citizenship pension. Therefore, minimum pensions for the individual citizen will be raised to EUR 780. Some of the necessary resources will be taken by cutting gold pensions, i.e. we will cut the amount exceeding EUR 4,500 per month, but only to those who receive a pension higher than the contributions actually paid. Those who, on the other hand, take a pension in line with the contributions paid will of course not be affected. He will not be a proletarian expropriation, but a measure of equity and social justice. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] We're not gonna stop here. We want to help VAT consignments, small, micro and medium-sized enterprises, which constitute the country's productive backbone. We will reduce the tax burden, which is now unsustainable for many, and drives many businesses, artisans and professionals to close down or, for those who can, to relocate. They will also simplify the tax system, but always in accordance with the principles laid down in Article 53 of the Constitution. Entrepreneurs and VAT consignments must be freed from paperwork and unnecessary formalities. They must be able to work and build wealth for the country and must know that they have to follow and apply few simple rules to be in compliance with the tax and the requirements required and imposed by the laws and regulations. However, if they pay or evade the tax, the penalties will be severe and they will suffer and - we are sure - this will be a valid deterrent. Some say that we of the Movimento 5 Stars are statists, that we do not see with good eye the free undertaken. Nothing more false and the measures just listed show it. Ladies and gentlemen, what greater demonstration of love - let me say the term - for companies that we in Movimento 5 Stars every month - we do this every month - we take part of the salary and dedicate it to the guarantee fund for small businesses? [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] We're the only ones who do this. If you want, so can you and I assure you that at the end of the month you will feel better. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Thanks to us new businesses are born and many jobs have been created. Thanks to us and our money. This is a part of what we will do in the coming weeks. They are structural interventions that have as their goal the medium and the long term, in order to give confidence and certainty to the country, to the citizens, to the economic operators and to the international investors. We will not make clauses in the ad personam or ad company budget law, we will not give electoral tips: we will make serious, long-term policies, as our great country deserves. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Thank you for your support. We'll see about that in the next few months. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u65	You have to finish, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u66	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). I shall conclude, Mr President. As I said, the measures that we are going to vote on today do not reflect our vision and our programmes but, at the same time, we are well aware that their lack of approval would have serious repercussions on the country. We must and we want to look ahead and work in the wake of the government contract. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I conclude by recalling two statesmen. I come from a land that gave birth to two great men of the institutions, to two servants of the State: Aldo Moro and Giuseppe Di Vittorio. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I have a title just like you to quote him! [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u67	Let me conclude by saying that my colleague must conclude at this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u68	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Since part of my family is from Cerignola, as a child I was in those places and I saw pictures of Di Vittorio how much and perhaps more than you. The latter was an agricultural laborer, then trade unionist and parliamentary. A great man who, because of the poor conditions of his family, had not spent much time in school, but who throughout his life - first as a trade unionist and then here in Parliament - fought for the workers, the last and the helpless. It was another time, a time when caring for the poor was a boast, not like today. And no one at that time would ever have been allowed to ask him to account for a lack of graduation in order to diminish his political proposals, as you do today. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] Well, all we will do in the coming months and weeks will be to take an example from the great men I have just mentioned, and we will bring citizens back to the centre of political and economic choices. In view of the above-mentioned announcement, with the same statement, the favorable vote of the Parliamentary Group Movimento 5 Stars, both on the Report of the 2017 budget and on the Assetment. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u69	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the voting by simultaneous ballot of bill No 803, as a whole, with annexes 1 and 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 804, as a whole, with the annexed tables. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u72	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 79 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the bill n. 257, which contains "Ratification and Implementation of the Framework Convention of the Council of Europe on the Value of Cultural Heritage for Society, made in Faro on 27 October 2005" is made by the Group, having the necessary signatures.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u75	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, pursuant to Rule 79 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, I announce that the draft law No 603 was made by the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u76	The Presidency takes note of both requests.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u79	TEXTOR (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that today is the European Day of Languages, celebrated on 26 September each year and set up by the Council of Europe to promote language teaching within the Union. Among the objectives of this European initiative, we find in particular the promotion of Europe's rich linguistic and cultural diversity, which must be preserved and promoted in order to strengthen integration and at the same time enhance minority languages, including the least widely used languages. Regional and minority languages are part of the European cultural heritage and their protection and promotion contributes to the construction of a Europe based on democracy and cultural diversity. In this connection, I would like to point out on this occasion that on 1 March 1998 the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages, drawn up by the Council of Europe and currently in force, has entered into force, because it has been ratified, in 25 Member States of the Council. Italy signed the Charter in 2000, after the adoption of Law No 482 of 1999, which adopts the principles of this international act to defend the historical linguistic minorities present on Italian territory, but has not yet ratified the Charter. That is why I, together with other fellow signatories, tabled the bill No 711 concerning the ratification and implementation of the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages, which was drawn up in Strasbourg on 5 November 1992, which proposes, in substance, the text of the draft law of ratification approved in the past legislature by the United Commissions 1a and 3a of the Senate, whose procedure has been arrested in the Chamber. I hope that this proposal will be able to reach the agreement of other Members and that this time we can quickly reach approval. For this reason I urge its calendarization, so that in Italy too, linguistic diversity can be valued as a tool for better intercultural understanding and a key element in the rich cultural heritage of our continent. I would like to remind you that in every country of Europe there are proud territories of their historical, cultural roots and belonging to linguistic minorities, such as the Ladin one of which I honour to be part and to represent. Develpai de cher. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u82	ORTOLANI (M5S). Mr President, I wanted to talk about a problem which in recent days, particularly last week, has affected and is affecting the plegrea area around Naples, with some earthquakes of low magnitude, but which have occurred in the urban area of Pozzuoli, between Solfatara and Agnano. They have raised great concern because they are linked to bradisism, a phenomenon that affected the area in a very large way between 1983 and 1985, causing a strong economic crisis throughout the area, which is mainly based on the economy of tourism and catering. I would point out that the area in which Pozzuoli and the Flegrea area are located is at high volcanic risk and has been delimited for several years. In particular, the red zone - we are talking about an area with about 700,000 inhabitants - is the area for which preventive evacuation - is identified as the only safeguard measure for the population. That's according to National Civil Protection. The new red zone for the Flegrei Camps includes, like the one already identified in the 2001 plan, the territories potentially exposed to the invasion of destructive pyroclastic flows. What does that mean? It means that, in the event of a volcanic explosion, as happened in another historical period, most citizens would have little chance of surviving, so the population must be evacuated before the event, providing the red zone with new and suitable radial routes that allow an easy evacuation. It also means that the number of citizens exposed to volcanic risk cannot be increased, so new residences cannot be built to accommodate new citizens in a fixed way. In a part of the Municipality of Pozzuoli, of about twenty square kilometers, occurs also periodically the bradisismic phenomenon, that causes abnormal deformations of the soil damaging the artifacts that have not been made suitable to resist the stresses, that are not only the seismic ones, as already evidenced in 1984. Up to now no rules have been enacted by the competent institutions regulating human activity in the high-risk volcanic zone of Phlegreus. It is a densely populated area and I believe that we need a provision from local and even state institutions that drastically bans the possibility of new settlements. I conclude by pointing out that this serious situation is being determined at a time of crisis of the summits of the National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology, a structure of great importance, equipped with researchers of the highest level who need transparent guidance, at the service of all citizens. I believe we must take responsibility for the safety of all citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u85	ROMAGNOLI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on Friday 6 July, in Piediripa, Macerata, a fire involved the company Orim, dedicated to the storage and disposal of industrial and special waste. I don't know if you remember the event. The following days, together with the deputy Mirella Emiliozzi and with the advisors Roberto Cherubini and Gian Mario Mercorelli of Tolentino, I visited the site concerned and participated in a meeting with the population, organized by the local committee. On 12 July last, in this House, I informed you of the situation and the serious danger to which the population and the civilian and military workers involved in the emergency had been subjected. During my speech, I called for in-depth analysis of air, soil, water and vegetable samples, as well as maximum transparency in tackling citizenship. What happened? Following the analyses carried out by the Regional Agency for the Environmental Protection of the Marches (ARPAM) of Macerata only on 6 September last, the water values were slightly higher than the legal limits. How much? Let me give you an example. toluene, whose statutory limit is 15 micrograms per litre, was found to be 2.290; dichloroethane, whose legal limit is 3 micrograms per litre, was found to be 7.336 micrograms per litre; trichloroethane, whose legal limit is 0.2 micrograms per litre, was found to be 3.676.18 micrograms per litre; tetrachloroethane, whose legal limit is 0.05 micrograms per litre, was found to be 554 micrograms per litre. That is why the emergency of my intervention and the will to share it with you. The mayor of Macerata only issued today an order prohibiting the use of water from 300 meters upstream to 800 meters downstream of the plant. In the meantime, there are continuous reports from the operators and the military involved on the day of the fire that, absurdly, were deprived of the appropriate personal protective devices they accuse continuous malaria and, even, in a couple of cases, they have turned to the safety organs in the workplace for pathologies found following the intervention in Piediripa. Among other things, a military involved is undergoing an absurd disciplinary procedure for reporting this to the competent doctor, without following, according to his superiors, the hierarchical line. We immediately activated to officially have from the commands of the Forces of Order, from the Fire Departments and the military the real number of the operators involved. In addition, we will officially ask ARPAM for all the analyses carried out these days, so as to have a complete picture of the situation to be submitted to the attention of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, which has already made itself available to participate. We will urge the competent authorities to act immediately to assist the local bodies and take all necessary measures, even drastic ones, while at the same time ascertaining any administrative, civil and criminal responsibilities. Finally, I call for maximum transparency with regard to citizenship, which is so far totally inadequate and insufficient. This is a very serious situation. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u86	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-40.ana.u87	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 27 September, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.30 p.m.
