ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u1	The sitting is open (11.10 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Montevecchi, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 13 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: "Rome, 13 June 2018 Mr President, I inform the S.V. that the President of the Republic, by his own decree today, adopted on my proposal, after hearing the Council of Ministers, appointed the following Subsecretaries of State: to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers: - pres. Mr Luciano BARRA CARACCIOLO; - on Dr. Mr Stefano BUFFAGNI; - on. Ms Giuseppina Castiello; - sen. Vito Claudio CRIMI; - on. Dr. Mr Mattia FANTINATI; - on Guido GUIDESI; - sen. Dr. Vincenzo SANTANGELO; - on. Vincenzo SPadafora; - on. Mr Simone VALENTE; - Mr Simone VALENTE; - Mr Simone VALENTE; - Mr Simone VALENTE; - Mr Simone VALENTE; Vincenzo ZOCCANO; for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation: - on Dr. Emanuela Claudia DEL RE; - on. Dr. MANLIO DI STEFANO; - sen. Dr. Mr Ricardo Antonio MERLO; - on. Dr. Guglielmo PICCHI; for the Interior: - sen. Stefano CANDIANI; - Dr. Mr Luigi GAETTI; - on. Dr. Mr Nicola Molteni; - on Dr. Carlo SIBILIA; for Justice: - on. Dr. Vittorio Ferraresi; - on. av. Jacopo Morrone; for the Defense: - on. Dr. Mr Angelo TOFALO; - on. Raffaele VOLPI; for the Economy and Finance: - on. Dr. Mr BITONCI; - on. Ms Laura Castelli; - on. Dr. Massimo Garavaglia; - on. Dr. Alessio Mattia VILLAROSA; for Economic Development: - sen. Dr. Mr Andrea CIOFFI; - on. Dr. Mr Davide CRIPPA; - on Dr. Dario GALLI; - prof. Michele GERACI; for agricultural food and forestry policies: - on. Dr. Franco MANZATO; - Dr. Alessandra PESFE; for the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea: - on. Vannia GAVA; - on Dr. Mr Salvatore MICILLO; for Infrastructure and Transport: - Mr Salvatore MICILLO; - Mr Salvatore MICILLO; - Mr Salvatore MICILLO; - Mr Salvatore MICILLO; - Mr Salvatore MICILLO; - Mr Salvatore MICILLO; - Mr Salvatore MICILLO; - Mr Salvatore MICILLO; - Mr Salvatore MICILLO; - Mr Salvatore MICILLO; Mr Michele DELL'ORCO; - on Dr. Edoardo RIXI; - sen. Armando SIRI; for Labour and Social Policy: - on. Claudio COMINARDI; - on. Claudio DUIGON; for education, university and research: - prof. on. Lorenzo Fioramonti; - Prof. Salvatore Giuliano; for the Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism: - sen. dott. Lucia BORGONZONI; - on. Dr. Gianluca VACCA; for Health: - prof. Armando BARTOLAZZI; - on. Dr. Maurizio FUGATI. F.to Giuseppe Conte. The Senate wishes the Undersecretaries good work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u6	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, as you know and as I said at the meeting of the Leaders, the Democratic Party Group, pursuant to Rule 105 (1-a) of the Senate Rules of Procedure, made a regular request on 14 June for an information request to help Minister Bonafede explain his position and his reports, which have now appeared public and evident from the inquiries published in the newspapers. In view of this legitimate request made by the Democratic Party, the Minister's reactions have led to a very serious fact, Mr President, which I feel obliged to point out to you. In fact, Minister Alfonso Bonafede, who in the past - and I must say also recently - had shown support for the transparency, clarity and even centrality of Parliament, has defined our legitimate request as a snare within the Senate and Parliament, Mr President. [[Applause from the PD Group. Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] These words are unacceptable on our part and we ask you, at this point, for immediate clarification by the Minister and by the President-in-Office of the Council. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr President, Minister and representatives of the Government, you see, Parliament is not only the place, as you have heard in recent weeks, of the division of the quaestors' armchairs rather than the Vice Presidents. Parliament, the Senate of the Republic, is the place where we confront ourselves, where we criticize ourselves, where we control and ask for transparency. We apologise from Minister Alfonso Bonafede. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups.]] His words on television are offensive to us all and also to you, because this is how we begin to deal with Parliament and we do not know where we are going. We therefore call for the Minister to come and apologize immediately to all of us. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u9	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, we too hope that the Minister of Justice will have more verbal continence and more weight than his role. However, the Minister is an important figure, but the Minister of Justice is particularly important because he is the only one specifically mentioned in the Constitution. He must therefore, more than anyone else, respect for the role of Parliament, respect for his demands, with which he can disagree; he may have the views he wants, but he must still have respect. This is indispensable in democratic dynamics. We are maintaining an attitude of loyal relationship with the Government, we do not in any way dispute its legitimacy, but it is certain that on the part of the Government and in particular of the Minister of Justice (especially in the present circumstances), we must demand an attitude of respect and language in accordance with the role played. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u10	The next item is the debate on document LVII, No 1. The rapporteur, Senator Bagnai, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u11	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, because of the transition period, the DEF which we are considering has been submitted late in relation to the natural deadlines and does not include any commitment for the future, but is limited to a description of international economic and financial developments, an update of the macroeconomic forecasts for Italy and the resulting public finance framework. For the purposes of the discussion, I will provide a summary of the main elements that the Government proposes for the evaluation of the Chambers, articulating it according to the main sections of the document and providing limited points of analysis. Of course, I am referring to the previous government. In particular, I will highlight the main changes in the proposed scenarios compared to the Update Note to the DEF presented by the previous Government last September. As regards the macroeconomic framework described in the Stability Programme in Table 1 of Chapter 1, during the forecast period taken into account in the DEF, the estimates include GDP growth of 1.5% in 2018, 1.4% in 2019 and a reduction in the unemployment rate to 10.7 in 2018 and 10.2 in 2019. The main change in relation to NADEF 2017 is an upward revision of growth of 0.3 and 0.2 points respectively due to the most favourable international framework, reflecting also the guidelines of the International Monetary Fund, which between October 2017 and April 2018 revised the real growth of the Italian economy to a similar extent. Before providing other elements of evaluation of this forecast framework, I just observe that, crossing it with the demographic forecasts of Istat, it is found that, in the light of this growth, in 2021 the GDP per capita of the Italians will be equal to approximately 27,700 euros, at the prices of 2010, that is still below the maximum before the crisis, which was reached in 2007 with 28,699 euros, and close to the value of 2003, which was 27,684 euros according to the AMECO. The forecast framework was assessed by the Parliamentary Budget Office in accordance with the European Union Regulation 473 of 2013, the so-called two pack, which validated it, however, at the hearing on 9 May 2013 as the previous Government's forecasts are close to, or marginally higher than, the maximum forecast provided by independent evaluators. Several observers, including Confindustria in its hearing on 15 May, pointed out the risk of overestimate of growth, in particular due to the fact that the forecast does not reflect the recessive effect caused by the activation of the so-called safeguard clauses (which we will talk about later). In this respect, I would like to point out that, compared to the moment when the forecasts were made, there was fragility in German growth. Eurostat has last month certified that the rate of German growth on a quarterly basis has halved (from 0.6 per cent in the last quarter of 2017 to 0.3 per cent in the first quarter of 2018, aligning with the Italian one, starting from 0.4 per cent) and the Europe Research Centre (CER), one of the independent evaluators considered by the Parliamentary Budget Office, in its update note of 14 May last shows a slowdown in Italian growth. It is therefore worth remembering in this context that a model of growth such as the German model, which is essentially based on exports, i.e. demand from the rest of the world, exposes to obvious repercussions when recessionary tensions occur in the rest of the world: more reason why the Government insists on asking Germany to rebalance its model of growth on domestic demand, in the general interest of the European project. This requirement is all the more timely in the light of the sensitivity analyses carried out in the DEF by the previous government compared to the main risk factors related to geopolitical, commercial and financial tensions that are evident at global level, tensions to which the decision on Iranian nuclear agreements has been added, which are also likely to affect the activity of our companies operating in that country. A first group of risks concerns financial stability: this could be negatively affected by the current situation of high stock prices, low and little differentiated bond yields, reduced volatility, to which investor management has become accustomed, and high levels of public debt, but above all private in some emerging countries. To this must be added the risk factor linked to a possible tightening of the financial market conditions linked to the next end of the quantitative easing, announced by Mario Draghi on 14 June. It should also be noted, as a mere statistic, that the monthly data of the Standard & Poor's 500 index indicate that the US stock market has been expanding since the end of 2009. An expansion of 112 months, which appears to be the longest in post-war history after that of the nineties, which lasted 114 months, and to which unconventional monetary policies on either side of the Atlantic have undoubtedly contributed. A second risk factor concerns the possible evolution of protectionist measures initiated by the United States, to which the DEF devotes a special focus, articulated according to two different scenarios, one more intense and the other more moderate. It should be noted, however, that there is no sensitivity analysis of the forecast framework compared to two crucial variables: the euro-dollar exchange rate, which could be higher than expected due inter alia to the very high surplus of the Eurozone (mainly attributable to the German economy), poorly tolerated by the United States, and the price of oil, for which there are substantially similar considerations. Another factor of fragility of the European project emerges here, which can only be corrected by a desirable cooperative attitude of Germany, namely the need to maintain the exchange rate of the euro relatively undervalued compared to the German fundamentals, in order to avoid oppressing the peripheral countries. From this it follows that, with the goods of Germany, the macroeconomic imbalances of the whole area are also exported to the rest of the world and to countries such as the United States, which currently do not appear willing to play forever the role of buyers of last instance of the world economy, as widely predictable. As far as public finance is concerned, the trend picture is expected to reduce the deficit to 1.6% of GDP in 2018 and 0.8% in 2019, with the primary surplus growing to 1.9 percent and 2.7% respectively. Government debt is expected to fall to 130.8% of GDP in the current year and to 128% next year. The main change to the framework proposed by NADEF 2017 concerns the accounting of interventions in favour of the banking system. In this regard, I recall that with the report to the Parliament presented to the Chambers on 19 December 2016, pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 2012, the Government requested permission to issue public debt securities up to a maximum of EUR 20 billion for 2017, for the possible adoption of such measures. The update note to the DEF 2017 stated that, as financial consignments, a zero impact on the net debt of general government was assumed. It should be recalled that the verification of quantifications No 555, carried out by the Budget Service on 6 July 2017, had highlighted the need for further investigations. In its Communication of 4 April 2018, Istat corrected the considerations expressed in NADEF 2017 by taking into account some revisions of the data on net debt and debt for 2017, largely due to the inclusion in the estimates of these indicators of the effects of the transactions on banks in difficulty. These revisions are mostly ascribed to the decision taken by Eurostat in its opinion published on 3 April 2018, which provided methodological guidance on the correct accounting treatment of transactions relating to Venetian banks, giving them an impact, not only for the purposes of needs, but also for net debt (i.e. unlike NADEF 2017). The data provided show that the transactions related to banks in difficulty have also had an impact in 2017 on net debt of around 6.3 billion, of which about 1.6 billion came from operations related to Monte Paschi di Siena and about 4.8 billion from operations on banks in Veneto. The Eurostat Decision also amended the impact on the debt of transactions relating to Venetian banks. Taking into account these changes, a gradual reduction in the trend deficit is expected both in absolute value and as a percentage of GDP, reaching a substantial balance in 2020 and a slight surplus in the last forecast year. The improvement is mainly due to the increase in the primary surplus, which is expected to rise to 3.7 percent of GDP in 2021. Interest expenditure is expected to fall from 3.8 percent of GDP in 2017 to 3.5 percent in 2018, and then stabilise. However, even as a result of the events of banks in difficulty, the so-called "debt rule" does not appear to be respected on the basis of any of the three known criteria laid down in European law. As regards the improvement of the primary surplus, this is mainly due to a reduction in the impact on GDP of primary expenditure, in particular those of a current nature, given the nature of the forecast in force. In this regard, there is a certain alarm in the public opinion as shown in Table 2.2 of the Analysis and Trends of Public Finance, according to which health expenditure would fall below the minimum level recommended by the OECD, equal to 6.5% of GDP, also highlighted by the representative of the Conference of Regions and Autonomous Provinces at the hearing on 15 May. A trend that recalls the well-known words of the American linguist and philosopher Chomsky: The standard technique of privatisation is this: it cuts public funds. [[Applause from Senator Morra]] Please ensure that the public service does not work and that its users become angry, and then devolvolvollo to private capital. We note, incidentally, that the same hearing has shown that the contribution to the debt recovery of public administrations is being largely done by local authorities, causing obvious difficulties in providing services to the citizens who compete with them. In addition, the economic and financial framework envisaged in the DEF, which is not programmed in nature, covers the increase in indirect taxes in 2019 and, to a lesser extent, in 2020, provided for by the safeguard clauses in force. As has already been the case in recent years, this increase can - and I would say must - be replaced by alternative measures with future legislative interventions that will be evaluated by the current Government. The DEF also updates the trend forecasts for the structural balance, which are expected to gradually improve from an estimate of less than 1.1% in 2017 to a slight surplus in 2020 (plus 0.1), which is also expected to be maintained in 2021. On this point, it should be noted that the European Commission estimates a structural balance worse than the DEF of less than 0.6 points of GDP in 2017, less 0.7 points in 2018 and less 1.6 points in 2019. In all three years, there is a different assessment of the cyclical component of the budget which, according to the Commission, is 0.6 percentage points lower than estimated by the DEF. This divergence is largely due to the different methodologies used by the Government and the Commission to estimate the output gap. While retaining some scientific reservations about this criterion, the rapporteur acknowledges that the Government has proposed and partially applied a reform of the methodology for calculating the output gap which is less penalising for our country. For further details on this issue, please refer to the fourth paragraph of the report on "Factors relevant to the development of Italian public debt," drawn up pursuant to Article 126 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and published by the MEF last month. Progress remains to be made in this area, in particular by requiring employees in cash benefits to be taken into account in the so-called Labour Market Slack measure. A marginally more pessimistic forecast of the Commission's overall budget balance (the Commission estimates it to be less than 1.7 points of GDP, while the Government expects it to be less than 1.6 points) is also reflected in its structural component. In 2019, the different assumptions on the safeguard clauses (which corresponds to an improvement in the balance of 0.7 points of GDP included in the DEF forecast) are reversed in the Commission's scenario without compensation; furthermore, the Commission takes a more precautionary approach to other budgetary positions, which means that net debt is overall higher than the DEF estimates of about 1 point of GDP. The third section of the DEF 2018 refers to the National Reform Programme (NRP), which, in close relation to what is foreseen in the Stability Programme, defines the actions to be taken to achieve the national objectives of growth, productivity, employment and sustainability of public finances, in line with the guidelines formulated by the European institutions in the so-called European Semester. In this context, the macroeconomic scenario and the foreseeable effects of the reforms, the government's action and the state of progress of the reforms undertaken, in relation to the recommendations made by the Council of the European Union, are set out and the framework for the actions included in the policy actions for cohesion policies is set out. The financial impact of the measures of the National Reform Programme is also reported, with reference to the details in the grids attached to it. In our view, paragraph II.3 of the National Reform Programme deserves particular attention, which analyses the issue of the reduction of credit losses in the banking system. We welcome a physiological recovery in disposal associated with the general recovery in economic growth, but we believe that care should be taken not to give too much impetus to this process, in particular by considering with due caution any calls for this to be made by European bodies. In other words, it must be avoided that an accelerated disposal of the property guarantees, in a scenario of growth that however presents risks of slowing down, puts in ulterior difficulty the economy, with criticalities found also from the National Association construction manufacturers (ANCE) in its hearing of 15 May 2018. As Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte pointed out in exposing the Government's programme to the Chamber of Deputies, caution should also be exercised in proceeding with the reform of cooperative credit, an area which is not particularly urgent, having demonstrated particular resilience during the crisis. In addition to an indication of institutional interlocations with autonomous regions and provinces in the preparation of the PNR, the section complements a final part of which takes into account the progress made in the framework of the European Strategy. After last year's experimental exercise, the DEF 2018 is accompanied by indicators of fair and sustainable well-being (the so-called BES): these are 12 indicators of different areas that characterise the quality of life of citizens related to inequality, education, health, environment, safety, etc. Following the trial of four indicators, Italy is the first country in the European Union and the G7 to have a set of well-being indicators to measure the impact of public policies, usually assessed on a few macroeconomic and public finance indicators, among which, of course, GDP first. I would like to point out in this sense that the Senate, through its Impact Assessment Office (UVI), proposes interesting methodological insights and extensions of the analyses proposed by the DEF on the BES. For any further details, reference to the documentation prepared by the Services Studies and Budget of the Rooms, which will assist the discussion that will follow. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u12	Motions for resolutions on this document will have to be tabled before the end of the debate. As announced in the short walks, I immediately convoke the Conference of the Leaders in Sala Pannini.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and members of the Government, the DEF is the key document in economic planning. Having been born between two legislatures, what we are debating here refrains from indicating elements of direction and for this reason, as I imagine, there will be a Note of update preparatory to the budget law. (at 11.28 a.m.) (Follow Steger). In any case, the DEF under discussion allows an analysis of the overall situation: Italy grows steadily, albeit very slowly, and in a situation of substantial control of its own accounts. This attention must not become an obstacle to growth: the experience of these years teaches us that rigour alone does not start economic recovery. It is necessary to focus with conviction on the elements of value. In fact, tourism, the productive sector, agriculture, Made in Italy not only lead to an increase in exports, but also to a renewed attention from foreign investors. That is why the obstacles arising from a legal system perceived as slow and inefficient and a public administration that must meet the challenge must be removed. The European Commission has made this clear: Italy does not only have the problem of public debt, it also needs effective reforms to attack a whole range of structural problems. Entrepreneurs complain about the slowness and uncertainties in the award of tenders, with a high risk of appeals and blocking work, which the new procurement code seems to have exacerbated. Small and medium-sized enterprises, on the other hand, are calling for more agile tools to facilitate the encounter between demand and occasional supply of work, a special tool that will lead to the elimination of vouchers. We need to make everything lighter, including the bureaucracy that constitutes a hidden tax, especially for small and very small enterprises. And we need to radically renew our training system, starting with the university: among the top 150 in the world there is not even an Italian one. Of course, there is no shortage of excellence as well as an entrepreneurial fabric that is able to earn esteem and respect on the great world markets; but they have proved - I think - the result of the commitment and ingenuity of individuals, in some cases grown not thanks to the country system but despite the country system. The next few years will be those of the new technology revolution, from the advent of 5G, to industry and company 4.0. We need up-to-date professionalism, which will enable the development of these sectors. But there must also be a reflection on the jobs that will be lost, on the conversion of this workforce, on the possibilities for employment in sectors that still have large growth margins, from tourism to new agriculture. Again, labour costs must be reduced, as recommended by the European Commission. The measures of previous governments have been important and subject to controversy that they did not deserve. We need to move forward, and we also need to strengthen the school-work alternation. In the German dual system there are about three hundred professional routes, you have the right to a pay and a holiday period. It is a real start to work where, alongside rights, there are duties; it is estimated that, against a cost per enterprise of 12,000 euros, apprentices produce goods and services for 17,000 euros. If unemployment in the Province of Bolzano has fallen to 2.9 percent (we have practically full employment) the merit is also of the forms of school-work alternation that favor the encounter between supply and demand. I mean, we have to work on all these fronts. Because, as the President of the Confindustria also mentioned, while in America and China the industrial issue is at the top of the political agenda, it seems to have disappeared from us. On this we await the initiatives that the Government will take. Access to credit must also be improved, and we must negotiate with Europe the exclusion of strategic investments - those in research and training, those for large infrastructure projects - outside the constraints of stability. We await all of this and, in the meantime, we beg in any way the increase in VAT, which would be a very hard blow for the consumption of the middle class and the less well-off. In conclusion, I believe that there is no other way forward, with an attitude towards Europe on which the President of the Confcommercio said well in his annual report: we must not be Europeans and Europeans just because we are forced to compete in the global market, instead, by common sensitivity, by similar cultures, by shared values; the real end of Europe is in being together among different; a practical and daily example of free trade in goods, ideas, people. The government, in the coming years, in the coming months, works for this. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV and FdI)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fazzolari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u15	Mr President, Minister Tria - which I do not see - ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating an abnormal economic and financial document in Parliament. As we know, the DEF normally indicates the state's economic and budgetary strategy for the current year and for the next three years and outlines the guidelines for pursuing economic and employment growth and reducing public debt. Too bad this DEF doesn't contain any of this, because it doesn't present the programming framework. The Silveri Gentilon Government has justified the presentation of this incomplete DEF as an act of institutional opportunity towards the Government that would take its place. Reading the catastrophic data contained in the DEF, however, more than an act of opportunity, comes the suspicion that it was a trick to try to escape their responsibilities. The economic data of the DEF are in fact the merciless picture of the failure of the government action of the last five years. We have heard for years repeating the rhyme "we have passed from the minus sign to the plus sign "," a phrase good for misleading advertising of teleshopping not for a serious analysis of macro-economic data. Indeed, it is well known that a very favourable phase for all European economies began in 2013 thanks to the ECB's expansionary monetary policy, low oil prices and the euro-dollar favourable exchange rate. After the opposite wind of the economic crisis and with the wind finally in the stern, all the European economies began to fly; all except Italy, which continued to retreat. The macroeconomic data speak for themselves: we are the last in Europe for economic growth and, while the average European growth in 2017 was 2.3%, that of Italy was 1.5%. As for the employment disaster, the average European unemployment rate in 2013 was 11% and the Italian unemployment rate slightly above 12%; after five years, the European unemployment rate fell to 7.6 percent, while the Italian unemployment rate fell to only 11%; the scandalous thing is that there are those who sell this figure as a great success. But have the public accounts even improved? Absolutely not. Over the past five years, public debt has exploded and the debt-to-GDP ratio has increased by 8.5% (in absolute terms, 270 billion euros more debt on our children's shoulders). And to do what? Public investment, bridges, roads and schools? Absolutely not. The deficit we did for amenities like the bonus of 500 euros to eighteen, not to modernize the nation. In the last few years of left-wing government, public investment has steadily declined. In five years they have fallen by 8 billion and in 2017 we have reached the historical minimum of 2% of GDP for investment expenditure. These are only the main data of the failure of these years and many others we could cite, from the very high mortality of companies to the collapse of industrial production, to the tragedy of 4 million Italians (8.3% of the population) living in a condition of extreme poverty. A bleak picture, which becomes even alarming by looking at what awaits us for the future because all the economic analyses - partly contained in the DEF - expect for the coming years a worsening of the overall economic picture. We therefore need a radical reversal of course. Unfortunately, in the words of the President-in-Office of the Count Council, it did not seem to us that the Government had clear ideas about what to do. We have heard too shy words; we are concerned about the statements made by those who, like Mr Tria, speak of continuity, because if the recipes proposed so far have not worked in a favourable economic context, they will certainly not work in an unfavorable one. A radical change of course, therefore, is what we of Brothers of Italy propose in the motion for a resolution to the DEF that we present today, an articulated document, which I want to summarize in five essential points. Firstly, to review the European parameters. We call for the immediate challenge of fiscal compact, not to support a cheerful policy of deficit that does not belong to us, but to pass a serious principle of common sense: to remove from the calculation of deficit-GDP the expenditures in investments, public works, safety, prevention of hydrogeological failure and seismic risk. In a particular way to guarantee to South Italy the infrastructural level, logistic and control of the territory necessary to its development. So a 3% limit on the deficit-GDP ratio, instead of the current expected 1.6%, but only for investment expenditure. That is our proposal. We also call for the Government's commitment to make it clear in Europe that, in the absence of a radical change in the economic and monetary policy of the Union, Italy is destined for economic collapse and that in this context it does not exclude supporting the agreed and controlled dissolution of the euro area in Europe and the return to national currencies. A battle that - I hope - the majority forces did not abandon once they became government forces. Second: the decisive defense of Made in Italy. We call for an economic policy based on the defence of Italian labour, industry and agriculture against unfair competition and penalising European directives. Support for industrial and agricultural production recognizable as the Italian brand and the gradual conversion of production exposed to indiscriminate competition. Thirdly, a significant reduction in the tax burden. We call for a commitment to avoid the increase in VAT, once and for all disabling safeguard clauses with structural measures, and for a commitment to the immediate introduction of the 15% flat tax on incremental income compared to the previous year. A measure at zero cost, which can be an important flywheel for the economy. Mr President, if I have finished my time, I can shorten my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator Fazzolari. FAZZOLARI (FdI). Well, thank you. Fourthly, we are calling for an impressive support plan for the family and the birth rate, starting with the adoption of what we have called child income, namely a grant of EUR 400 per month for each dependent child up to six years of age. Fifth: the radical cut in reception costs. The DEF provides a cost of 5 billion euros in reception, despite the data tell us that only 8% of those who land in Italy are entitled to refugee status. We therefore call for the immediate establishment of a naval blockade off the Libyan coast, the only real solution to the invasion... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u16	Please, Senator Fazzolari, finish your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u17	FAZZOLARI (FdI). These are the main proposals of Brothers of Italy to give a future of growth, work and hope to our nation. We put them at the disposal of the Government and challenge it to demonstrate by the facts, and not only in words, that it is that of the change that Italians expect. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u18	Senator Misiani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u19	I remember, as a matter of practice, the bell warns that there is one minute left.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u20	Mr President, in the election campaign the League and the Movimento 5 Stars made commitments of EUR 150 billion; it was a great deception because Di Maio and Salvini knew very well that the money to keep all these promises were not there, there are no and there will be no. The knots, however, one after the other, will come to the comb; even the smart guys sooner or later have to deal with reality and deal with reality today in Italy means to realize that our public debt is falling in relation to GDP, but next year we will have to place 375 billion securities. To deal with reality means to understand that budget spaces are limited and must be used with great care. The increases in VAT and excise duties must be blocked, and we all agree on that. We must know, however, that this choice, which is worth EUR 12 billion and a half for next year, of "tripe for cats" remains very little: we have to choose and we have to do it well. The main way to relaunch development is through investment, Mr President. To relaunch public investment, we made important choices in the last parliamentary term: we abolished the Internal Stability Pact and allocated EUR 82 billion under the 2017 and 2018 budget laws. More can be done, of course, but the first thing to do - I tell the government - is to spend this money quickly by intervening on administrative procedures and apparatus. We must continue to support the investments of companies: enterprise 4.0, ecobonus and earthquake bonuses are strategic choices that must be confirmed and strengthened. There is a second major priority for the country and it is the fight against inequalities. Citizenship income, which was a priority of the government contract, as it was designed costs at least 17 billion euros (some say 30) and risks degenerating into welfare. To the 5 million poor in this country we must offer work and social inclusion, not assistance. We started doing so in the last parliamentary term, creating the income of inclusion: let's start from there, Mr. Deputy Minister. Today there are 3 billion on this instrument; doubling this figure, with 3 billion (and not 17 of the citizenship income) we could help all people in absolute poverty in this country. It takes work to fight inequalities. The minimum wage is a measure we share. We have written it in our program and must be introduced as soon as possible. We will consider very carefully what the Government will do with regard to work. We would like to tell Minister Di Maio to be careful, because performance anxiety risks taking us off the road. I understand that Di Maio must regain visibility towards the real President of the Council, who is called Matteo Salvini: it is legitimate, but haste is a bad councilwoman. We have put forward proposals on limiting the use of time contracts and reducing precariousness. There are others: consider them carefully in order to make the right choices and find the right balance between the need for labour market flexibility and the fight without district to precarious employment. We all have to reduce taxes, Mr President, but we add taxes from those who need them the most. The flat tax for individuals, from this point of view, is a radically wrong choice: it is wrong from a social point of view, because it increases inequalities, but it is also wrong from an economic point of view, because we give 25 billion euros to the richest taxpayers, who are those with the least propensity to consume. The flat tax costs 50 billion euros as you wrote it in your program; with just over a fifth of this amount we could set up the single cheque of 240 euros per month for the dependent children; we could increase to 50,000 euros the threshold of the minimum regime for VAT consignments; we could do more targeted and much more effective operations of reducing the tax burden, knowing that taxes must be charged to those who escape them, because it is a battle of civilization. Unfortunately, you are going in the opposite direction - let me say this, Mr Vice-Minister: you are talking about simplification, but you want to abolish things that we have already abolished, such as the meter, and you want to abolish useful measures against evasion, such as split payment and limits to the use of cash. You speak of fiscal peace, but many of you have in mind the grave pardon. Where, Mr President, are those who shouted "honest," "honesty"? You speak of the Third Republic, but between condons and laxity here we are returning to the worst phase of the First Republic. Finally, pensions: you promised that everyone could retire early. In fact, 100 costs 20 billion and the mountain risks giving birth to the mouse: at sixty-four years old, but with a cut check. Attention, because if you make that choice, the family members of the disabled, the unemployed, those who today with the APe social can retire at sixty-three years, with the full cheque, risk having to retire later and with a pension cut. And that would be an unfair social choice. [[Recalls of the President]] I have really finished, Mr President: the European Central Bank's quantitative easing ends at the end of the year. As Minister Salvini would say, "the parcel is finished": the parcel of a measure that saved 10 billion euros every year of interest on the debt of our country, while now we risk having to pay more even for a spread that is 100 points higher than the pre-election phase. The mother of all battles is the change in the rules of economic and monetary union. We have been there for a long time and we have made our proposals. We want them to be discussed. Beat the punches on the table may earn some attention, but to win this battle you need politics with the capital "P": alliances, intelligent proposals, credibility and negotiating ability. On this you will be measured, not on Facebook posts, which leave the time they find. The time for promises is over, Mr President, and the time for events is coming. In the last parliamentary term on many fronts a good job has been done, which we demand is finally recognized. Let's start from there, avoiding dispersing the results achieved and facing with determination and seriousness, once again, the problems that Italians ask us to solve. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u21	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this very short time I would like to draw attention not to twenty things, but to one thing that has filled the agencies, newspapers and social media: I am referring to the issue of the decommissioning of VAT safeguard clauses. We must leave this day with a clear response from the Government, and of course from this House, with reference to where the EUR 12 billion (and EUR 20 billion for the following year) are to be found, which are necessary for this decommissioning and to what selective interventions are to be made on the reduction of public expenditure. We believe that these selective interventions must be done with particular reference to the purchasing power station, which does not seem to work very well, in the context of reducing expenditure, and, secondly, also looking well at the waste of digital expenditure. We believe that - as I said at the beginning - this is the first answer that must be given to those who listen to us, because entrepreneurs, professionals and holders of VAT consignments want to know if, when they go to issue an invoice soon, they will have to add another load or not, to the detriment of the needs of consumption, of families and, of course, of those who work and of those who work. Having said that, why would I want to have an answer on this fundamental point? Because what we are talking about today, that is the famous issue of GDP (we do not think that the forecasts can be very optimistic), must find an answer from the government and from the political forces not in a number, in a more or less (so we know that we are taillights), but must find the answer that the country asked us: return to that state of well-being that it believes it has lost and that it can no longer find. Without so many roboating announcements, we do the things we need, because people need small certainties, tranquility and serenity, to build their lives every day, to protect their families and to give themselves a perspective. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u23	She is registered to speak Senator L'Abbate. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Economic and Financial Document before us, which has been presented by the resigning Government, does not bring the new programme framework. The measure therefore confines itself to updating the macroeconomic forecasts for Italy and the resulting public finance framework. This means that there is a lot to do and I think it is a great luck, because this is an important and inescapable opportunity to start a path that will lead to the realization of the economic policies that our country urgently needs, starting from some concrete commitments of the Government, like the initiatives to favor the unleashing of the safeguard clauses inherent to the increase of the VAT rates and the excises on gasoline and gas oils. It will work to implement the government contract, to give consistency and concreteness to the hope that has brought millions of citizens to the polls on March 4. Citizens demand bold choices from policy, so that words such as equity, social justice, solidarity, sustainability are at the heart of the political agenda. Here, sustainability, I want to talk to you about this. I will not mention the sensitivity analysis carried out with regard to the various risk factors related to geopolitical, commercial and financial tensions, such as possible developments in protectionist measures, or forecasts of the structural balance. I will not mention the gross domestic product indicator, because in my opinion, in line with the international scientific mainstream, it is a limited indicator, it measures the well-being of the market, not that of the citizens and the ecosystem in which we all live; it does not internalize the depletion of natural resources, environmental impacts, social distress. Therefore, sustainability; and fortunately Italy, as the first country of the European Union and the G7 has introduced the objectives of fair and sustainable well-being (BES) into economic policy. They are instruments that can overcome the limits of GDP and measure well-being and sustainability, not only economic but also environmental and social. Since 2017 through Law 163 of 2016, which reformed the Budget Law, the BES has entered for the first time in the process of defining economic policies, bringing attention to some fundamental dimensions for improving the quality of life of citizens. I would like to draw your attention to the report on the BES indicators attached to the Economic and Financial Document. The picture is rather complex; alongside the progress made for some indicators, which I recall to be a total of 12, there are - alas - trends of unsustainableness. In particular, and as a good ecological economist, I would like to explain to you the development of two BES indicators, one of the domain "Environment" and the other of the domain "Landscape and cultural heritage," which show trends that do not go in the direction of sustainable development. The first, the CO2 and other climate gas emissions indicator, is included in the EU 2020 strategy. It makes it possible to illustrate, directly, the development of environmental quality and the related impact of policies and to measure, including indirectly, the risk-related sustainability of climate change. Per capita CO2 emissions fell significantly between 2005 and 2015, but increased in 2016. Eurostat talks about an increase of 0.1 tonnes and for 2017 ISTAT marked a further increase of 0.2 tonnes. These data were also confirmed a few days ago in the presentation of the ISPRA report on special waste and contradict some who gave Italy on the road to decoupling, i.e. decoupling between the growth model (with an increasing GDP) and CO2 production. This figure, as you understand, is alarming if we consider the objectives to be achieved under the fourth climate-energy framework package, among which, I remind you, there is a reduction of at least 40% of greenhouse gases at European level, compared to 1990. The issue is still highlighted in the national energy strategy (SEN), which aims to increase competitiveness in our country, but using a decarbonisation path (as with commitments made with the Paris agreement). The challenge is therefore arduous. I would remind you, among other things, that we need to reduce atmospheric emissions, including CO2, as required by the newly adopted legislative decree, which transposed the European Directive of 27 December 1984 on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants. The second BES index relates to soil consumption. It is practically the index of building abuse, which shows the degree of exploitation of the soil and the degradation of the landscape. We can say with a good approximation that measures, precisely, the consumption of soil. The result of the index changes according to the territory that is considered, and the data reported in the report indicate that the South and the islands have experienced a significant deterioration from 2005 to 2017: we have gone from 33.2 to 49.9 percent. This is also a great challenge. Luckily, we've changed course. I'll finish. In October, with the presentation of the Budget Act for 2019, the Government will have the task of continuing with the commitments made and with the new policies to be assessed in every area. I ask you to bear in mind one simple thing: everything is connected. A correct and effective environmental policy is linked to everything else: to the fight against social hardship, against debt; it is linked to the technological gap between our fabric of small and medium-sized enterprises and international ones, so it is linked to their competitiveness in the global market. We are a single network; a series of interactions at various levels connect the economic system with the ecological system, with the resilience of the territory, with the communities and their well-being. I am convinced that the Commission will continue to support with conviction this line of innovation, in accordance with our Government contract, which sees Italy at the forefront at international level and which will give space in the future not only to the 12 BES indices, but also to other indicators such as the ecological footprint and the water footprint. Much remains to be done, but we have built the basis on which to continue and expand the effort, to achieve the true improvement of the well-being of our community. We can turn, we have all the time to do so and become a great sustainable and fair country. [[Applause from the M5S and FI-BP groups and Senator Cario]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u25	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u26	Mr President, your presence makes me feel a little anxious! Dear colleagues and members of the Government, I read briefly the DEF that was prepared by the previous Government and it seemed to me, as the colleague of Brothers of Italy said, to live, in those pages, in the country of Bengodi, where everything was fine and where the one on the Mount of Paschi is also considered a manual maneuver. It's not like that. Much more concise, the opinion of the Parliamentary Bureau, which makes assumptions in three pages and gives a general solution saying: if this happens, more or less the document can stand up. In any case, I think that today we have to talk about the motion for a resolution of the majority motion for a resolution (which I have not yet seen), but that the rapporteur's words, I imagine, focus on the fact that we have to find 12.5 billion. We know that, unfortunately, the system of public administration, after the Bassanini laws, has gone in the direction of delegate everything, from politics - out of fear, after Tangentopoli - to senior management, so today lacks the control of politics, if not a priori, a posteriori. We do not know what is happening in the implementation of the 2018 budget law; we will know, reading the newspaper articles. However, what I have said deserves a separate debate on the concept of the discretion of administrative acts; perhaps we will do it again. As I said, we need to find 12 billion for 2019 and 19.2 billion for 2020 in order to sterilize the increase in VAT from 22 to 25% for intermediate jumps and from 10 to 13, which would kill consumption: everyone says so. If it were me - or those who think like me - to decide where to find the 12 billion, I would do this maneuver, knowing that there are also others, because the figure indicated in the DEF, which will presumably be maintained, about investment is ridiculous, not to mention that there is no funding anywhere on the clauses of the contract, that in part the Government, legitimately - finding the money I don't know where - can implement. Having said that, I would remove 3 billion from the allocation for migrants, which is equal to 5 billion per year, because (as Minister Salvini said, exposing a concept on which I absolutely agree) the so-called benefactor cooperatives and societies exploit migrants and there is a waste. Migrants must be less. Let's help them at home, teaching them to fish instead of giving them every day the fish already fried. Then I'd find 3 billion from gold pensions. Someone will have to touch them before or after. In order to avoid the risk of appeals to the Constitutional Court, I believe that we are in a situation in which the military peace code can be applied, which is still and has never been abolished. There are many areas in which savings can be made and the spending review implemented: for example, I believe - and it is not trivial - that even 15-degree air conditioning in this House is an exaggeration, even from an environmental point of view. [[Applause from the FI-BP and M5S groups]] Air conditioning hurts everyone - it's a warning. Then I would go and deal with Europe: I do not have precise data, but I understand that Italy gives Europe EUR 16 billion a year and recovers EUR 11 billion, or rather recovers less, because we cannot co-finance. I would give you less (it's already our money, let's use it to cover the 12.5 billion euros) and then I would quietly pass by a 0.1 or 0.2 deficit, according to the parameters. Every 0.1 billion corresponds to 1.7 billion and Europe will be a little whimpering, but in the end it will say yes. There are many other problems, which I will quote for titles before concluding, which are under our feet. It is the problems of Italy, they are the problems of this House. The electronic invoice between private individuals that is a crime, the fiscal compact that, once or for all, someone will wake up and want to implement, the end of quantitative easing, the derivatives ignited in 2011 and following, the foreseeable increase in interest. These are the problems that this House must discuss, not the sex of angels. We have to finance the Provinces, which are in a disastrous state. We then have the public debt, which is my fixation and I end, President, apologizing for the comparison, with the exact parametris, citing Cato the censor who, from 157 to 149 B.C., closed his interventions at the Roman Senate with the famous phrase: "Ceterum censeo Carthaginem esse delendam! ==References====External links==* Official website I shall conclude, therefore, and conclude all my speeches - always with a partly irreverent comparison, but still with humility - saying: let us attack the public debt, if not the public debt will attack us. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u27	Thank you, Senator Perosino, even for the quote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u28	She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u29	Mr President, the debate on the Economic and Financial Document is the first act of merit of this House, the first act of the Government that took place at the beginning of June, so this is an important, solemn day, also for many new colleagues and colleagues in this legislature and we must not waste it. The Economic and Financial Document is the central instrument, we know, of financial and budgetary economic planning. It is a summary, but it also prepares policies for the following years. The presentation of this DEF, as many colleagues have mentioned, is particular, because it takes place at a time of political transition: it was prepared by the Government Gentiloni Silveri, who presented to the Chambers a program of stability without the programmatic framework because, correctly, this is the task of the new Government. It would then be important to understand from the current majority, President and colleagues, how they intend to continue or change the national framework of reforms, especially in the area of labour and social policies, at least by deciding their policy lines because we know that reforms, an integral part of the Financial Economic Planning Document, strongly affect the growth of a country's gross domestic product and growth. And so this is the right place, Parliament, where citizens and citizens are represented, is taking concrete action and the Economic and Financial Document is a unique opportunity. Consider three examples: employment and wages, active policies and the fight against poverty. In the premise that accompanies the DEF it is rightly emphasized that the activity of the XVIII legislature will be able to share from the good results achieved in the past years, thanks also to the measures promoted by the previous governments that have had the merit to face with determination and courage a dramatic economic and financial crisis, because of that one speaks, that between 2007 and 2013 has caused a fall of the GDP pairs to nine percentage points. The data of the DEF 2018 show a completely different economic situation of the country than that of the beginning of the previous legislature and the improvement of macroeconomic conditions in the country is reflected with positive effects also on the labour market. We have often witnessed, President, in these months and years, in the public debate, a real war on numbers: only in Italy does it happen that we quarrel not about politics, but about numbers! [[Extended applause from the PD Group]] I quote only one: at the end of 2013, 22,121 million were employed, while at the end of 2017 they reached just over 23 million units. The DEF 2018 provides, on the basis of existing legislation, for a further improvement of the labour market until the end of the reference period also thanks to the reduction of social security contributions, provided for in the last budget law, in favour of private employers who, from 1 January 2018, recruit young people up to 35 years with an indefinite employment contract. We may also have to learn a healthy dialectic between majority and opposition, but we all know that we must increase the number of people employed even more, in a world radically changed and crossed by technological upheavals that we define as the fourth industrial revolution and that Europe's horizon is growth, balances in order and employment, three issues to be held together. This must be the battle in Europe. In Italy we must take into account and counter the precariousness of work, the persistence, despite the measures we adopted in the previous Government, of fake VAT matches, the low wages for many girls and boys, the black work, and therefore we must increase active policies, establish a work identity card. Our goal has always been to increase active labour policies. We have done so much, we have set up the National Employment Agency for the first time, we have set aside resources to stabilize the precariousness in employment centres. We agree and will support the government's initiative to go further in supporting employment centres, we agree to continue with this commitment, but we must understand from the majority how it intends to regulate the relationship with the regions, on which they now depend, and with the current constitutional structure, since the two majority forces opposed a reform that provided for the first time the introduction of active labour policies as a constitutional matter. My colleague Misiani has already spoken about combating poverty, there are municipalities that are implementing the measure (there are more than two billion), there are families that are benefiting from it, there are associations that help local authorities and people, but we need to be sure what will happen.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u30	I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u31	Parent (PD). All right, Mr. President. I would therefore ask you to allow me to deliver the text of my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're cleared. Parent (PD). One last question, which I have heard from Senator L'Abbate, is that of the BES. The fair and sustainable welfare indicator was introduced for the first time two years ago and ours is the first country in Europe to have introduced it. This is an important issue, which allows us to reflect on important data that go beyond GDP and we also learn to read this year's DEF: there are some indicators, among the twelve, such as reconciliation of work-family and participation in work, especially of women, which indicate a positive trend. Let's go this way. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u32	Senator Montani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u33	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the DEF, the Economic and Financial Document, is the main programming document for national economic policy, in accordance with the European Stability Pact, as required by EU regulations. The DEF consists of three sections. The first section deals with the Stability Programme, i.e. economic policy objectives to reduce public debt. The second section is entitled 'Analysis and trends in public finance', i.e. the analysis of the profit and loss account and the main forecasts of sources of expenditure, in particular public administration. The third section includes the National Reform Programme and sets out the actions to be taken to achieve the national growth, productivity, employment and sustainability targets outlined in the new European 2020 Strategy, which are, in order: the state of progress of the reforms undertaken, the national macroeconomic imbalances, the country's priorities with the main reforms to be implemented and the effects of the reforms. In detail, the reforms we need to implement are flat tax, the abolition of the reversal of the burden of proof in tax matters, tax peace, industry studies, tax litigation, the containment of tax evasion and tax verification. My speech, ladies and gentlemen, today would like to place small businesses at the centre of our attention, that is to say those activities that have to wait one year for the reduction of the tax burden. They are still heavily burdened by the increased tax burden, since only medium-sized and large enterprises have been rewarded fiscally. From the studies of the CGIA - Associazione Artigiani Piccoli Imprese - of Mestre it is evident, in fact, that if the cut of the tax on the incomes of the capital companies (IRES) allows the societies to save 3,9 billion euros of taxes per year, to the small and micro enterprises, instead, the shift of the introduction of the tax on the income (IRI) does not allow the saving. In particular, there has been a tax advantage for large companies operating in the energy and mining sectors, but the vast majority of micro-enterprises that do not pay IRES have not benefited from any benefit. The Renzi Government, in short, has not found the funds to lighten the tax burden of small enterprises, those formed by natural persons, in collective name, simple societies, etc., although the IRI, introduced in 2017, predicted it. Everything, unfortunately, slipped to 2018. Let us remember that the coverage amounted to 1.2 billion euros, a figure that cannot be reached. Another measure that has damaged small businesses - and I am thinking of our crafts, fisheries and agriculture and so on - is the aid of economic growth, a measure designed to reward capitalised enterprises, a reduction for the contraction of IRES. The negative economic impact of this intervention is EUR 1.7 billion. Therefore, the positive effects of the IRES cut of 3.9 billion must be removed from the reduction of the Aid for Economic Growth (ACE), which allows, however, capital companies to earn 2.2 billion per year. The only positive tax innovation for small companies is the farewell to industry studies, which will be replaced by indicators of economic reliability. The State has no right to enter into the development of the taxpayer's economic activity. Its statement must be considered reliable, unless it proves otherwise by the Revenue Agency in the course of tax verification. One measure included in our programme, which will help taxpayers and small businesses, is fiscal peace, a move that would bring money into the state's coffers which would otherwise be irrecoverable under current procedures. Equitalia has accumulated claims of 1,058 billion euros towards 21 million taxpayers; 138 billion euros are due from failed subjects; 78 billion euros from deceased people and companies ceased and 28 million euros the collection is suspended for forms of self-protection; 314 billion are required from null and void subjects. So, if you want to exclude the non-tenants, there are 650 billion euros left that could be collected, provided that the arrangements are actually viable. We propose for all those who are in situations of economic hardship to be able to close their position with the tax office forever and to be able to return to being active in society. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] These taxpayers will be able to pay, depending on their situation, from a minimum of 6% to a maximum of 25% of their income, at an intermediate rate of 10%. A measure that could bring 60 billion outcasts into the state's coffers in two years and that excludes large taxpayers: it will only be effective for those who, due to the heavy economic recession, have not been able to pay taxes in full or in part up to a maximum of 200,000 euros including sanctions, interest and more. I would also like to make a further step in the area of Industry 4.0, a rule proposed by the European Community, contained in Law No 190 of 2014, which allows companies investing, researching and improving their production system to obtain a tax credit of 50%. This is certainly an important measure, but it has only been cut out on large companies, always at the expense of the smaller ones. This, in my opinion, is a pity, because we know that in our country taxes pay her mainly the average and the small, which represent about 95% of what the Italians pay. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] We must have an eye on small and medium-sized enterprises. I believe that the government should make its own a sentence on taxes that is written in the government program and the League-Salvini Premier: pay everyone to pay less. This today is a slogan written on a program, but I ask the Minister and our Government to make it a government action. Only by helping small and medium-sized farms, only by helping our farmers get up at 5 a.m. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] , only by helping the shopkeepers who every day raise the clèr and do a beastly task, only by helping the entrepreneurs who, in front of the choice between paying the salary to their employees and paying the taxes, have looked at their workers and their state, which is a vexing State, and have preferred to pay their workers with their families, to keep the families going, and this has put them in a great difficulty; well, only then will we help those who really could start this country again. [[Applause from the LS-P and M5S groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Laniece. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u35	Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, the debate on the DEF 2018 leads us to make general considerations, which have already been widely illustrated in the previous speeches, which essentially describe a growing, albeit weak, economic and financial framework. This puts our country in a position to hope, with careful economic policies and, in my opinion, moderate, to accompany growth towards safer levels and thus consolidate our economy. Of course, the document of economy and finance is in force legislation, drafted by a government that is now part of the history of this country and therefore needs an update from the new Executive. I would like to take this opportunity, in my brief speech, to make a second consideration concerning the economic and financial relations between the State and the regions with special status. Our Group has a very precise core business, that of representing this specific part of the territory of the country, home of linguistic minorities, so we need to focus on the problems of our territories. I do this because economic and financial relations constitute a very delicate point, which in recent years has been the cause of strong disputes between the central administration, Ministry of Economy and Finance, and the administrations of our Regions with special statutes, so much to call into question, unfortunately, very often the Constitutional Court to resolve doubts on often opposite positions: I remember, in particular, the period 2011-2012, when the Regions with special statutes, as well as the others, have transposed the regulations aimed at sharing in the recovery of the State. We alpine specialties have contributed in a fair way, but in fact the demands have exceeded abundantly the economic possibilities of my Region, the Valle d'Aosta, so much so that our case has led to the reduction of more than a third (sometimes almost half) of the regional budget within eight years. I therefore believe that there is a need to deal decisively with this aspect, in order to reduce the strong litigations unfortunately still in place between the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Regions with special status. As we come to the conclusion, we ask the new Executive that these new economic and financial relations be taken into account in the construction of the next budget law between the Special Statute Regions and the State. I must honestly say that with the governments of the last legislature a path has been started that has brought important results from the point of view of the recovery of resources; however, as I said before, there are still difficult and contentious relations that I hope this Government will face. I am also saying this because, while it is true that the issue of the economic coverage of the majority programme points will be the most challenging and delicate part of the next budget law, I would not want this time too the special autonomy to represent a good, secure credit card, to identify a good part of the financial resources. Special statutes are rules of constitutional rank, not privileges; we have always behaved loyally and therefore demand and demand respect. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and FI-BP]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u36	She is registered to speak Senator Tiraboschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we are living in a historic moment of great discontinuity which requires a vision from those who have to make strategic proposals. Twenty-five years ago the world was very different from the current one: globalization had just begun and the Internet was also in its early days, the European Union was very different from today, China was still a poor country, as the world's population in general was poorer. Looking at the present, digitalization is producing a total change in society, enhancing communications, exchanges and ways of promotion. In some respects the time we are living is similar to the Renaissance, when changes and innovations that arose from a profound crisis were precursors of modernity. As then Italy was the engine of change, even today our country could again assume, in some sectors, a leading role not only for Europe, but for the world. For several days we have been hearing about the issues of immigration, on which Minister Salvini has certainly taken a firm position that has made the voice of Italy heard loudly, however the problems of our country are many others, as the President of the Council explained to us in his speech of 5 June. We take note of the establishment of the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion and the Mezzogiorno, but we are very concerned, on the one hand, with the absence of a programme to exploit all the unexpressed potential of the South, as well as the division of tourist skills from the MiBACT and, on the other hand, with no word on the cultural and creative character of the Italian craft industry, whose relevance cannot be underestimated (we speak of a world market worth 1200 billion euros with a very important growth rate of 5 percent annually), as well as no reflection on an outdated educational system that depresses rather than encouraging cultural growth, understood not only as the knowledge of Dante and Michelangelo, but in a broader sense, as a culture of food, wine, good living, environmental and architectural sites, of which other countries (I quote neighbor France) are proud ambassadors in the world. The Italians are no longer aware of their historical and cultural exceptionality, of that heritage without equals in the world, whose competitive advantage, which we could call "endogene to our country" goes under the brand of Made in Italy, of which I have heard so much. And I add that it is the third most famous brand in the world after Coca-Cola and Visa. A brand that represents a real intangible infrastructure able, both to project abroad the six million Italian small and medium-sized industries, which contribute to national GDP for at least 90% and whose concentration is not negligible to the South of our country, and to make Italy attractive for international tourist flows. It is from these considerations that moves the need to think immediately of a strategy for Made in Italy, which we could define holistic and which, without claiming political belongings, aims to strengthen Italy, as the seventh industrial power at world level. The Italian model, however, goes all reengineered, adapting it to the complexities of contemporary relationships. It cannot be thought that there is no strong political coordination and that all actors, differently involved, operate without any centralized direction, in an institutional framework often politically unstable and very fragmented, benefiting from public resources very often not well employed for the purpose of proper promotion at world level, as happens in other countries and causing Italy to lose competitiveness. We therefore ask the Government to commit itself on three fronts: firstly, by reorganizing functions and competences that are too fragmented, not only to achieve a selective reduction in public expenditure, but also to eliminate waste nested in rules and organizations that duplicate activities, often useless and ineffective. Secondly, by defining a national plan for the valorization of Made in Italy that puts up all the cultural, creative, tourist, food and wine offer and, more generally, what I define the industry of Italian excellence, aware that the admirers of our country, those who love the "beautiful, the good, the well done and the quality of life" are people who have a very high spending potential and contribute to supporting the industry of excellence that at world level is worth 1.2 trillion euros and that can count on 400 million consumers. Finally, by establishing the Ministry of Made in Italy that, thanks to digital technologies, can place Italy on a mega platform that will help companies that have made it great to have the right recognition when abroad, alone, they promote Made in Italy, the only true driver of a growth that has continued to slow down over the last 25 years and that could, instead, help improve not only the trade balance, but also GDP, employment and tax revenues. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lannotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u39	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, before dealing with the macroeconomic framework of the DEF, its trend forecasts for the three-year period 2019-21, estimated GDP growth of 1.5 in 2018 and other data, often overestimated, I think it is useful to provide the indications of the current economic data, inherited from the last four governments since 2011. As for industrial production - these are all official data - the Italian industry slows down in April: the production marks a decrease of 1.2 compared to March, with the index going back to the levels of February 2008. Demography and denatality: the decrease of the resident population already found in the previous two years continues in 2017. At 31 December, 60,483 million people reside in Italy, more than five million of whom are foreign nationals (8.5% of residents). In 2017 the population decreased by 105,472 units compared to the previous year, and there are other data: deaths were almost 650,000 (34,000 more than in 2016); inequality grew and showed a growing trend following the financial and economic crisis and, after an improvement and an increase in 2015, followed by substantial stabilisation, the absolute poverty index has deteriorated since the beginning of 2017, with the only reversal of trend in 2014. Poverty and economic conditions of families: the poor increase. These are the figures: families in absolute poverty are 1.8 million, with an incidence of 6.9%. The tip of the iceberg: according to the Coldiretti report on food poverty and waste, 2.7 million citizens do not eat, they cannot eat. As for condones and evasion, 131 are the billions of euros collected in forty-five years. Tax evasion amounts to 110 billion. With regard to the profits of the banks, these were subsidised with twenty billion euros (about 12 of state guarantees to Banca Intesa and five cash for the gift of the Venetian banks): with the help of Bankitalia 50,000 families reset in their savings, they achieved 14 billion euros of profits in 2017, at the expense of the State and the expropriates. According to FABI (Italian Autonomous Banking Federation), a bank union, this year the first ten banks will earn worth ten billion. Labour market: the first quarter of 2018 - and these are always official data - is characterized by a stationary employment rate; the employment rate remains broadly unchanged, increasing to 58.2%. Public debt: we are pleased that Bankitalia has finally discovered the public debt to be reduced, after the pre-election pre-election games of February 2018 and the corrections obliged by Eurostat on 15 April 2018 on the statistical treatment of the administrative forced liquidation of Banca People's Bank of Vicenza and Veneto Bank. The debt, amounting to 1,912 billion in November 2011, increased with the Monti Government by 122 billion: 2,041 billion in April 2013; with Letta it rose by 66 billion, reaching 2,107 billion in February 2014; in April 2018 the boulder on the future of young people rose by another 9 billion, reaching 2,311,7 billion from 2,302 billion in March. According to the promises of Minister Padoan, that debt should have decreased, but it did not: it has increased by 204 billion since February 2014 (132.6 million euros per day, 4.6 billion euros per month, 95,000 euros per family, 38,000 on the shoulders of each inhabitant). Since November 2012, Senator Monti's settlement date, debt has increased by 400 billion euros. And should we accept lessons on the European parameters to be respected and the lack of funds for income of dignity, the only possibility in a market economy that falsifies jobs with robotics, technological innovation, computer science, artificial intelligence, to feed consumption-based production cycles? [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] With regard to inflation and VAT, the tax on the poor, we must do without all the costs of those clauses. I would like to point out that VAT is completely on the final consumer, while entrepreneurs, self-employed workers and traders remain neutral. I remember that VAT represents a cost only for those who do not have buyers and that the increase of 3 points of tax from 20 to 23 percent from 1 January 2014, staggered in three phases (from 20 to 21 percent from 17 September 2011; from 21 to 22 percent from 1 October 2013; from 22 to 23 percent from 1 January 2014 in the so-called Italy rescue decree of December 2011), has reduced consumption and reduced tax revenues. The increase in VAT of one point from 20 to 21%, in force since 17 September 2011 with the Berlusconi Government, caused a loss of VAT revenue of €704.754 million in 2011. We must do the opposite, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of the former Minister Padoan, whom he declared to the Wall Street Journal on 29 April 2013, about the sacrifices imposed on the European people by the austerity policies that pain finally pays and that the perception that austerity is useless is wrong. A chilling cynicism. Ladies and gentlemen, we must get out of the liberal and monetarist policies imposed by the International Monetary Fund and the blind austerity of the Troika, which have destroyed the social fabric of the country, impoverished large masses of citizens and even the middle class. With head and heart, thinking of young people, men and women, work, small and medium-sized enterprises crushed by the great crisis that began in the US in 2008, with the sub-prime bubble. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is necessary to start again from these data for a reversal of tendency compared to governments merely performing a neoliberal totalitarian doctrine, which instead of men and the dignity of work, has put first the hegemony of the market, the globalism of poverty, the privatization of wealth, the interests of bankers, multinationals, criminal finance, on the law of peoples and the Constitutions, trying to replace the States with the Treaties, Justice with the arbitrations, trampling and humiliating with the jobs act the rights and the conquests of the workers, human dignity. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u40	Senator D'Arienzo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I would like to point out first of all a curiosity about the game, which Mr Lannotti repeated, of denouncing and alarming the country about a series of data, without realizing that it is in the government and, if you want to start quickly, starting with the modification of the DEF already from this year. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It would be good for you to notice that you are in the government and you cannot just confine yourself to representing, alarming and terrifying the country with a series of data, probably even true. Sooner or later we'll see, when you start working, how we'll have fun! I am therefore interested in reasoning on infrastructure, in the light of what the governments that preceded the present have done for our country and also as a reminder to that minister of costs and benefits, Minister Toninelli, for what he must do rather than what he is announcing these days. We have left an impressive heritage. I believe that never since the Second World War has Italy known such a volume in such a short time of resources for our country's infrastructure: I am talking about 132.9 billion euros with resources available for about 98. Never since the Second World War has the country experienced investments of this nature, because the priority of the governments Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri have always been infrastructure and through these, of course, the creation of jobs. We have not carried out a random action for infrastructure: we have planned them and we have wanted them. We have also beaten fists in other realities, such as Europe, in order to obtain funding. We have started programming reform processes based on clear objectives and identified a strategic vision for infrastructure by 2030. To all the actors involved, inside and outside our country, we have guaranteed the will to make them - which is of no small importance - clear and certain rules, certain times and adequate resources. From this point of view, allow me to say that the will of Minister Toninelli - which I have redefined Minister of costs and benefits - to re-evaluate the infrastructure in order to cut them - not to add them, but to cut them - I think it is a disaster for our country. Instead of allowing Italy to compete in globalisation, first and then worldwide, it risks condemning us to a secondary role. If that Minister continues to repeat that some works need to be revised - and I am talking about fundamental works such as Turin-Lyon or Brescia-Verona that I am particularly interested in - then you must also say how else you intend to make our country competitive, otherwise they are empty declarations. How else do you want to establish the connections of transport services and logistics to make Italy the Mediterranean port to Europe? It is too easy to say that the works are to be reviewed all, but there is no subsequent proposal, except, in fact, the cancellation. Connecting Italy is the project that we have left you and that you will find with imposing resources: you just need to develop its potential. We have also left you the instrument to do so: the procurement code. This is the framework for planning and programming. And let me say: when I feel that you want to reduce the procurement code and the powers of ANAC, I have some concern. It is a triple attack, from my point of view, on the infrastructure front, i.e. the reduction of works, the cancellation of opportunities and the reduction of control. I shall conclude, Mr President, with a consideration of the role that we will have. We will not be watching, but we will participate responsibly in this process. On the future of Italy and therefore on the need to increase its competitiveness we will be there. We will not make discounts, because Italy must know if your actions will make it grow or will make it go back. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u42	I thank Senator D'Arienzo for being perfect in time.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u43	Senator Siclari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u44	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution tabled by my Parliamentary Group, Forza Italia-Berlusconi President, calls for a policy line aimed at growth through an overall vision of the country system and aims to reduce public debt through policies aimed at the growth of the country and, therefore, at increasing GDP. Therefore, our attention goes in particular to companies, workers, families, the South of the country and the non-occupied. As far as companies are concerned, we want to cut down the bureaucracy that produces about 60 billion costs for inefficiency and represents cancer for the productive and entrepreneurial fabric; it extends the start-up time of a company by exposing it to the economic crisis and drives foreign entrepreneurs away. It is essential to remember that corruption is nested in the bureaucracy and that corruption is made room. We need to reduce taxes and it is vital to introduce flat tax - for Forza Italia is the central point of the programme of the center-right most voted by Italian citizens - and to reduce the tax wedge for companies that hire indefinitely. It is necessary to block the increase in VAT in order not to burden the economy of households and businesses. It is necessary to attract foreign investments and to encourage national ones, favouring those conditions that allow to create productive centers in the depressed areas of the Country, first of all to the South, especially as regards the tourist sector, through decarbonization, deburocratization and incentives to the enterprises. Gentlemen, Germany has become the productive engine of Europe precisely because it has managed to hook up the former East Germany to the train of development, and not because it has abandoned it to its fate of backwardness and degradation. There is no other recipe for Italy: either the South grows or the whole country declines. Unfortunately, in the document of economy and finance, we note the fact that the South of our country is further and again sacrificed and mortified. It is noted that there is no overall strategy for relaunching Southern Italy, in particular Calabria. With regard to the referendum that was proposed yesterday on the TAV, let me say that, if it is necessary to make the referendum for the great works in Italy, that it is done on the same day, from North to South, for the great works of the North, the Centre and the South otherwise; it risks becoming a territorial and social discrimination. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Giving priority to the South means giving priority to the entire country, and we aim at the country, not at the individual territory. In the South we want what the other parts of the country have: high speed, airport development, commercial ports, marinas. We do not ask for miracles, but we ask for respect for Article 3 of the Constitution, which provides for equality of citizens and which is also not protected in this DEF. This is demonstrated by current expenditure and per capita investment expenditure, which is lower than the national average in the South. Then, with regard to the health and sustainability of the Health Service, I note that it looks like a taboo: there is nothing that refers to the need to ensure the sustainability of the National Health Service, which risks the collapse. To date, in the DEF, health service expenditure is expected to be 6.5% of GDP, which, according to the World Health Organisation, corresponds to the critical threshold beyond which there is a risk of collapse. It would be enough to digitise health - as a proposal we have presented as a Parliamentary Group of Forza Italia - to save about 20 billion of the waste recognised and certified by the Court of Auditors. I conclude by saying that families are abandoned by the State: this is demonstrated by the drastic decline in birth rates. There are more citizens who die than children who are born. We need a policy for birth, for families and welfare. Families can't support their children. They spend 15 billion euros on children's education: studying has become a real luxury. Think that Italy is in the penultimate place in Europe in 2017, in front of only Romania, for number of graduates on the population of working age. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the income of citizenship is concerned, we do not share it as it is structured. We at Forza Italia want to put at the center of the attention of our political activity not only the productivity of our country and therefore the employment, to give dignity to our citizens, but above all the families, encouraging those who carry out an irreplaceable social function: mothers. To them we want not only to recognize the pension of mothers and housewives - as we have foreseen in our electoral campaign programme - but above all we believe that an income should be recognised for all unemployed mothers and a wage integration for all employed mothers, until the sixth year of their child's life. In this way we will have more serene families, more children educated by their mothers and more dignity as a country. We have a duty to think big. One American preacher and theologian said that a politician looks at the next election, while a statesman looks at the next generation; a politician thinks about the success of his party, while a statesman thinks about that of his country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u45	Senator Stancanelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u46	Mr President, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the law of 4 August 2016 provided for in Article 10 that, in the annex to the Economic and Financial Document, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance should be required to report both to the performance of the indicators of fair and sustainable well-being in the previous three years and to predict the evolution of the indicators of fair and sustainable well-being in the following three years. And I have to say that the DEF 2018, for the first time, contains a great novelty: there are the 12 indicators of fair and sustainable well-being, selected by the appropriate Commission to photograph, in a wider way than traditional economic indicators, the well-being of citizens. The data show the evolution in the last thirteen years, from 2005 (beginning of the historical series) to today, of the selected indicators, each of which refers to a different aspect of the life of the Italians. From that report it is clear that, in the Italian economic scenario, aggravated by the consequences of the financial crisis, the question of a country anchored at two different speeds of development continues to be raised, the most direct evidence of which concerns both the tightening of the gaps between the northern and southern regions, and the inequalities within the same areas of the Mezzogiorno. The southern regions have suffered with much more force the signs of the economic crisis. This is highlighted by both youth unemployment and income and poverty figures. The distance between the Centre-North and the South is not limited to GDP per capita, but to many other indicators, such as the continuous migration of youth forces to other regions and abroad; the high number of young people leaving school; the irrelevant ability to attract investment from abroad; the even greater weight, compared to the rest of the country, of bureaucracy, institutional inefficiency, corruption, of judicial slowness and of the submerged economy. I will not go too far in analysing the 12 indicators, but I want to point out three. The second is economic inequality: a factor that has come to the fore in the academic debate in recent years, to measure the ratio between the total equivalent income received by 20% of the population with the highest income and that received by 20% of the population with the lowest income. Data indicate a slow but continuous growth of economic inequality over the past ten years. However, if you look at the broken down data, you see an even more serious aspect. While in the North of the country this relationship remains practically still and the Centre grows little, it is in the South that there is the greatest increase in inequality, so as to drag the increase of the data reported to the Country as a whole: a strong geographical split that returns also in other data. The seventh indicator, for example, refers to the labour market. This is a kind of increased unemployment rate, which also takes into account those citizens who, though not actively seeking employment, would be willing to work. The historical series begins in 2005 with a figure of 15.3 percent; due to the crisis, it grows and peaks in 2014 (22.9 percent) and finally begins to decrease in the last years (17.3 in 2017). Once again, however, the difference between the situation in the North and the situation in the South of the country is dramatic: in the North the percentage is just over 10%, while in the Mezzogiorno it is around 35%, over the triple. I think that a Group like the Brothers of Italy, which is not part of the majority and has not given confidence to the Government, but has the duty to participate in order to ensure that this Government works for the community, can afford to give - as we did with our resolution - some indications and advice, which I hope will be taken into account and can then be transformed, beyond the DEF, into proposals and draft laws. It is suggested that support and incentive mechanisms should be put in place and implemented in a timely manner, including through the use of tax facilitation arrangements; initiatives should be taken to effectively combat the very serious problem of school leaving; rapid identification of which municipalities, among those who have requested them, are required to establish urban free zones within themselves, with a view to strengthening entrepreneurial and employment growth; the development of a monitoring plan for the resources allocated to the State and the European Union against unemployment and other development programmes in favour of the regions of the convergence objective; the identification of policies for the conservation and exploitation of the natural resources of the regions, with a view to relaunching tourism, production and trade in typical products; the activation of building substitution procedures, in collaboration with private actors, aimed at eliminating buildings resulting from abuse; the rapid identification of infrastructure interventions of primary importance; and the safety of buildings in the territories, particularly in the case of school areas, of urban rehabilitation through restoration works of historic buildings for the completion of the programme already undertaken in the fields of health, university and prison. I believe that the suggestion, which you will find in the resolution of Brothers of Italy, can be a useful tool for the Government - and I address in a particular way the Movimento 5 Stars, which in the South and in particular in my Sicily, had a huge mass of votes (28 single-name colleges out of 28 Sicilians) and, therefore, received the confidence of the citizens - which takes into account our indications. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u47	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the document before us is limited to the description of international economic and financial developments, the macroeconomic forecasts for Italy and the resulting public finance framework. They are just elements which, pending the Budgetary Act Update Note, provide the basis for us to assess the concrete possibility of implementing the programmes and reforms that the current Commission has announced it wants to adopt. In addition to these elements, however, we must also take into account the recent decisions taken by the Governing Council of the ECB, which, while declaring the end of the monetary emergency policy, are certainly of concern and fear because they envisage the possible start of a phase of monetary restriction. The timetable has been decided: the European Central Bank will buy the bonds in half until the end of the year. The bold and irresponsible statements that assumed, before the formation of the current Government, that a possible exit from the euro of Italy was not limited to being empty instrument of polarization of consent, but had negative repercussions on the markets, increasing the burden on the debt; because, yes, in the financial markets also the words have a weight, which affects the state and, unfortunately, the citizens. If it is true, then, that there has been a general trend towards growth in the Eurozone, today the trend is still lower than the trend of recent years, especially in Italy, where growth has been at a lower level. The umbrella of exceptional monetary policies, which lowered debt burdens from 82 billion in 2012 to 64 billion in 2017, is inexorably closing. Debt charges will now rise by a few billion. Therefore, we need policies that reassure investors so that the burden on our debt does not negate the policies that the Government will carry out in order to promote growth. With this in mind, the questions arise spontaneously: we wonder how it will be possible to implement all those promises set out in the Government contract, since they do not currently have the necessary financial coverage. We wonder how it will be possible to sterilize safeguard clauses in order to avoid the increase in VAT and at the same time eliminate excise duties on petrol; introduce income and citizenship pensions; strengthen employment centres; reform pensions; strengthen family policies and hire extraordinary new units for prison police and law enforcement forces. We are very concerned about the new challenges that Italy will face. If you do not define the government program better, not by dispersing the resources available, it will be impossible to promote that real revival of the economy that the country absolutely needs. Some reforms, such as flat tax on income from work, or rather the two rates, are undoubtedly acceptable, but it already seems that they cannot be applied fully to families and will be postponed by at least one year. Yet, the government will have to explain to us how it intends to combine it with the income of citizenship, a measure of opposite sign, welfare. We are convinced that a welfare policy is a brake on the recovery of the economy and indeed an impoverishment, especially for the South. Yes, the South: it is time to fill those delays in transport and infrastructure that weaken the economic fabric of an important area of the country. Well, the growth of the Mezzogiorno must be a priority objective of economic policy, not just for reasons of fairness. In the contract Lega-Movement 5 Stars is said that, with reference to the Regions of the South, it has been decided, contrary to the past, not to identify specific measures with the mark Mezzogiorno. It would be nice if that were the case. Perhaps we have forgotten that there are still cohesion policies through which we can and must draw on European funds for areas that are still economically behind us. Perhaps, and above all, we have forgotten that the principle of equality must be declined not only in the formal sense, but also and above all in substance. We need to make sure that the funds are intended for investment and not for new current account creation policies which, unfortunately, in the past, have defined only self-sustaining expenditure. I conclude: our South must become an authentic logistics platform for the Mediterranean; an area that is also highly attractive for the company and for trade as well as for tourism, also characterized by a productive management of artistic beauties. This will only be possible if the Government does not disperse resources and focus them on long-term and productive investments, capable of linking the whole country at least to European growth levels. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u49	Senator Valente is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Economic and Financial Document could finally have been a good opportunity for this House, and especially for this majority, to come out of the slogans and propaganda tones to which we have been forced to attend for more than 100 days, while waiting to settle, on the other hand, solely and exclusively, appointments and government arrangements. It was a question of building a discussion of direction and therefore of intent, or at least of good intentions; an act that allowed, even in the photograph of the existing, responsibly and correctly developed by the outgoing Government, to draw a road map of objectives, clear and precise this time, the first moment, therefore, in which to transform promises and electoral propaganda finally into a figure of government. And instead we are faced with the umpteenth opportunity wasted, yet another page substantially empty; too many gaps, many shortcomings and among them certainly once again the Mezzogiorno; a Mezzogiorno to which your responsibility is enormous (at least as much as your contradictions) but also double, because played in the face of a recovery that, although still shy, finally began, albeit with difficulty, to reverse a tendency; to recover a gap that in recent years, the years of the crisis, had imposed on this area of the country the highest price, and not so much in terms of GDP but above all in terms of inequalities and denied opportunities. Here, we of the PD say it clearly: we remain convinced that, in front of this picture, the way to follow is to continue to work to bring out the many potentialities of this part of the country. Take good care, though: a logic of solidarity is not enough, but it is important, and even less so in terms of welfare or subsidies. That we met - alas - when we were subjects, not citizens. We seek and are convinced that the logic in which to work is to increase competitiveness and with it the strength of the entire country system. Only a country able to reduce and shorten the distance between North and South will be able to play its cards fully in a European and international framework full of opportunities even before risk or pitfalls. It will be able to do so by watching with strength and confidence how good and again it can come from Europe, of course, but also from the South of the world in terms of opportunities and possibilities. For this reason it is essential that Italy should return to being one in terms of social, economic and institutional hold, but also and above all of vision, net of contrasts that may perhaps be a good way out to cover distances and contradictions and divide seats and armchairs, but that clearly do not trace a vision that is held, leaving too many voids, ambiguity and not said. The South today needs investment in support of the modernization of our productive apparatus, of our public administration and of material and intangible infrastructures, enhancing our excellence, beauties, skills, knowledge, research and culture, even with courage, in support of our entrepreneurs, of those who insist on trying and not giving up. The South needs for our young people, for the many women who reach high levels of education, but are still tight by an inadequate and inadequate welfare, of work and development, of opportunities and dignity, and not of subsidies to stay at home, not of assistance because they are incapable of doing it on their own; therefore infrastructure, services, efficient public administration, networking networks, adequate and inclusive welfare, measures - be it clear - differentiated even if only in their intensity, odd measures to guarantee equal opportunities. In this logic, the PD has moved in recent years; in this direction the important things started: ZES, Rest to the South, decontributions, Bank of the lands, tax credit, overcoming the criterion of historical expenditure for the definition of standard needs, measures to combat poverty and finally the clause of 34% of capital investments. These measures have allowed us to start a path that has finally been able to reverse a trend that seemed unstoppable, but the wounds and inequalities are still many and there is still a lot to be done. For this reason, if we could look - I say it with sincerity - even with some timid appreciation to the words of Minister Lezzi, who explicitly expressed the will to continue and strengthen the measures undertaken by the PD-led governments, then we are concerned about his statements on measures to be initiated ex novo, which we seem frankly improvised, starting from the story of the contributory reductions. As well as we are concerned by the statements made by Ministers of its majority, both on the vision of the Mezzogiorno and the necessary measures, and on the measures to be taken, for example, following the request for greater fiscal autonomy of the regions of the North, without serious and rigorous reflection on the point. And then I turn to the Movimento 5 Stars, which in this campaign speculated on the need that came from the most difficult areas of the country, doing in this part of the territory incetta of votes. Now choose to give this consent to forces that have always worked against the South and against the Mezzogiorno, anti-southern forces that have speculated substantially on fear. But out of this clash of consensus and power, which concerns you and only you, it is the citizens who risk more. Upon them will fall your commercial interventions, upon them your inability to rule. Here, now it is up to you, fellow senators also of the majority, to you who have the levers of government and power, really tell where you want to start. I certainly do not say us, but the Italians, from your first acts, from what has been presented in this debate today, from what has been said in this House, have not understood this. We will be here, in this House and in our communities, in our territories, not only to remove your contradictions and your timidities, but also to challenge you in the interest of that part of the country that cannot pay your agreement which, for now, is and remains a power agreement and certainly not a good government agreement. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u51	Senator Battistoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u52	Illustrated President, authoritative members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that we are facing this year a document of economy and finance which confines itself to a description of economic and financial developments and the updating of macroeconomic forecasts for our country, not adding any elements related to programming. It should be noted, therefore, that this transitional DEF between the former central-left government and the current yellow-green government is therefore a document which takes no decision of a programmatic nature, not even in the field of agriculture which - I would like to remind you - represents an important sector for a large part of our territory and, like other productive sectors, faces new and important challenges. Agriculture, however, is not only planning; it is an activity subject to unforeseen, natural disasters, which all too often, unfortunately, bring to their knees the farmers who find themselves deprived of support and support from the central and local administration, as happened a month ago in Piedmont, Lombardy, Campania, recently in Calabria or, last week, in the Lazio coast, where, following a strong hailing, many farmers have seen the destruction of 100 percent of their production, with the impossibility not only of earning for this season, but also of returning to the costs so far incurred. It would perhaps be appropriate to provide for a fund that could provide refreshment to those who are victims of these disastrous climate changes. The Economic and Financial Document lacks the design that, if it had been included, would have clashed with the recent Community programming. The consequences of Brexit - as is well known - will be borne by agricultural and cohesion policies, which see a reduction of around 5% in appropriations. In essence, the 5% cut in Community funds for agriculture will make it even more difficult to meet the needs of the territories, to which must be added, moreover, the need to revise the all-Italian criterion - this yes - with which the so-called disadvantaged areas and those, so to speak, benefited. The new Executive has decided not to include a programming, relying on the transposition of its contract into majority resolution. In the face of the reduction of resources, without our Government's incisive action at European level, it will be difficult to respect those priorities previously defined in the Community. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u53	Senator, I'm sorry, but the buzz is increasing beyond the level of guard.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u54	BACTISTONI (FI-BP). If anyone in the government listened, it wouldn't be bad either. We must therefore trust in the will expressed at various levels by the Count Government and by the Hundred Minister himself to negotiate with Europe also the Commission's decisions and we hope that, beyond the statements made yesterday in Luxembourg by the Minister, there will already be results in the short term. The work of Italian agricultural production is synonymous with quality, thanks to a control and certification of the entire food chain and, therefore, Europe itself should fight the commercial dumping of foreign products that arrive in our markets, whose origin is not ascertainable, through a greater support of the CAP to our products and producers. If, therefore, it is to be welcomed the need to integrate measures to support agriculture, especially rural development, with interventions specifically aimed at achieving objectives of general interest, such as the protection of the landscape, the defence of hydrogeological structures and food security, we expect concrete measures to defend the food peculiarity of Italy; to protect the excellence of Made in Italy, but also to reform the agencies, first of all the National Agency for Agricultural Distributions (AGEA) and the unified information system of services of the agricultural sector (SIAN). We look forward to seeing how the following points will be proposed and implemented in practice: enhancing the profitability and competitiveness of the sector; promoting innovative technologies for farms and sustainable forest management; preserving, restoring and enhancing agricultural ecosystems; promoting social inclusion, poverty reduction and economic development in rural areas; promoting the organisation of the food supply chain and risk management in the agricultural sector. (At 13.29 a.m.) (Battistoni followed). Even if all this is postponed to autumn planning, which will be included in the Update Note to the DEF and then in the Budget Act, we trust that agriculture, energy and environmental issues, those of tourism, which are now closely connected with the agricultural economy, can be valued through favorable policies. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] . Many congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Vono is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the document we are debating today requires a very careful analysis because the government has the honour and the burden of drawing up the new policy framework and implementing it by introducing economic and social growth measures for our country. The policies that we have seen so far have particularly penalised Italian companies already in difficulty, under the false promises of investments, applying a bureaucratic system that has often made it difficult to adhere to the planned facilities, even frustrating the effects of quantitative easing, of which we have benefited widely so far, even though we have not raised our economy. This has accentuated the gap between North and South of the country, so much so that public expenditure for the South, considered in relation to the ordinary state budget and thus excluding the European Structural Funds and the Development and Cohesion Fund, is still far from the threshold that would allow it to spread. It is beyond doubt that past governments, mainly dealing with measures of fiscal repression, have lost sight of the person, introducing anachronistic and vexatory instruments, which do not take into account the real possibilities of the taxpayer; instruments and measures that do not consider the peculiarities not only of the various enterprises, but also of the territories in which they arise and operate. Therefore, as several episodes related to desperate actions of entrepreneurs from every part of Italy have shown, it is in the eyes of all that the policies initiated, carried out by previous governments, have not benefited anyone. Nor did it bring particular benefit to the measure of a few years ago which suddenly imposed on the whole trade sector a regime of total deregulation of the hours of commercial activities, with opening for twenty-four hours a day, every day of the year, Sundays and holidays included. The rule has not only caused serious damage to free competition, but has also not had a real effect on the recovery of consumption. Therefore, for the future of trade it is necessary to choose a model not only more economically efficient, but above all more sustainable from the human point of view. In our government contract, precisely to compensate for the harassment imposed by politics with the governments appointed in the name of austerity and rigour, we introduce the concept of fiscal peace, which is the most transparent way of restoring tax and social justice, giving the possibility to companies in every sector, professionals, to all citizens who have accumulated debts because of an unjust tax system, to pay what is due according to a recalculation aimed at rebalancing the relationship between tax and taxpayer. But not just that. We will also review the principles governing financial activity, giving effect to the conflicting advance with the taxpayer, as the general cornerstone of the tax system; to the abolition of the reversal of the burden of proof to be borne by the administration and the financial institution; to the reduction of the time taken to ascertain in the cases of active and constant collaboration of the taxpayer; to a more streamlined tax system and to the general principle of direct responsibility of the financial administration. This government has among the premises of its contract also the sterilization of VAT and excise clauses, including the anachronistic components of excise duties on petrol: promises, years of promises and never eliminated. On this we have committed ourselves with the Italians to guarantee the total decommissioning of the clauses to which we are subject thanks to the short-sighted and authoritarian policies adopted so far. Our Government will implement all those fiscal measures oriented towards a homogeneous economic development for the country; all this without losing sight of the different territorial needs, with the priority objective of filling the gap between North and South. As stated in the ISTAT annual report, in fact, as soon as it has been released, we are witnessing a backward course in the Mezzogiorno, especially from the point of view of social equity, and it is a figure on which, as a senator representing the whole nation, but above all as a southern woman, I would like to dwell. Well, starting from the analysis carried out in the annex to the DEF on the BES analysis, i.e. fair welfare indicators, it is noted that the per capita income considered in real terms, i.e. adjusted by inflation, falls by ten percentage points in 2017 compared to ten years ago. Meanwhile, the inequality index for disposable income increased in 2015 and the absolute poverty index even deteriorated from the beginning of the crisis to 2017. This, ladies and gentlemen, I do not say this, but it is the worrying summary of the three main indicators of economic well-being presented by the Government Gentiloni Silveri. In this context, by crossing these data with those provided by Istat, the South has the worst part. In particular, in 2017 absolute poverty reached a significant rate of 8.3 percent, with an increase of almost half a point in the last year and generally higher levels in the Mezzogiorno, where it reaches almost 10% of the population. If we add to the context described also the gap between the population of North and South Italy with regard to life expectancy in good health at birth, we realize that we are faced with a very complex situation, not only from the point of view of equality, but above all the economic and social holding of the country. It is not a mystery that the Central-South Regions still have the highest rate of health mobility to other regions and the worst rate of satisfaction compared to the services received. This phenomenon affects the whole country and for this reason in the government contract we anticipate incisive interventions on the health management, chosen according to the competence and the merit and no longer based on political or party logics [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , in order to put an end once and for all to the immoral and unhealthy relationship between politics and health. We also anticipate new and different criteria for the appointment of directors-general, health and administrative directors, managers of complex structures and those same managers will be evaluated in terms of achieving health and budgetary objectives in the management of companies. These are precise performance objectives that, reducing the margin of discretion to a minimum, no longer allow to reward those who, by practicing the most bieco servility to politics, have aimed only at their career progress, to the total detriment of health companies and especially of citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In conclusion, from the analysis of the DEF presented by the government Gentiloni Silveri, on 12 indicators of the well-being of the Italians, seven do not progress or withdraw; therefore, in considering this Document as the basis on which to work, these weak points must become the new strength of the Government of change, according to the guidelines already indicated in recent weeks by the Minister of Economic Development and Minister of Labour and Social Policies Luigi Di Maio and the guidelines being elaborated also in the so-called decree dignity, which declares fight against the precariousness of work; that precariousness that the reform of Renzi's work has contributed to generalize as a norm of life of the Italians [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senator Bellanova]] and which is now intended to bring back into the groove of a physiological share with respect to the norm, which must be that of stable, fairly paid and socially sustainable work.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u56	Senator, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u57	VONO (M5S). I shall conclude, Mr President. I refer to a road map within which passwords must be the pillars in order to definitively eliminate this gap between North and South and finally restore dignity to Italian citizens, for a truly fair and supportive country. The keywords are transparency in procurement contracts, essential levels of assistance and performance, bureaucracy and simplification of public administration. Only in this way will we have the true Italy of change. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u58	He's enlisted to speak Senator Aimi. Before I give him the floor, ladies and gentlemen, I say, for the benefit of all, that I will remember the time allocated to each speech. One minute before the end of time, the Presidency will give a bell. Then you'll have a minute to finish. I now give the floor to Senator Aimi.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u59	Bumble bells, very kind President. Mr President, members of the Government, not so many in this House, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen the presentation of the Economic and Financial Document today. However, it seemed to me that I had attended the presentation of two different documents in this House: one is a final frame that clarifies the real situation in Italy. And it is a desperate and desperate situation, but to which we have come as a result - unfortunately - of the wrong actions carried out by those who preceded us. I am referring to the government which, for five years, presided over economic policies. We find ourselves in a situation of extreme difficulty, apart from any consideration. Although there have been particularly favourable economic indicators that could have allowed Italy to explain the sails (because we had a very low dollar, an oil price also absolutely affordable from the Italian economy), and even with the quantitative easing that helped the companies, the picture is now absolutely bleak. In Europe, in fact, we have won the black shirt in terms of unemployment: in particular female unemployment and youth unemployment. We have found ourselves in a very serious situation with regard to companies. And I'd like to say something. We can make all the policies we want, but if we do not really start to bring taxation, which is too high, to a level that is accessible to businesses, we will always find ourselves in difficulty. I would add that corporate income is distorted, for the costs that are indeducible, or only partially deductible, of companies. This is something that I think the government should take on, too. We know perfectly well that a company, in the end, will obviously have to pay taxes on profits and what remains. However, if the salary of employees, the contributions paid and the negative aspect of interest paid on banks are not eliminated, companies will always find themselves in difficulty. Another aspect is, of course, immigration. This government has assumed, through the Minister of the Interior, an attitude of contrast; it has reversed the course, finally. The right centre, on this point, is compact and supported these policies, because we have witnessed a real invasion in Italy. And when poverty is combined with poverty, there is obviously a war between the poor, which has brought much of the country into a situation of enormous difficulty. Without considering, again, the aspects that derive from this. In fact, the DEF explicitly speaks of costs: 4.6 billion investments for the reception of new arrivals. Two hundred thousand people assisted. A great interest on the part of many and, in particular, the cooperatives, who have launched themselves in this enterprise. We say, then, that we must begin to reduce the entrances, to reverse the course and that we must, above all, begin to consider different policies that help the Italians, those Italians who are in difficulty. Because today seeing illegals landing in Italy and staying in hotels, compared to millions of Italian citizens (7 percent) living in conditions of absolute poverty and who sometimes do not even receive 1000 euros per month or 500 euros of pension, is a fact that makes Italy ashamed. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I hope that, with the contribution of Forza Italia, we can definitely reverse the course with respect to this type of policy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u60	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Economic and Financial Document, by the admission of its own extenders and by what we have heard in this House today, is incomplete. Brothers of Italy presented his resolution to the DEF: he did so by focusing five fundamental points, among which we included a specific request to the Government. We ask this government for a commitment, a family support plan that I would call a Marshall plan for birth. In short, a strong and helpful plan, because also the DEF confirms that the national framework is characterized by social discomfort. Our country is a country that runs away, between economic poverty, but also among the so-called new poverty, post-materialistic and qualitative. There is in the background a knot that must be broken: the demographic crisis, the Italian birthday. Our country is aging: on the one hand, there is the progressive lengthening of average life; on the other, there is the average of a child per couple or not even the mathematical replacement of the parent couple. It is an ageing country: if this Government really wants to introduce a change of pace, do something more than is foreseen in the Government contract. Enter with this DEF some elements that we allow ourselves to suggest, first of all what we have called "childhood income," that is, a monthly allowance of 400 euros for every child from zero to six years old; and again, the progressive reduction of VAT on children's products. Moreover - because it is necessary to intervene with a model of system and not with interventions of segment - it is necessary to increase the offer of socio-educational services for children, from the neonatal belt to the preschool age. Think of the kindergartens: we imagine them free - and we would have already identified the covers - and open full-time, because full-time parents work, and rotating in the summer period. And again, we would like to see included in this Document the full legal recognition not only of the figure, but also of the activity of family caregivers, a fundamental axis of welfare and central of all those services to the family. We need to promote the so-called instruments of family-work reconciliation in practice, but we must do so here too with a system approach, because, ladies and gentlemen, we must encourage free choices and support maternity and paternity choices. We must ask ourselves why there is a difference between fertility expectations and the birth rate: young couples are not supported; it is not selfishness, therefore, nor hedonism, but it is called precariousness and economic crisis. We do not say this, but the ISTAT data, of which I will report only one: in 2017 Italy touched its historical minimum of birth (458,000 babies) and the number of deaths exceeded that of the born, with a negative balance of almost 200,000 units. That is what politics must be asked about, and a programming document must also be able to respond to this. The Government of Change, if change wants to create, produce and introduce, must also do its part on this issue. This government must not be afraid to launch a policy to support the family: France did it decades ago, I want to remind colleagues, and it managed to defeat the demographic crisis. Why then, ladies and gentlemen, should we emphasize these aspects in an economic document? It is not only for what is called the joy of being "continued," but for another reason. It is because motherhood and fatherhood are not a private fact; motherhood and fatherhood have a social value and, as such, must be addressed, shared and sustained. And then, courage, introduce this change and help the country to have children. It's the history that asks politics, it's not the statistics. It is history that asks politics, not only for our past - and that would be enough - but for its future. The stakes, which I believe to be central, are in fact the very identity of our people and their continuity. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Mangialavori]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u62	Senator Solinas is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, the Economic and Financial Document, which is before the House today, bears within itself the limit and contradictions inherent in a text allegedly technical adopted by a Government which has resigned in a particular situation of transition between two legislatures. In fact, however, it proposes between the lines a line of substantial continuity with respect to the lay totems of the European financial formulas: austerity, flexibility, competitive devaluation. The vote of 4 March imposes on this majority and on the Government, which expresses a profound rethinking of the contents and underlying philosophy of the DEF, starting from the construction of the scenario and the national reform programme. While it is true that the deficit-to-GDP ratio is one of the main international indicators for investors, it must be consistently stated that its value can be adjusted by working not only on the numerator with depressive policies that continuously reduce expenditure. We remain convinced that we can and must act on the denominator, encouraging demand and growth. This will certainly require a European review of the choices made on the strict budgetary constraints and the fiscal austerity measures which have marked the Community policies of the last two months. It is worth recalling an objective and non-predictive fact of which we cannot fail to take into account, represented by the negative effects of supply policies alone which, presented as a solution par excellence (just recall here the recurring reference to various liberalisations, privatisations, flexibility), have increased the depressive phase. In this sense, Krugman's economic models also show that in debt reduction economies, such as Italy, the expansion of supply can reduce not only prices, but the same product. As well as increasing labour market flexibility, with a related contraction in stable employment, risks worsening the recession because, by reducing the overall income available to the population, it leads to the collapse of aggregate demand. Evident reasons of time and procedure have imposed that work be done on this basic text, but I hope that the resolution that will be approved by the Senate commits the Government to an update of the DEF that adapts it to the policy lines on which it has obtained the confidence of the Chambers. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] With regard to the macroeconomic framework although recent years have consolidated a trend of global growth supported by manufacturing and by the expansionary impulses of international trade around 3,8, according to estimates by the International Monetary Fund, the European economy marks a slower step, at 2,4, with a counter-trend for the coming years assessed in deceleration at 2%. In this context, Italy grows less, reaching 1.5%, and forecasts in the two-year period are down to 1.1 for 2019, with a worrying prospect of an international geoeconomic and political scenario. The unemployment rate is steadily above 10%, with untolerable peaks in the Mezzogiorno and the islands of the country. A major public investment plan is needed to launch an expansionary phase of the economic cycle, but it is also necessary to recreate favourable conditions for private investment; less bureaucracy, certainty of rights, greater speed of administrative procedures and stability of policies. Above all, however, it is necessary to assume a new centrality of the forgotten protagonist of life: man. All the indicators, values and numbers of which we speak have assumed a pernicious supremacy over time. We are convinced that the rules of an assembly that really wants to be civil and democratic must be functionalized to the pursuit of a collective well-being that renders dignity to the life of each citizen. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] This stream of poverty, old and new, of marginality and suffering that are advancing in contemporary society, are undermining the presuppositions of peaceful civil coexistence and suggesting a negative perception of all levels of government and institutions themselves, up to compromising the dream of a European construction based on peoples and regions and not on bureaucracies and financial rules. The integration that is needed will only be possible in a context of renewed confidence that depends on expansive policies capable of creating new wealth to be redistributed fairly. On this basis, a profound renegotiation of the budgetary constraints and European macro-economic policies must be launched. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] We trust in the action announced by the Government in this sense that it will have to free resources to repair the country both geographically and socially. We, the Sardinians and the Legists, together with this, will devote all our energy and all our commitment to this open legislature. I personally will do so with a particular regard for my small country, Sardinia, which has been serving too long without listening to the weight and diseconomies deriving from its condition of insularity which inexorably exacerbates any negative effects suffered by the country as a whole. But we Sardinians have an ancestral tenacity, demonstrated even a century ago in the trenches of the Karst and Mount Zebio, when, to help draw the borders of the present country, we paid the greatest tribute of blood of the Great War. As secretary of the Sardinian Action Party, founded by the veteran fighters of the glorious Sassari Brigade, I will bring into humble awareness of my many limits, that tenacity on the trenches of today: unemployment, inequality and suffering of all a people. [[Applause from the L-SP Group and Senator Gaudiano. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u64	He's enlisted to speak Senator Damiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw the attention of the House to a proposal which is present and priority in the programme of my political group, Forza Italia, and which is also included in the resolution at the DEF that we will shortly deposit, namely the commitment of the Government to the implementation of a great strategic plan for the South, finally freed from welfare logic and based on incentives for free economic initiative. Credit, fiscal and infrastructural policies, investments are the actions able to create a context that can make the Mezzogiorno attractive. In this direction, a very strong impact instrument can be represented by the so-called 34 per cent clause - that is, the forecast of an ordinary level of capital expenditure to be allocated to the South proportional to the resident population; Indeed, Forza Italia in its proposal increases this percentage and wants to increase it to 45%. The Svimez wanted to estimate in retrospect how much it would have affected, in the years of the crisis, the application of this clause of 34 percent: the loss of product and occupation would have been halved and the balance would have been positive for the entire country. Minister Lezzi has confirmed in recent days that he wants to implement the measure through contributions from the individual ministries concerned: the hope is that we can finally move from good intentions to facts and turn our proposals into reality. We must look to the South today with new eyes, not as a problem in search of a solution but as an opportunity for the rapid recovery of the national and continental economy. It is a fact that the South is growing much more than the North. In 2016 he consolidated the recovery with a growth of 1% of GDP higher than the rest of the country. Especially the manufacturing industry is growing in recent years, even twice as much as that of Northern Italy. The aim of economic policy should now be to accelerate the growth rate. In order to continue on this virtuous path, however, some measures must be avoided: the activation of the VAT safeguard clauses for around €15 billion in 2018 would have a strongly negative impact on the southern economy, because the families in the South have low income levels. Not only is income on average lower but, as the rate of female employment in the Mezzogiorno is about 30 percentage points lower than that of the Centre-North, the possibility of having a second income in the family to supplement the former is also very low. It is then clear that measures such as citizenship income are only a sort of palliative with which to stall, rather than solve problems, if the government does not intervene forcefully and widely on labour issues, affecting structural dynamics. The South grows despite the decreasing trend of the redistribution of public finance for the Mezzogiorno, declining, from the early 2000s, by more than 10 percent. The interdependence between North and South today, especially in trade flows, must not be overlooked at all. Domestic demand in the South, from the sum of consumption and investment, accounts for about 14% of Northern Central GDP, almost 180 billion. For every 10 euros that flow from the North Centre to the South in the form of tax residues, 4 euros make the reverse path in the form of demand for goods and services. Aiming at the Mezzogiorno means being able to count on the drive of the internal engine of development and giving more strength to the entire country: there is therefore an urgent need for public and private investment and work. The other painful note about the South is the credit. In the South money costs more and access on demand is far less than in the rest of the country. Just consider the difference between deposits and uses: the South in 2016 has a deficit of employment compared to deposits of 5 billion euros, compared to a north-central surplus of more than 800 billion euros, a sign that something does not work. Access to money must therefore be made as much as possible and less expensive. A key role in this area can be played by cooperative credit banks and rural banks, to encourage the creation of youth enterprise projects in the Mezzogiorno regions. More than €63 billion of jobs and €53 billion of deposits are numbers that represent a valuable reference for the business fabric. Popular banks also play a widespread role in local development today. It is necessary to rethink the Mezzogiorno with the Mediterranean as a horizon, because the Mediterranean means logistics, trade, food supply chains, major infrastructure, procurement and public works. The Mezzogiorno is a first-class logistics platform. Unfortunately in the years little or nothing has been realized to revitalize our coasts, the ports, the retroporti, the railroads and the interporti. The new southernist policy must emancipate itself from assisting and waiting for resources. A complex challenge that of the Government, expected by us, as the Forza Italia Group, to the test for the implementation of the contract, which will have to see unity of intent between two political forces that have signed it and that precisely in the matter of Mezzogiorno and economic policy have considerable divergences. He must therefore demonstrate that he has well understood the lesson of the need to read, analyse and solve problems with a systemic and non-sectoral approach, leaving the clutches between North and South out of the door and imposing a change of pace and course on the country that finds in the constitutional principles of solidarity and national cohesion the keystone of its future action. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u66	He's enlisted to speak Senator Turco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u67	Mr President, distinguished members of the Government, very valuable colleagues, the document of economics and finance being approved and drafted by the previous Government certainly does not reflect the political orientations and strategic choices of the current majority, by virtue of the contract signed by the political forces that gave birth to the new Executive. I think it is useful and appropriate to focus on some important considerations related to the archinota, which is superdisputed and never resolved on a southern issue. This is a dangerous crisis, which has unfortunately lasted for many years, to the point of assuming the cyclopic proportions of a real system emergency, as evidenced by the significant variations of negative sign detected by the various economic, employment, social and cultural indicators. The seriousness of this issue is also confirmed by the significant decline in consumption, which is also evident in vital economic sectors such as food and health. In the South the level of poverty is such that even a large and growing part of the population renounces any form of primary care and care. The South in these years has been abandoned and isolated to its bitter destiny, in the total and conscious indifference of the last Governments, as if it were a useless and annoying wreck. In this context, it is obvious that economic poverty, social abandonment and cultural degradation were her masters. It is time that the country, in its entirety, finally took charge of this emergency. In Italy there will never be a real, solid and widespread economic and social growth, as well as cultural, if this will not be accompanied by the economic ransom of the South. It is necessary, however, to initiate a courageous and timely change in the methodology adopted so far. For the success of this methodological change, it is appropriate to abandon the welfare policy, the contributions to rain, or to support the usual industrial cathedrals in the desert, unable to create widespread well-being, fair, respectful of the environment and the health of the citizens, as happened in the famous story that sees the protagonist ILVA of Taranto, in which still, after six years of nothingness, the right to health and to the protection of the environment and the right to work are opposed. It is proposed, therefore, a new vision, of perspective type, that knows, on the one hand, to value the true territorial vocations of the South, such as agriculture, tourism, food and wine, the crafts, the mariculture, the harbour and airport traffics with the relative logistics, only to name a few; on the other hand, to support the innovation, the scientific research and the new economic sectors of the future, such as robotics, computerization, artificial intelligence, airspace, renewable energies, the industry 4.0. Recent ISTAT data confirm that economic growth was stronger in the North (plus 1.3%) than in the Mezzogiorno (plus 0.1 percent). In essence, if you consider only this parameter, you can say that the South has remained almost still. The differences between North and South have been greatly accentuated mainly by the sharp reduction in infrastructure investments, both public and private. As an example, the map of areas covered by fibre optics or high-speed railway lines, where only 237 kilometres in the South are contrasted with the 732 kilometres in the North, is confirmed by this lack of uniformity, adding to the backwardness of the entire local mobility. Among the other factors that have contributed to sharpening the differences between the extremes of the country, certainly important is that due to the credit sector. The banking system, in fact, collects savings that invests mainly in the northern areas of the country, employing them, moreover, at rates lower than those practiced in the southern areas. This led to a dualism and unacceptable credit asymmetry for individuals and businesses, reinforced by the fact that there is no longer a banking system in the South that is rooted in the territory and integrated with the needs of different stakeholders. This phenomenon is likely to increase even more with the recently launched reform of cooperative credit. The former rural coffers, indeed, although with their due criticalities, have always played an irrefutable and fundamental strategic role of support and territorial development, both economically and socially. There is, moreover, another problem that is rarely raised, but that I have had the opportunity to deepen because of the various research carried out in the academic field, namely the financial situation of the Italian municipalities. From this point of view too, the North-South divide is emblematic. The various scientific studies carried out on the subject show that more than 73 percent of the local government's financial disruptions are in the South, with a number of annual failures declared in the years 2011-2015 almost tripled compared to previous periods. This figure becomes particularly important if it is linked to the principle of the Stability Pact and to the distortions caused by the system of determining standard requirements, introduced with fiscal federalism, which the South has not been able to deal with. Another critical issue that deserves similar attention is the condition of many southern universities, which, following the latest university reforms, risk not only the financial collapse, but also the loss of that essential human capital necessary for their own survival, both in terms of teaching staff and in terms of student population. The reasons for this crisis, as well as historical ones, are due above all to the absence of productive poles and neighboring economic and scientific districts able to support and finance the same research activities of the universities of Southern Italy. The osmotic exchange between universities, the world of research, enterprise and the financial system must be the basis of the process of scientific and technological innovation, which can restore competitiveness to a depressed area as is the Mezzogiorno today. This process, however, needs to be fueled and coordinated by a greater presence and greater state support, especially in the cultural field, as well as infrastructure. In conclusion, authoritative President, distinguished rulers and illustrious colleagues, I would like to remind you that our primary institutional task is to give full implementation to the constitutional dictation referred to in Article 3, which in the second paragraph reads as follows: It is the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles of an economic and social order, which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the human person and the effective participation of all workers in the political, economic and social organization of the Country. I conclude with the well-known proverb that the last ones will be the first but, in the case of the southern phenomenon, even today, after decades, it is found that the last ones have remained more and more last. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u68	Senator Ferrazzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the issue of the circular economy at international level is finally becoming central and emerging from the places of scientific research in order to become a common awareness and above all a real activity of governments. From this point of view, certainly the governments of the last five years have made very important progress and I believe that, beyond the membership of each of us, we must all be proud. It is quite clear, in fact, that the development of the country passes through the circular economy; it is about the quality of life as well as the sustainability of the ecosystem in general. It is certainly not a new concept, but innovative in relation to normal and current production processes. It is a concept that transforms production and also consumption from simply linear to regenerative cycle; it works in the logic of resilient systems, and therefore of diversity as a point of strength; it works in the logic of saving resources, and we all understand the strategicity of this issue. It works in the logic of waste reduction as well as in the logic of generating new and innovative jobs. It works, of course, also in the logic of sharing economy, because it is about moving from the single property of the products to the real use. Therefore, we enter directly into the only possible development, i.e. the concept of sustainable development. In order to achieve this cultural change we need to move - and previous governments have made great progress in this direction - for example, to product innovation but also to process within the entire industrial chain in order to enhance the extension of the life of the products. We need to work on long-term products for the reduction of waste. Analogously, we must work, for example, on the whole issue of soil consumption. The sprawl is now a characteristic of our territories, not only of some cities in North America or Northern Europe. Soil consumption is on everyone's lips, but it is necessary to work consistently on these concepts; therefore, with regard to this, great progress has been made by our governments on the subject of building demolition, recovery, urban regeneration, zero soil consumption, through work on brownfields and not greenfields. Now, the circular economy is an economy in which nothing is wasted, the waste of a production is no longer seen as waste but as by-products capable, through innovation, as I said before, of process but also of product, of creating new industrial opportunities. It is clear that, if this were to happen, we would have waste which is no longer waste because it would be recycled and therefore become renewed raw materials and would move on to the concept of reuse, recycling and recovery, which would become the key words around which to build a new paradigm to promote sustainability, innovation and also the competitiveness of our industrial system. Faced with these government initiatives finally set in motion, today Italy still produces about 30 million tons of municipal waste, of which only 44 percent is recycled and about 26 percent, President, still has to be landfilled. We therefore call on this Government to continue in the direction we have taken. In particular, it is necessary to work on the logic of waste management so that it is accompanied by measures to prevent waste generation. In particular, as has already been the case in the Industry 4.0 plan, eco-design and research should be encouraged for the realization of more durable, reusable and repairable products. We must work in the logic of green procurement by public administrations that see our country in a position of vanguard also compared to the other members of the European Union. Then there is the great commitment to halve the landfill. Now, it is clear that in the face of all this, the objectives to be pursued are those just indicated but a great acceleration must absolutely be given in this direction. Finally, as far as land consumption is concerned, the outgoing governments have made a significant transformation in the logic of the bans. I remember the suburban ban, the largest urban transformation plan in the history of the Republic, more than 2 billion euros of investments made available to the cities. Now, these are the lines to follow and these, briefly defined, are the things done. To you, and above all to the majority, the task of passing for the good of the whole community and of all citizens, beyond belongings, from words - and often from chatter - to deeds. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u70	She's enlisted to speak Senator Lonardo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, the DEF proposal brought today by the Government to the attention of the Senate is the most effective synthesis of the political phase that the country has been through in recent months. A page with expectations far from rosy. In fact, all are highlighted, in the Document as in the related acts in the statements in support, the contradictions and distortions of the political path born from the union between Movimento 5 Stars and League. These two political forces have in fact managed to build, despite the electoral alliances submitted to the citizens, a substantial parliamentary majority, an indispensable prerequisite for building a government but absolutely not enough to really govern the country. The miraculous promises of the electoral campaign have already been filed, when the subsistence allowances waving under the nose of voters had reached the adventurous figure of 1600 euros monthly and the lower were the unique rates for taxation to companies. As emerges from the approach underlying the DEF, the first real economic political act of the new Executive, are postponed until the date of destination of the many propaganda measures of support to the income while it remains all standing a dualist vision of the country destined, once again, to penalize the South. I don't see the Minister for the South that I was just seeing around and that I would like to see here. I have to make a very singular parallelism, of ancient history, very sad and bitter; I think of Achilles Lauro who, in order to get the votes, sent a pair of shoes to the voters: one before and the other after for the election. But here we are faced with even more dramatic evidence because the second shoe, ladies and gentlemen, I think will never arrive; not even the one planned for the South. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] After dispensing promises of all kinds, thanks to which an extraordinary consensus has been obtained, concentrated precisely in the South - I repeat: precisely in the South - suddenly the Mezzogiorno disappears from the political horizon of the Government and the DEF. Yet, a large part of the country has believed, despite the obvious unrealizability, the promises of the electoral campaign. Now the Government has a duty to move towards that direction and to include the related measures of the Programming Document. There is no trace of this sensitivity, indeed it seems that the embrace among the new allies has profoundly modified also the direction pursued by the grillism, quickly become much less accustomed to the welcome and irremediably to the Northist traction. But the task of the Southern ruling class, women and men who have been on the front line for years to respond to the many emergencies, will be precisely to recall to their duties those who instead think they can dedicate themselves to other, perhaps after having done full of votes. No, ladies and gentlemen, this will not be allowed: whoever promised to do what he must do, or apologize. Those who know the real conditions of the Mezzogiorno know well that, despite the growth of GDP, which could lead the country to pre-crisis levels, the South continues to walk at a reduced speed. A dualism that penalises young people in particular, on which our dramatic migratory phenomena are concentrated. In the last fifteen years - heard - 1.7 million inhabitants of the southern regions have emigrated. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Over 700,000 have never returned. Of the latter, 70 percent were between fifteen and thirty - four years old, for over a third graduate youth. The South has already paid and is still paying the highest of tributes. The best intelligences and youth forces that should be the flywheel for growth go away, with an employment rate that remains the worst in Europe and the negative record of births since the unification of Italy. We have no prejudice to the new Executive, as announced we will serenely evaluate every measure, supporting without ideological fences those useful to the relaunch of our country. However, it is clear that a unique address for economic policy and, therefore, for government action must be recovered. There are points of departure that need to be clearly clarified. It is not seriously conceivable a policy that is charitable on the one hand, and ultraliberal on the other. They don't keep opposites together. At best, the effectiveness of the measures is sterilized, much more often they create buzzwords that Italians cannot afford. Similarly, the government must decide once and forever whether to be close to the South. It is not enough to have created a dedicated minister, but without portfolio and without content; instead, it is necessary to promote its restart, give breath to families and businesses, build a new horizon of development and growth, or continue with the forecasts that characterize this DEF. For the reasons expressed, for the absence of all those measures announced and that are not found in this document (starting from the income of citizenship), for the lack of minimal attention to the difficult situation that crosses the Mezzogiorno, for the resounding distraction that after the election campaign characterized the government that forgets the South, for the reasons cited and for those desumible from the real needs of young people, families and companies of the South, who waited and wait for answers and get nothing from this DEF, I announce my vote against. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u72	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ruspandini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 2017, public investment fell to 33.7 billion, equivalent to the historic minimum of 2% of GDP, when the average in the rest of the eurozone is 2.6%. Compared to 2016, there was a reduction in public investment of 6.2 percent in real terms. From 2007 to 2017, the reduction in investment was over 36%. On the one hand, therefore, a drastic decrease in public intervention, on the other hand, public debt continues to grow inexorably, surpassing a new record every year. We have even exceeded EUR 2,300 billion in these early months of the year. Expenditure on investment is reduced, but total public expenditure remains a monster, reaching almost 49% of GDP. Brothers of Italy wants to reduce unproductive current public expenditure, but to substantially increase public expenditure on investments, works and infrastructure. Moreover, this is our history of Italian heirs of the great Roman civilization. Our ancestors have exported all over the world civilizations, built aqueducts, bridges, roads and ports, improving the living conditions of other peoples, especially of Europe, such as those who today are allowed to give us even lessons and to whom we have, even in this House, remissive attitudes and, in a sense, reverential fear. How can we accept that some connections built by the ancient Romans are still perfectly functional today as bridges collapse, perhaps the day after they were inaugurated? How can we accept that roads crumble like nothing's happened? Let the ports rust? We are heirs to those who have built consular roads that have joined the peninsula; we are heirs to those who have built aqueducts that still serve our families. We are the sons of an Italy that, in the 1960s, shortly after the war, built motorways that we still use every day. How can we accept - an example among a thousand - that in Puglia the railways are still on a single track? How can we accept that there are no decent links between Catania and Palermo? The operation of these infrastructures and their improvement would mean more tourism, more industry, more wealth and more economy. We must then completely reverse this vision; above all, we should have a vision because unfortunately in this DEF there is no investment plan and we find little trace of it also in the Grillo-Legist agreement on some issues. Nor are there adequate coverages and serious reflections on the objective need to focus on digital infrastructures, which should be heard, for example, by those who have transferred their idea of democracy to the Internet. The moment the whole world discusses that huge investment in infrastructure and connections, which is the new silk route, we have been stuck for years. Some would even like to oppose a great work like that of the TAV or the bridge on the Strait. A nation that does not build roads, that does not plan bridges, ports, airports and infrastructures, is a nation that has renounced to grow and is destined to slip into misery. For this reason we ask the Government to incorporate the proposals of Brothers of Italy in the field of public investment, which we would like to propose in our resolution. At least 3% of GDP should be allocated to public investment and infrastructure to return to the modernisation of the nation, starting from the digital network and moving towards improved commuting and high speed. It would take a plan for the South to realize the infrastructural and logistic conditions necessary for the growth and development of the territory. Then there is also the defense of our strategic assets, of our productive capacity from foreign aggression, starting from the protection of telecommunication networks, infrastructure, logistics, technology and transport, the same ones that years of left-wing government have made fertile land of looting of France and other foreign states. If the Government follows this path that looks to the future of our nation, it can count on the loyal collaboration of Brothers of Italy. That is why - let us be honest - the real challenge in Europe will be to bring the share of structural investment outside the calculation of today's deficit-GDP ratio allowed. This is the challenge and on this challenge Brothers of Italy will be there. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Biasotti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u74	Mr President, certainly the members of the Government know that, as my colleague said earlier, there is a very important chapter in the document on economic and financial affairs on infrastructure which, in particular, are considered priority objectives and indispensable for the economic growth of our country. Today we pay 7-8 points of GDP for infrastructural inefficiency is marine is port is road, that railway. Fortunately this Document soothes this deficiency and gives a perspective of development. In this document there are several works and I want to focus on two of them. The first is the Third pass of Genoa, the so-called railway line that from Genoa leads to Rotterdam, and that could allow us to stop the ships that play force pass in the Mediterranean and that instead go in the ports of the North, with an unacceptable increase for the economy of our Country. This third pass has already been fully financed and 30% of its total cost has already been paid for. The second work is the Gronda di Genova, a highway pass - there is a continuous clogging of goods, since we still have a highway made by Mussolini that passes through the city, two lanes, really unacceptable - which is considered the most strategic work of the highway company. This work is at zero cost to the State because it is fully financed by Autostrade for Italy, having obtained the same two months ago a four-year extension in order to increase the tolls a bit. So it's at zero cost, because it's already fully funded. I don't even know if Minister Toninelli and Vice Prime Minister Di Maio know in detail this document of economy and finance, because Minister Toninelli has declared from all sides, to the "Sun 24 Hours" and on TV, that all the infrastructural works will be suspended, carefully assessing their sustainability; we do not know by what parameter, since public works are not an economic activity calculable with a give-have, but an activity that lasts fifty-seven years. So you're gonna suspend them. Even more serious: the vice-premier Di Maio came to Genoa declaring that the Third Pass is a completely useless work, is a cement lobby and cannot be done. Fortunately for me - and I conclude my speech - the government is a Legist traction; it is not a yellow-green government, because by now the yellow has become practically green, and that raises me quite. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u75	He's enlisted to speak Senator Laforgia. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u76	Mr President, I have to say to this House that the subject of today's debate is rather curious. We are only discussing the economic and financial document with regard to the updating part of the trend framework, which is totally out of our discussion because it is not contained in the document; the majority resolution does not contain the whole part concerning the issue of economic policy in the strict sense, the programmatic part. Mr President, through you - I have listened to a number of representatives and it seems almost like this passage is bureaucratic and delivery, since we are referring to something done by the previous government - I would like to say something: from today the DEF is a creature of the majority and we would have expected to read in that document something more significant about the things that this Government intends to do in terms of economic policy, and not simply a generic reference to that government contract - as they call it - that from our point of view is little more than a political manifesto, however with very uncertain features, I would like to say in some respects even disturbing. This does not prevent us, as far as we are concerned, from making fundamental considerations about the suggestions that we have heard, because they are suggestions of economic policy, which, moreover, we have tried to capture here and there in some live Facebook, in some statements. I repeat, suggestions of economic policy, which of course do not prevent us from saying briefly what we will do and what we think would be useful for this country. Meanwhile, we would need to be aware of a more fragile picture than has been described at macroeconomic level (I will not dwell on this point); I have also heard other colleagues stress the fact that real GDP growth in the years 2017-2018, at 1.5%, is set to fall: the European Commission, international rating agencies and major financial institutions argue that the forecasts made are a little too optimistic, so we are going to measure ourselves with a further fall in growth forecasts. The main economic variables of this country - which I do not list - are always below the average of the countries of the eurozone and we must measure the state of health of Italy not only in relation to its growth, but also and above all in relation to how much it grows compared to others. The deficit and the public debt see their situation worsen, as the rapporteur also said this morning, also because Eurostat decides to include in this expenditure also that for the rescue of banks. In our motion for a resolution we have defined unrealistic and alarming debt targets for the coming years because they are basically based on further and severe reductions in public expenditure in certain sensitive areas, starting with health. I say this, Mr President, because I think we are in a very delicate passage. Let me not dwell on the fact that some of the variables that have had a positive impact on the macroeconomic framework will no longer have a role in the coming months, starting from the end of quantitative easing. The issue in this case is not simply the release of safeguard clauses. Allow me, Mr President, to say that we missed the fact that the newly installed government did not deal with the first thing that should have been dealt with, namely to avoid a further slaughter on the families and businesses of this country: we are in the sphere of the minimum trade union. The theme is whether this Government (we do not know it yet, because we simply have very generic documents) has the desire and ambition to understand what moves within the black box of the economic and productive processes of the world of work of this country, that is, at what point is Italy on the level of its transformation. Personally, I think that we must understand - I say this with a somewhat emphatic phrase - what are the segments, sectors, parts of Italian society that have paid more than others the weight of globalisation and the effects of a long period of austerity of the policies imposed by the European Union. Mr President, I am addressing you and, through you, the majority: do you want to look into it? My impression is that there is absolutely no such will; if I am on the road these days on the issue of immigration and on a deplorable and unsustainable affair such as the statements we have heard about the Roma, I have the impression that the majority is interested in everything, starting from a permanent election campaign, except to deal with the priorities of the Italians. You must explain to your fellow citizens (who are also ours) that everything you are saying on the ground of immigration and the fates you are doing do not shift by a single millimeter the material condition of millions of women and men in this country. We have to tell this truth. We then think that you have to do some things (I proceed quickly, because I don't have enough time). The first is to declare officially that the season has ended, which has lasted for more than twenty years and has also had protagonists transversal to the political forces, in which it has always been thought, from time to time, that our economic and social system could start again by tampering with the rules of the labour market, making it more flexible: which, in the end, has always meant to compress the sphere of the rights of workers and workers. We open a new season, if you are capable of it (I doubt it), the one that says that this country cannot grow unless it opens a great plan of public investments in strategic sectors, starting from what concerns the environment and environmental sustainability (what in our resolution we have defined a green new deal), the processes of decarbonization and a substantial transition from the linear economy to a circular economy. Work: Mr Di Maio will be in the Chamber next week. We'll listen to what you tell us, not just about security, but about everything else. I see a proliferation of positive initiatives on the issue of jobs, new jobs and safeguards; here too, however, we look inside the black box of the labour market of this country. This country has a labour market in which, when creating an additional work unit, it is precarious and concentrated in the older cohorts (in the face of the generational issue), and in the sectors with the lowest technology (in the face of the reasoning on the model of productive specialization that we should face). Let us look, that is, at the problems and, above all, at the challenges that concern modernity. We are the ones who, in the election campaign, said that we should and should do, as a country, what are doing more advanced countries than our own. There is a great debate on how employment is increased, how quality employment is increased and - I add - how working time is reduced to equal wages. We are being reasoned by great countries, much more developed than our own. When you talk about taxation, please refer to the Constitution. We will fight flat tax, because it is a tool of unfair taxation, outside the perimeter of the Constitution. For us to be in the Constitution means a very simple thing (later, translate it as you want): those who have the most in this country must and can give more, because there is a need for a great operation to redistribute wealth and opportunities. Finally, on Europe and, in general, on the establishment of economic policy, especially with regard to the issue of strict public finances, I have listened to the statements made by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. In short, the impression is that the majority is a little more plummeted and swamped than the tone of the Minister of the Interior's direct Facebook. You got off the moon a little bit, and you came a little bit further to the ground. On the other hand, we think that it is precisely on the subject of Europe and the establishment of economic policy that we have known on that institutional ground in recent years that we need to do something far more radical, such as achieving a deficit -GDP ratio of 2% for the coming years; so that we do not simply beat the punches on the table - which is the rhetoric that has invested the public debate of this country in Europe - but really change the rules of the game. If we do this - but I'm afraid you won't - we'll put the country back on the right track. We will make an opposition without discounts but, above all, we will not just make an opposition: we would like to build an alternative to economic policy, social policy and your idea of a country. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u77	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, today we are commenting on a DEF that has no fathers, who probably has no grandparents, who has no ancestors but who does not even have children. A DEF that is born stump. A DEF that has nothing but a passive photographed vision of what is the result of the policies of the left and that has visions of perspective purely anchored to a defensive policy. A DEF that therefore sees all our disapproval, at least in the contents photographed by the same. A DEF that, even as far as the forecasts are concerned, continually reproposes fantastic data, not so much because they are beautiful but because they are a dream. Already in 2017, for example, the DEF provided for an amount of EUR 5 billion (or, if I am not mistaken, 0.3% of GDP) in the area of privatisations, which were then resolved, ladies and gentlemen, in one single item: 'zero'. Five billion were planned, zero is what has been achieved. What have the Silver Gentile Government and the Government in office done? They proposed the same DEF, with a 0.3% of GDP, equal to EUR 5 billion, in privatisations. We therefore continue to rely on unreal data, on fantomatic disposals of real estate, which then rationally do not happen or however do not occur with the proposed numbers. This is unfortunately the status, which has seen in recent years - and precisely from the Monti Government onward - a growth in public debt of 400 billion, which on the other hand has not been accompanied by investments, but in fact only by a growth in expenditure. When we talk about spending review in the DEF - with a Britishism that often repeats itself, despite our idiom has nothing to envy to English - this revision of spending translates in fact, in the data of the DEF and in the annexes, in nothing but a contraction of public investment. This is unfortunately the dramatic reality. Then we always find a DEF that deals with an industrial production that has dropped by 20 percentage points. These are the figures that we take to dowry, but why, ladies and gentlemen? Because they are the result of a defensive policy, of a crisis policy that he has not been able to dare, of a policy that to speak to the belly and the masses has wanted to introduce in the last ten years taxes on wealth, the superbolts, the taxes on the boating, that is, removing the wealth from this country, instead of attracting it. The logic that should imprint instead the activities of the next budget law - and I address the Government - must be exactly opposite to what the Democratic Party has followed in recent years, so as to have a law that knows, not already redistribute the wealth that is not there but bring wealth in this country, attracting capital and investment in Italy. This has not been done, but if this Government wants to have the vote of Brothers of Italy it will have to do so clearly, not boating between often opposing and perhaps even irreconcilable needs. Where are the clear proposals on flat tax and tax peace, gentlemen of the government? We have not read about these issues, dear to our business, while we would like to read them and, above all, we would like to see content which is certainly more concrete and clearer. I am therefore talking about the only objective that appears to be apparent from the reading of the DEF - an objective that I believe is of course shared by everyone - that is to avoid the increase in VAT rates. We do not need to mention that the increase in VAT would represent nothing more than a recession, a contraction in expenditure. I would be pleased to see in the Government's proceedings what measures are being taken in order to realistically implement this necessary reversal of the increase in VAT rates. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to a preliminary theme to all the fiscal, financial and economic policy that the Government can and will have to do: I am referring to the issue of undeclared work and evasion and as a doctor of accounting I deliberately mention the results of the analysis contained in the report on the economy made by the National Council of Accountants. When we talk about undeclared - and I conclude - of these data that have been almost dramatically imposed, even medialy, on public opinion and that have denigrated our country, 200 billion euros of submerged, equal to 12% of GDP, are nothing more than 10% of GDP in the North, reaching 16% in the South. I would remind you that the figure for the North is absolutely consistent with European data. So we've made tax-free rules, we've created situations of reversal of the unacceptable burden of proof to criminalise enterprise and self-employment. I conclude by calling on the Government to remember that our situation is not so far from Europe, but precisely for this reason, it must improve a tax which today is unfair, voracious and occult. We want it simple and based on a flat tax that can really attract rich and wealth in this country; we cannot redistribute what is not there, we can perhaps redistribute better what will be there. Thank you and good work. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u79	Senator Durnwalder is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to discuss this document in a transitional phase between the trend framework for public accounts presented by the Government Gentiloni Silveri and an initial exposition of the new Government's policy commitments, which currently recommends a prudential assessment of the public finance framework. In this context, it should be borne in mind that there are priorities to be respected so that support for the expansion of the economy and the credibility of Italy in Europe can be maintained for the fiscal consolidation process. It is a path that has been undertaken continuously and with positive results and that today it is neither possible nor sustainable to interrupt, albeit on the basis of more moderate growth forecasts not only for Italy, but for the whole eurozone area. Indeed, after exceeding expectations in 2017, it stands at 2.4%, which represents the highest level of growth in the last ten years, confirms its positive trend, but with a slowdown that in the European Commission's estimates is attributed to relative cyclical factors. For our country, therefore, the benchmarks are: economic growth to 1.5%; budget balance in 2020; compliance with the Stability Pact; reduction of the debt-to-GDP ratio and deficit reduction. In order to respect and support these parameters, the Government needs to express an economic policy that does not interrupt structural reforms that have allowed a progressive reduction of the deficit and a reversal of the debt trend, which has stabilised with a reduction of one percentage point: from 131.8% in 2017 to 130.8% in 2018. It is clear that Italy must continue and consolidate its path of updating its accounts, but it is equally objective to say that our budgetary position is better than other European countries. So what must be our priorities? And what are the priorities of the new government? Parliamentary debate and the presentation of proposals for resolutions on the DEF should help to outline the framework for government action, to a lesser extent than hitherto clarified and in the perspective of the next budget law. For the sake of economic growth, which in the medium term, with regard to Italy and the eurozone, could present additional problems, compared to cyclical ones, due to possible protectionist measures or threats, the most urgent measure is the stop to safeguard clauses and therefore the increase in VAT, a maneuver that we know is estimated in the order of 12.5 billion increase. The new government announced its intention to place the need for additional flexibility in support of growth in Europe. This will certainly be within a framework made more complex by the ECB's decision to interrupt at the end of 2018, without increasing rates in the first half of 2019, quantitative easing. The ECB's extraordinary plan for the purchase of public securities was an important monetary policy factor that ensured market stability, expansionary measures and a reduced cost of debt. In Italy, this intervention has resulted in less interest, amounting to 15 billion euros per year, despite the increase in public debt in recent years, a condition that has been made possible by compliance with the constraints placed on public finances. For these reasons we await from the government the indication of a reliable framework that avoids, as it were, unsustainable programmatic extremisms. To conclude, we hope that, in the search for economic resources for finance, the ambitious programme of the new Government will not be sought, as has already been the case in the past, by the special self-governments, in violation of the statutory prerogatives and their implementing rules. In this regard, we would like to remind you that the financial agreement signed in October 2014 between the Autonomous Province of Bolzano and the Italian State, the so-called Guarantee Agreement, has redefined overall, until 2022, financial relations and excludes the possibility of worsening changes except for exceptional needs of public finance and for amounts already predefined in the Pact itself. To confirm this we point out the important decision of the Constitutional Court no. 103 of 2018. This judgment, for us a cornerstone, has reaffirmed the constitutional and statutory prerogatives of our special autonomy also in financial matters, emphasizing the principle pact of the financial autonomy of the Regions and the Provinces with special statute, principle that does not imply a constraint of result, but method, as reaffirmed in the judgment and must be declined in the form of loyal collaboration. It is therefore called for this principle to be scrupulously observed and guaranteed also within the framework of future budgetary laws. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u81	She's registered to speak Senator Malpezzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u82	Mr President, members of the Government, colleagues, as a member of the Special Commission, honestly, I would have preferred this analysis and this debate to be done with a clear statement by the Government in office with respect to the Economic and Financial Document and that it should not have been entrusted, so, to the Special Commission, because I would have liked to see finally written in black and white the measures of the electoral campaign that today have become the real change of this Government, in the sense that they have really changed: there is no more talk of the abolition of Fornero or of the 1,600 euros to families in difficulty, but of measures that we believe have all been watered down or postponed to date to be defined. I wouldn't be surprised either, because in this you are masters, if in some time, with a skillful operation of maquillage and communication (and you are truly unbeatable), you didn't take steps from previous governments by selling them as yours. But we are in favour of the good ideas being shared and we will continue to propose them to you and we are doing so at this moment: we are reaffirming the importance of strengthening the EI and the measures to support the birth, but it is not enough, because alongside those measures, which are going to buffer emergencies, we have visions, we make politics and we do not write contracts and those who make politics know that we need measures to cover emergencies, but we also need measures to cast a glimpse into the future, while you, as your first interventions show, are used to giving answers only on here and now, answers that are limited and obscure. At each exit of some of your ministers you will immediately repeat: "No, a moment, the contract is true", it being understood that perhaps your contract is also written with the same bad faith with which you are not even able to present yourself in the Chamber to explain how the fake government of transparent transparency is not and is the chronicle of the last days: it is not transparent in the funds of the League, it is not transparent in the nominations, it is not transparent in what concerns the stadiums and the Rome case. But that's not today's topic. Let us return to this contract that is true and if the contract is true, there is nothing in the contract, zero, in which we talk about a vision of the future. And look at the fact that in the debate here today - and it has been hours of discussion - the term 'future' has not been mentioned for once. When we talk about the future, we necessarily talk about young people and then, since it's fashionable, since it gives more credentials, I say it too and I say it 'as a mother', because parenting today for someone is fashionable, especially for our Minister of the Interior. I say, therefore, as the mother of two daughters, that I am very concerned, because in this absence of vision of the future it is my daughters and the sons of all, even yours that lose us. What do we say, in fact, to those young people who have to deal with a world that changes at an incredible speed? The technological revolution is the challenge that our children are called to accept. International studies show that the ten professions most required by the labour market did not exist until ten years ago, that almost half of the jobs are destined to be automated in the next fifteen years, that 65% of the children who are going to school today will do in the future a job that does not exist today. And what is your answer, you who are ruling and who have introduced you to the citizens by saying that everything was simple? Your answer is nothing, or rather, your answer is fear, because it is through fear that you have managed to sit there, that fear that you have launched throughout the election campaign and that you are continuing to launch. Instead, we respond in another way, we answer with a clear word: the word is "competence" which is never spoken of, but which instead serve. Skills from school, skills that we have tried to develop between 2013 and 2017, going forward until the conclusion of our Government, when we found ourselves faced with data that, for those who do politics and deal with educational policies and that concern the future, are absolutely data with which to deal: 40% of our unemployment is due to curricula poorly compatible with the demands of the labour market, 50% of the students (data ISTAT) are convinced that what they are studying will not be applicable in the world of work. We tried, between 2013 and 2017, going on until we were in charge, to create interventions that could give answers: the contrast to school dispersal, the 4 billion in education, to foster the potential of school within the same community to eliminate socio-economic inequalities, the birth of that system 06 so fundamental, the project Schools at the center, sport and inclusion, investments in the suburbs. For us the direction was that; we wanted to move forward, we would like to move forward and we will be a stimulus to this, since there really is nothing in the contract. We have laid the foundations for improving innovative training and for trying to respond to the needs that the future demands of us. We have launched the dual system, we have invested in technical and professional institutes, we have implemented the National Digital School Plan, we have tried to believe strongly in school-work alternation. From you, at least, simply a series of struggles compared to everything we have tried to do. On the other hand, we are convinced that it is essential to continue investing in a new professional education chain, by relaunching technical and professional education, in order to enable young people to acquire practical skills which are immediately expendable in the world of work. At the tertiary level, it is necessary to continue the path of strengthening ITS (here too we would like a word from you), which have reached an employment rate of more than 80% and that from our plans, from what we had allocated in a few years, they will be able to develop to become really the privileged training channel for the industrial sector, along with the professionalizing degrees, that is the piece that we have missed. All of this, however, does not interest you, it is felt in the debate in this House. You are more fascinated by the statistics of shameful censuses, to cover your absurd lack of proposals. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from L-SP and M5S Groups. Ironic applause from Senator Airola.]] You are ready to cut, you said it with your Minister for Culture, who, after making a huge slide compared to the 18-year-old bonus (because the data was clear and obviously he didn't read them), was forced to take a step back, saying that maybe they should be checked, because maybe some guys spent it on alcohol. We would like to ask the Minister, to whom we have asked him to present us here, to present us with the data from which the dear Minister of Culture has drawn his information. But, look, the cuts you're planning to make for us, it's all clear. You started with culture, so it means that you started with young people, because the priority for you is to tell a frightening future, a society without work, but full of citizens' incomes, that take away dignity. They take it away, other than I decree dignity, you want to take it away from them! [[Comments from L-SP and M5S Groups. Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u83	Colleagues, the stadium may be allowed to whistle. I'll whistle out of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u84	[[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] Conclude, Senator Malpezzi. MALPEZZI (PD). I'm done. By reinventing a degrowth that exists only in your dreams, which for us are nightmares. We are on the other side, with young people, with our children, teaching them that the best way to predict the future, as Alan Kay says, is to invent it. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u85	She's registered to speak Senator Rivolta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u86	Mr President, before entering into the heart of my speech on the document, I have to take up a few notes, thanks to the words of Senator Malpezzi, to whom I remind you that perhaps she is so accustomed to staying in the rooms of the left to discuss who has the reasons, between one and the other, that she has lost, like all her colleagues, contact with reality. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] And the voters made you understand it with very precise numbers. In politics, numbers are worth, we all know that. Your government, the previous government, unfortunately did not give. Why did the numbers wrong you? Because you have taken away the prospect of families, businesses, all those who have experienced these last years as a great injustice. There is no point in talking about youth unemployment, when it is over 30%. MALPEZZI (PD). He was at 44 with you! RIVOLTA (L-SP). It's not our work. We've been here a few days! [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] You have taken away the perspective of the people, you have taken away the desire and the perspective of all the people of good will who want to be the local administrators, because you have massacred the municipalities [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] And the crazy thing is that you pretend you don't realize it or maybe, even more worrying, you don't realize it! [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups. Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] Anyway, go on like this, because we have things to do. MALPEZZI (PD). Fairies! RIVOLTA (L-SP). Maybe we're not so good at big meetings and big congresses, and we certainly don't have the press and the media on our side, which are superspecial to follow our work. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] We are explaining our plans to the people in the middle of the squares, and I assure you that they are the same squares that make us controllers and that tell us that we must respect what we have promised. [[Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] The pact we made with the country is, therefore, very strong and we feel all the responsibility, aware that it will certainly not be a walk of health, be clear. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups, and from Senator Perosino.]] But just to remind you of what has happened in recent years, let us see, ladies and gentlemen, what is in the 2018 Document of Economics and Finance, which is the result of the work of the previous Government. It is clear that this is a situation of total anomaly compared to the past, but it is the reality that we have to face. From the figures emerging from the DEF 2018 it is clear that the previous Government has not left the country in excellent condition. We can say this by saying that we are not contradicted. From here we must start and accept the challenge, even if we know from now on that it will not be easy. The DEF 2018 basically shows that Italy is the country that grows less in Europe, with a strong tax burden and youth unemployment of over 30%. Of course, GDP in 2017 reached 1.5%, far from 0.9% in 2016, but Italy is still the only country among the big Europeans that remains far from the 2007 levels, while Spain, which has had a crisis even heavier than ours, has already returned, in 2017, to grow at the same pace and Germany, for seven years, recorded a constant 1.8% more. (at 15.10 a.m.) On the other hand, we stand back with Greece, Portugal, Cyprus and Finland. On the fiscal pressure side, despite the previous government's actions, we are still with a tax pressure that exceeds 40%, or better 42.2% of GDP, or, if you really want to include the effect of 80 euros, 41.7%, according to what you can read in the DEF. This means not giving perspective; we need to reduce the tax burden in order to restart this country. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] Is that a bet? No. The other roads of rigour have not borne fruit; they have been bankrupt economic policies. We must try another way, but with great seriousness and as much clarity. As for growth, we are among the last in Europe too: only the Swedes, the Austrians, the Belgians and the French pay the tax on average more money than the Italians, but we also know that they do so in the face of a welfare system that is not even comparable to ours. On the contrary, German, Portuguese and Spanish pay at least 1,000 euros less than taxes per year. Not to mention the British and Irish who, respectively, save more than EUR 2,000 and, even, more than EUR 5,000. The situation is no different for companies which, despite the introduction of IRI and the reduction of IRES, have an average of more than 60% of taxes paid compared to commercial profits. Compared to the eurozone average, Italian companies account for a differential of more than 21 percentage points: no other euro country suffers such a high incidence. As regards youth unemployment, Italy with 32.8% remains the third country with the highest rate after Greece (43.7%) and Spain (36 percent). Turning to public finance indicators, the targets for reducing public debt and the deficit/GDP ratio are still far away: the public debt at the end of 2017 amounted to 2,263 billion euros, which grew by about 44 billion over the last twelve months, amounting, according to the Bank of Italy, to 131.8% of GDP. In Europe, therefore, we are in second place after Greece. The net debt of 2017 amounted to 2.3 percent of GDP because it included the effects of the largest debt of 20 billion, requested in December 2016 for the rescue of banks. In this 2018 DEF it is stated that the trend deficit is estimated at 1.6% for 2018 and a substantial budget balance is expected in 2020-2021, leaving practically the ball to the next Government. And let's not forget that this objective was progressively moved forward during the last legislature: when Renzi settled, in February 2014, it was planned for 2015 and immediately in April he asked for the postponement to 2016. We remember that well. Now, what we contest with those who have preceded us is not so much that we have not achieved the goals, but that we have brought the country - as I said at the beginning of my speech - to kneel in the name of achieving those goals, without even approaching us. The challenge today is played, therefore, inside and outside. Inside, it is necessary to reactivate the circuit of the entrepreneurial fabric of the Country in order to reopen the enterprises and to valorize our strategic assets, to structure a solid and concrete welfare, especially for that increasing group of the population that suffers and does not have enough means to make the health more efficient and the cities safer and livable; to reduce the tax pressure and the inequalities, to create job to the young, to decent conditions, of course, and to assure a decent pension to those who it is time that stop working and start a new phase of life, very often dedicated to the families, to the care of the elderly and the grandchildren; finally, to make investments and modernize the networks and infrastructures. We cannot trade values and political ethics for the numbers that financial speculators like: politics must have the strength to take its place and decide, it must have the strength to take its responsibilities and, if necessary, risk. It is too easy to say that Europe is asking us to do so and to put the responsibilities of uncomfortable decisions on this distant entity. Too simple to justify and entrench oneself behind rules decided in Brussels, as if Italy were only an observer without the right to speak or a passive spectator. Mr President, I would ask you to hand over the text of my speech so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. (15.14) (Followed by Mr Revolta). I conclude by reminding all my colleagues, of majority and opposition, that this Government has started with a great desire for change, with a very precise idea of the model that we want and, in case, already from the first measures we have had a response to the citizens absolutely positive because they feel that they have another kind of dignity not only within our country but above all towards Europe and the other countries that, perhaps, accomplices the previous Governments, have treated us really as part of servitude. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] Many c ongratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Moles. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government - certainly careful - the DEF is being examined with great delay and therefore ends up being a totally useless document. It lacks programmatic data, which the outgoing Government of Gentiloni did not want to insert and the incoming Government of Conte did not compile. As the DEF only takes pictures of the situation under current legislation, today we take note of the unsatisfactory and failing numbers of the management of the center-left from 2013 to 2017 and we do not analyze the numbers of the new Government that, in reality, will limit itself on this occasion to only following a summary transposition of the contract of the so-called Government of change. Let us then try to give some numbers: the DEF, the light of the effects of the fiscal law for 2018 contemplates the increase of indirect taxes in 2019 for 12,4 billion euros and in 2020 for 19,5 billion euros. This is the first point on which the new Government must also give an answer, because we are talking about the beginning of a path that would lead in a three-year period to the increases in VAT to 13 to 25%. The Conte Government must therefore clarify how this path is unblocked, whether with lower charges or with other different taxes or with the cutting of tax deductions currently in place and if the new ingredient will be the so-called tax peace, understood as breaking up: let's call it then for what it is, that is, forgiveness. It must be said that the DEF takes pictures of an Italy that has not yet emerged from a long and dramatic economic and financial crisis. The small economic growth of recent years, far below the European average, is due almost exclusively to external variables. Now, some of the proposed solutions of the new Executive for Growth are based in part on the absurd idea of public spending at all costs and worse would be if the new expenditure were current expenditure, i.e. incompressible, also made in deficit. In addition, someone on blogs even proposed to buy back our public debt by printing lire and reinvesting in euros and so on: luckily, those who now occupy the chair at the MEF used more caution by marginalizing extreme propagandistic positions. It should be remembered that from 2011 to 2017 the impact of public debt on gross domestic product has increased from 121 percent to 131.8% not only because GDP has grown little but because at the same time the public debt has risen, now well beyond 2,300 billion euros. Structural reforms have been lacking in the main sectors and the consequence is that the evolution of GDP in current legislation is expected to slow down since next year because it does not benefit from any structural or countercyclical measures of the outgoing Government. Moreover, in recent years there has been no significant recovery in terms of growth, employment, industrial production, export, domestic demand and confidence. Well, today, trust must also return to investors. What the new Government should do is the exact opposite of what has done the outgoing one: it is necessary to avoid the use of public resources being fragmented and unable to achieve any objective, it is necessary to use public investment to create a flywheel with private ones that triggers real growth multipliers and trigger a virtuous economic circle and not continue with the non-quality public expenditure, which ends up fueling the already existing waste. Efforts must be concentrated on the main objective - economic growth - the only one that brings employment, other than citizenship income! Structural reforms and simplification have to be put in place, which have been lacking in the last parliamentary term. Public expenditure consists of two parts: that the amount of which can be changed by government decisions to unchanged legislation, the other - by far the largest - consisting of those expenditures which cannot be changed to unchanged legislation. The first is done by maneuvers, the second by reforms. Since the second is by far the largest, then not maneuvers, but yes reforms, major reforms to bring spending back to a level compatible with growth: reform of large automatic expenses and flat tax. Unfortunately, there is still no trace of this. We'll see about that. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u88	Senator Pesco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u89	Mr President, the document on economics and finance does nothing but trace the enclosure within which Parliament and the Government must stand, that is, the resources necessary and useful to be able to cope with the actions that we must absolutely put in place in order to restart our country. The blanket is short, the debt that we can implement is really little for both this year and next year, so there are few resources available. That is why we must concentrate absolutely on demining the safeguard clauses on VAT, which would really tend to impoverish us even more, because we know very well that reducing consumption would also reduce GDP and thus also the possibilities to cope with new investments. Precisely on investments we must try to concentrate, because productive investments are needed to give work, so those on the green economy, on light infrastructure, on all those things that can help our country to succeed in creating work are all investments that must be made. Unfortunately the resources are few and we know very well, so we find alternative systems, maybe involving even the private ones, we find the right forms to involve them, focusing perhaps on tax deductions, but we try to do everything we can to get our country back on track. Where do we start? We must start with those who are worse: at the moment there are very high numbers of families and businesses that are not well done. I am referring first of all to those companies that have remained outside the credit circuit. Well, at this time too many businesses and entrepreneurs are out, can't access credit and can't leave with a new company, can't buy the necessary means to restart their company. These people and companies must be helped. At the same time, there are families with a single percetter of income who have been out of work, family in disarray, who are losing their homes, who are really in trouble. Well, we need to focus on these people. So, on the one hand, for businesses, we find new resources and appropriations for accessing these businesses to credit and, on the other hand, we need to ensure that the most disadvantaged families have a lifeline called citizenship income. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I repeat: there are not many resources. We need to start working on zero-cost measures. On citizenship income, for example, we could do a lot of things if we were to focus immediately on employment centres. We study new procedures, new strategies, new processes so that those who turn to employment centres can find concrete answers. We must not just focus on the cross-fertilisation of supply and demand, which is certainly one of the most important activities of employment centres, but we must give new ideas, some of which we have already written in the proposal on citizenship income: within employment centres we can create jobs, we can make people meet and understand what their attitudes, their skills, their specialties are. Let's meet them, give them incentives, find the right people and with the skills to create business within the employment centers. We can do this, and we really need to focus on this. At the same time, there is a nation that - excuse me - has been too neglected in recent years. There are abandoned centres, natural resources to exploit, an artistic heritage that has been abandoned and we must do a lot about this and why not try to do so by involving, perhaps, these people who are looking for work? We need to focus on this. However, I would like to return to another subject. I told you earlier about banks and companies that are in difficulty because they are unable to access credit. Well, we are in this situation for several reasons, one of all is the European regulations that have gradually become more stringent, year after year. I read, an hour ago, good news: it seems that the ECB is accepting compromises. On the famous decrees not collected, on the famous sufferings, on the famous NPLs, the ECB said: perhaps the countries with slower justice may have more years to be able to cash in these sufferings. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] It is a good result that someone in Europe is finally doing this, because nothing has been done in Europe for five years! We must help our representatives in Europe, make them understand that they must develop relations with other countries, find allies to go and beat their fists on the table properly, to make us understand and make us understand that our judicial and banking system and our public administration are not up to being able to take out - let me say this - from today to tomorrow all the suffering that our banks have in their belly. If we focus on that, the banks will continue to sell these sufferings to 10, 12 or 15 percent and will come - in fact they have already arrived - the international institutional investors who buy at this figure and who loses it? It is not only the owners who, seeing their credit sold at 10%, will have to return 100% to the bank, but the same banks, which sell at 10% and also penalize their shareholders, because 90% must put the bank. So in the end, no one gets it, except speculation. This is the prayer I address to the Government: Let's focus; We also find alternative systems in this case. We know that it was, unfortunately, approved two years ago, a decree speeding up judicial auctions; on this we have written something in the contract, but something more could be done. We are looking for ways to give families and companies a little more time to try to recover this debt they owe to banks. On the other hand, we are looking for a lifeline: why not think of a fund that helps these people when they are blameless debtors? Let's think of a fund that can refinance these people. We would benefit not only citizens and businesses, but also the banking system. We need to implement things like that. President, I am not long. It's important to focus on zero-cost measures. We do something for our country. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u90	The debate is closed. I would like to inform my colleagues who have received the Presidency and who are distributing motions for resolutions No 1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators No 2, tabled by Senators Romeo and Patuanelli, No 3, tabled by Senator Bertacco and other Senators, No 4, tabled by Senator Bernini and other Senators, and No 5, tabled by Senator Marcucci and other Senators. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u91	Mr President, in this brief reply I would like to start with a methodological note. He is reprimanded to the Government, supported by the majority to which I belong, for not having presented his DEF. I wonder how this could be technically possible: if the outgoing Government had proposed a programmatic scenario in its DEF, perhaps it would have been possible to discuss it in the special Commission and, perhaps, we would have arrived here with content. I would like to remind you that the government that formed is the result of a political mediation process that took a lot of time for reasons we know and that it is not appropriate here to remember. A process of political mediation between two forces that initially did not think to go to the government together and that had some very important points of disagreement, but that, with a constructive spirit and with a sense of responsibility, appreciating themselves in the established dialogue and learning to know each other, have finally arrived at a proposal. This too, of course, prevented them from coming with a DEF in their pockets to subtract from that of the Government and put it in its place to discuss it in the Chamber. This wasn't technically possible. It is part of normal parliamentary tactical strategies, but now we want to move on. And to move forward, I would like to say that it seems to me that discussing the tendency, that is what is in the DEF, is to alarm the country: in reality, it is to give a signal of true change, that is, to get out of the logic of governments in recent years, the logic of announcements, to move to a logic of realism. I would like to remind you that in its debut DEF, that of 2014, the outgoing Government had promised for the following years a growth of 1.38 per cent on the basis of the measures it intended to adopt. Growth, on the other hand, was 0.85%, almost half a point less. Well, we have to deal with reality. I was also struck by the observation that Italy is a strange country because it is a country in which we quarrel over data. On the data there is a quarrel, because occasionally they are presented in subtlely instrumental way. What do I mean? Simply, let's think about the nice fake news - today we would say so - of the million jobs, which in some way unite, albeit at different times, the two main parties of our current opposition. [[Applause from the LS-P and M5S groups.]] In version 2.0, that is what we call the renziana version, this fake news is based on a straight point, that is, on the use of a criterion not exactly adequate for the measurement of employment: the working positions instead of the hours worked. If the theme is relevant, I refer to the analysis of Guzzi and Lisciandro published in "Lavoice.info" of 21 November 2017: The employed go up, the hours worked no. [[Applause from the LS-P and M5S Groups]] "Lavoice.info" is still a very interesting point of reference, even if it is deprived of authoritative signatures. I agree with Mrs Malpezzi: of course, these are the data with which to deal, that is, as Mrs Rivolta pointed out, they would have been given that you should have dealt with. [[Applause from the LS-P and M5S groups.]] By changing the verbal mode, the result changes. If we came back to rule, it's because you couldn't. If we fail too, you will go back to governing you and I wish you constructively in the interest of the country, because if you do better than us, that's okay. I've heard of an impressive infrastructure heritage and resources. Forgive me, after trying for years to animate the debate on the left, that is among the optimized, then I became a bieco populist. Let me be populist: of these huge infrastructure resources I have to tell you that in my quake college nobody noticed, so there is something that doesn't work. [[Applause from the LS-P and M5S groups.]] What they noticed in my college - a college that I have particularly in my heart because only when I happened there I managed to guarantee a minimum freedom to my elaboration and to my voice - is that public investment fell from 54 billion to 2009 to 33 billion in 2017, as it has been re-enacted several times by the colleagues of the benches of the right, paradoxical perhaps, according to a certain logic, but that must be greeted, because somewhere there is someone who looks at the data and this is very important. About the processes of planning reform, in short, I a little 'Italy I turned it: I meet only administrators who complain about the code of contracts. There will also have been resources, so maybe investment, if there had not been these reforms would have been less than 100 billion - so I understand, in this strange arithmetic - but one thing is certain: you can't unlock them. So, what's the difference? I would like to make a note of method, because the questions of detail are many: here there is a problem of subalternity to a foreign model. I was struck by my colleague, Mr Siclari, when he said that Germany has grown because it has engaged the East of the country. Reading the text "Anschluss" by Vladimiro Jacche, the President of the ERC, one of the bodies to which the Parliamentary Budget Office addresses for the validation of forecasts (so I think it has a minimum of authority), I read a different story and history is that the per capita income of the West today is almost 30% more than that of the East in Germany. [[Applause from the LS-P and M5S groups.]] The territorial gap is much smaller than the Italian one, which has reached almost 40% with the crisis, but it indicates a process of convergence that is largely incomplete and that has also stopped, despite the efforts of the media and the German Government itself to hide this reality. So, I'm sorry, I don't want to sound anti-German, but this is about not idolizing false models: in terms of territorial cohesion, as well as diesel engines, we have nothing to learn from our German brothers! [[Applause from the LS-P, M5S and FdI Groups]] ). What we love and wish these words were meant for what they are: they are not words of anti-German prejudice, they are words of realism and solidarity with the German people, who are the first victims of these political models. Those who idolize Germany should read the press. "Deutsche Welle" in November 2017 tells us about a country where, despite growing GDP, poverty also grows and this means a very simple and clear thing, that is, that even there increases inequality in a thrilling way. Then, if inequality also grows from us, we must ask ourselves if it is not precisely because we have prostrated ourselves, with a cultural subalternity that humiliates our country, to models that fatally lead to such results. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] We need to talk about this here. The debate had to be opened here. Unfortunately in my previous activity, that of intellectual - ambitious word - left - very ambitious word - [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups and Senator Ruspandini]] I had to experience the two subalternities of the left: that of the left left of the left, so if one thing is mentioned by Salvini, it cannot be talked about because it is a theme of Salvini. And I am referring to the issue of immigration, on which you wanted to take irrational positions that have penalized you. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups and Senator Ruspandini]] Then there is the subalternity of the left of government, which continued for years to tell us that the rules were stupid, but we had to observe them to be credible and then to be able to renegotiate them. That's not how it works! It is a heartfelt invitation which I address and which I hope will also be accepted by the current Government. If the rules are irrational, they weaken the country and a weaker country has less bargaining power. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] It negotiates taking care to get to the table with non-punitive force ratios. In other words, I do not want my words to be interpreted in the sense of anti-European declarations, because they are not, that is not the point. The point is that Europe will never be an effective forum for the mediation of national interests if the latter are not expressed with competence and authority, and this is in the interests of the European project itself. It does not work in the interests of the European project who denies that national interests exist in the name of a fantastic European interest or who deduces national interests to a fascist remnant of war. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups and Senator De Bertoldi.]] That's not how it works. Another aspect to which I suppose we need to be careful is to look at reality in the face, and in terms not only of forecasting, but also of political choices. I have heard quite general tones, salvific reforms: growth depends on reforms. Wait a minute. Reforms aren't all the same. Those on the European agenda - as has been clearly pointed out by several interventions - go in the direction of wage deflation, let us call it a reduction in labour costs. In essence, if the reduction of the cost of labor happens - as is necessarily the case - through a reduction of the rights - as has also been mentioned on that side - (Senator Bagnai indicates the benches to the right of the President), this does not have positive effects on the productivity and on the growth of the Country. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] And this depends on a trivial fact, on which we should reflect: if an entrepreneur cuts wages, it becomes more competitive; but if all entrepreneurs cut wages, the domestic demand of the country dies and, therefore, we go then to the pursuit of foreign demand, that is, basically we put ourselves in the condition of hoping that the Lord sends us good and that in the rest of the world there is no recession, otherwise the castle of cards, the castle of reforms falls. These are elements that I wanted to bring to the attention of a debate that did not talk - as we were accused of - about concrete measures, because a clever parliamentary tactic was adopted to prevent us from talking about such measures in fact. I would also be careful in the overall assessment that emerges when it comes to the need to reform because the world is different today. The radical diversity of the world has been evoked. Personally I found the intervention of Minister Di Maio very appreciated when he said no - one of the many not that this Government is saying with reason seen in different locations - in particular to a large multinational of that economy that is called smart, where riders make food delivery, and that is basically garages of underpaid shop. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] : Pronouncing a no has brought out a rather interesting fact. The business model of the smart multinationals is quite banal: it is that of the caporalate and, that is, underpaying the workers. This is not the spirit with which the Italian small and medium-sized enterprise has built its own model of development and its own model of industrial relations [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] Let us look, therefore, with greater interest at our experiences. We try to protect them and also try to impose the respect of a minimum of conditions of decency on those who come from outside to propose to us his recipes or to impose on us his political agenda. This is also the case: the no-said to a certain ship is also the refusal to see a political agenda imposed by non-governmental organisations acting as such outside the control of a normal democratic process. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] It seems to me that these are signs of change. Then, later, if you want the tables - you will excuse us, because I suppose that neither we as parliamentarians nor the Government had the opportunity to present a resolution of six hundred pages with forty tables - those will come with the Update Note to the DEF. We'll talk about it. Surely you won't like them, and maybe they won't, and maybe we will. Anyway, we'll talk about it. In the meantime, however, let us establish a fact. This Government is already expressing a change; it is affirming, with composure but also with determination, the principle that the Italian interest must be defended in the interests of Europe. We are tired of the magical thought that has so far governed relations with Europe, the one that says that we can do good by doing the harm of the parties and, in particular, of the part in which we live. [[Applause from the L-SP, M5S and FdI Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u92	Colleagues, I would reserve the enthusiasm for the next phase of final voting and not just for the replica phase, to be scaramantic. I call the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Professor Tria, to whom I would ask you to indicate what motion for a resolution you intend to accept on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u93	The Government accepts the motion for a resolution No 2 by Senators Romeo and Patuanelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u94	The Government has therefore declared that it accepts motion for a resolution No 2. It is therefore now time for one hour to table any amendments to this proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u97	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I would simply like to stress the need to consider any amendments which, reasonably, the Groups have the possibility of submitting to the majority resolution which has just received the favourable opinion from Minister Tria. Of course, we do not want to upset the practice and, therefore, let the time lapse during the explanations of vote. We would ask, however, at the end of the explanations of vote, for a reasonable time (reasonably a quarter of an hour) to allow us to check whether other political forces have also tabled amendments and, if so, to assess their content, since they are commitments to the Government on such an important document.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u98	The Presidency, precisely because it believes that it is also right to set working hours for all senators, intends to propose, during the one-hour period from now on, the beginning of explanations of vote. Then, by established practice, we move on to the possible illustration of the amendments, to the vote of the amendments and to the final vote. I know that your proposal is different, Senator Ferrari, but I, as a Presidency, am in favour of a proposal which, as is customary, provides for a sequential order, without interrupting the work of this House. I think, by the way, we've had enough of interruptions in the last few days. Since we have decided to start and finish the work today, the Presidency proposes that we should reach the vote on the amendments which should reasonably take place at around 17.05-17.10. I therefore put to the vote the proposal put forward by the Presidency. It's approved. Please, Minister Tria, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as has been mentioned here several times, the Economic and Financial Document to which the resolutions under discussion today refer only sets out the framework for existing legislation and has been forwarded to Parliament by the previous Government. As a result, the European Council and the European Commission have been sent versions to existing legislation of the DEF Section I Stability Programme and the Section III National Reform Programme. It will now be the current Commission that prepares the policy framework and forwards it to Parliament in September and then to the European institutions in October. The trend macroeconomic framework - and let me not repeat the figures, which have been widely discussed all morning - has been validated at the time by the Parliamentary Budget Office. This is a moderate growth scenario that the economic policy of the coming years will have the task of strengthening. It is also a macroeconomic framework which suffers from partly outdated information. The macroeconomic policy framework presented by the Government in September will take account of economic policy choices, as well as the latest developments in the international and national economic situation. In this respect, it should be stressed that the protectionist tensions that have emerged in recent months have already slowed down the strong growth of international trade recorded in 2017 and cooled the confidence of European and Asian manufacturing companies. In Italy, this year, GDP growth continued in the first quarter, but at a lower rate of economic growth and trend than the average of 2017 and also in the euro area, GDP in the first quarter decelerated. Italy's real GDP growth in the second quarter is currently forecast in line with the pace recorded in the first three months of the year: this means that the achievement of the average growth projected in the DEF for 2018 - the DEF that has been presented to this Parliament - requires an acceleration in the second half of the year. With regard to 2019 and the following years, I believe that the growth rates foreseen in the DEF under current legislation are still within our reach, but they require an adequate economic policy strategy and action: in other words, there are no growth rates that we can consider trending. As far as public finance is concerned, the DEF 2018 in current legislation provides for a decline in net debt - also this one has been widely discussed here - and then falls to 0.8 in the next year and achieve a balanced budget in 2020. According to this evolution of the deficit, the debt-to-GDP ratio would start a clear downward path. Budgetary consolidation and a decreasing dynamics of the debt-to-GDP ratio remain objectives of the Government, because they are necessary conditions to maintain and strengthen the confidence of the financial markets; confidence that is indispensable for the protection of our public finances, the savings of the Italians, as well as for the stability of growth. The increase in interest rates on public debt in recent weeks has been largely a physiological consequence of a phase of observation of a political transition, the positive solution of which has already had the first positive effects. In the interest of the country it is the government's task and intention to act in such a way as to prevent any increase in public finance. As already mentioned, the programmatic version of the DEF 2018 will be presented in September. I am therefore not yet able to explain to you the macroeconomic and public finance numbers related to the new programming framework being developed. However, allow me to explain to you the economic context we are facing and the economic policy lines that will inform the government's choices. The dramatic crisis that started ten years ago, which hit the country, losing up to 9% of gross domestic product, has fallen on an economy that suffered and suffers from too many years of significant structural problems. Incomplete and inadequate governance of the eurozone has aggravated the impact of the financial crisis, affecting the productive and social fabric. After ten years we are still far from pre-crisis levels, unlike almost all other euro area member countries. Industrial production is 17 percentage points below the level reached in 2008; the unemployment rate is more than 5 points above the pre-crisis minimum point; inequality has increased considerably and I would like to point out that today there is a much lower number of hours worked than ten years ago at a given level of employment. Debt in relation to GDP has risen less than in other countries, but remains very high. The general figure is that the growth rate of the Italian economy has remained significantly and constantly below the European average. The increases and decreases in our growth rate, as well as the alternation of its negative or positive sign, of which we have heard a great deal, have substantially, in the post-crisis years to date, corresponded to changes in the European economy, but the negative gap has remained substantially constant over the years. The Government's objective and priorities are therefore to increase the potential growth rate of the economy and close the growth gap. We need to increase the competitiveness of our production system and the dynamics of productivity. The strategy to achieve these objectives requires moving on two fronts: on the one hand implementing the structural reforms envisaged in the government programme; on the other hand, activating an endogenous stimulus of growth so as not to be limited to passively to the positive or negative shocks coming from the international economic situation. This endogenous stimulus must be the revival of public investment which has continued to decrease even in recent years despite the budgetary flexibility negotiated with the European Commission. On the grounds of this disappointing result I will return shortly, because they will be at the center of the first actions of Government. However, allow me to say immediately that tangible and intangible public investment will have to be the key to achieving the most growth that will reconcile the implementation of the structural reform programme announced by the Government with a public finance framework consistent with the objective of progressively decreasing the debt-to-GDP ratio on which the Government has committed itself. Public investment has a positive and significant impact on short-term aggregate demand, as well as on the potential of the economy, and I would emphasise its impact on the potential of the economy. Moreover, in these macroeconomic phases, it is reasonable to assume that investments have a particularly high multiplier, which would indirectly finance part of the budgetary costs also due to the positive effects on private investment. The Government is therefore determined to reverse the decline in public investment since the beginning of the crisis, thereby reversing the deterioration in the composition of budgetary policy that has seen, even in recent years, favour current expenditure at the expense of capital expenditure. I would also like to say that when it comes to growth it is good to qualify it: we are talking about inclusive and fair growth. Economic growth is not always so. It must be inclusive and fair by looking at both present and younger generations in particular and future generations. Aiming at the endogenous stimulus to growth based on public and private investment driven by the former means addressing the issue of today's employment and at the same time building an additional productive capacity that will benefit the work of future generations. This is linked to the reasons why we must maintain a path of reducing our debt and above all avoid further debt to finance current expenditure: a lower level of public debt reduces interest expenditure, freeing up budgetary margin to strengthen growth and social inclusion. In particular, I stress that the financial markets respond mainly to perceived debt dynamics, rather than to its level, albeit high. A public finance programme that places debt on a downward path would reduce the yields that the Treasury pays on our sovereign bonds. The difference can also be very significant. These considerations become even more important in the light of the proposed normalization of monetary policy. In conclusion, the maintenance of the debt reduction commitment is a condition of financial stability essential to the fruitful operation of our production system and our credit system. It will also be a condition of strength to claim, not only for Italy, but for the whole of Europe, a decisive turning point that allows us to consider investment expenditure differently from current expenditure, and this also for the purposes of debt objectives. This is a mature European breakthrough which must lead to a significant European investment plan for which Italy has always been a promoter. To the economic and financial reasons described so far, in support of the objective of public finance, I would also like to add reasons for equity and above all for intergenerational equity: the debt that has oppressed the new generations for several decades, especially the generation of millennials, a debt that severely hinders an increase in their income, is a debt that goes back to the behaviour of my generation, that is to say of several previous generations, and I am aware of it. An integral part of the macroeconomic strategy outlined and an essential condition for its viability is the progressive and planned implementation of the structural reforms announced in the government programme: these reforms concern the tax system, the pension system and the welfare system and on which extensive information has been given by the President-in-Office of the Council in this House. For my part, I would like to point out that the simplification of the tax system and the progressive reduction of the tax burden, planned in line with a consistent development of public expenditure, have long been considered as an essential part of the creation of a pro-growth environment and in line with the general recommendations made several times by the OECD and the European Commission. I would also like to point out that guaranteeing a decent income to those who are temporarily unemployed or who, for various reasons, have difficulties in entering or returning to employment is an essential condition in order to allow, within a framework of social stability, those necessary processes of technological innovation and productive restructuring dictated by the challenges of scientific progress and environmental protection. We all know, moreover, that the maintenance of open markets is linked to the ability of welfare systems to face its complex implications. A central role in this strategy will be the income of citizenship, aimed at combating the pockets of poverty present in Italy through interventions that are not welfare, but aimed at integration into the labour market. Among the structural reforms that will have a crucial impact on the economic strategy outlined here I would like to call for immediate and decisive action to remove the obstacles that have so far prevented the effective translation into action of the programmes for relaunching public investment, in quantitative terms as well as qualitative. Unfortunately, in recent years these obstacles have not only not been removed, but have been strengthened and - let me say - even in a sometimes reckless way. The Government is aware that the greatest obstacles to public investment expenditure come not from the lack of financial resources, but from the loss of the technical and design skills of the public administrations, from the often difficult interaction between the administrations, both central and territorial, and from the unwanted effects of the recent code of contracts. A task force will be set up within the Government, with the aim of addressing these issues quickly and organically. The interventions relating to structural reforms, on which the Government is engaged on both the fiscal and the public expenditure side, will have to be adequately covered. It will be the task of the public finance policy framework, which we will present in September, to identify the appropriate cover within the overall strategy of growth and public finance outlined above. Each reform proposal will be carefully structured in view of its effects on growth, equity and the short- and long-term dynamics of public finances. Central part of the government's economic policy strategy is - as already pointed out - the dynamics of net debt and public debt. The trend scenario of net debt, as presented in the DEF that you have examined, will be the subject of serious reflection in the preparation of the policy framework, in close collaboration with the European Commission and in compliance with European commitments and Italian legislation. It will identify the path most appropriate to the current economic environment and to the pursuit of the target of containment and reduction of the debt-to-GDP ratio. Our action in Europe must be directed towards a profound reform of the economic institutions that govern the eurozone. This is not the place to go into this issue, but let me stress the serious shortcomings that characterize the current European institutional balance. The euro area has a single monetary policy with limited objectives, which does not correspond to a budgetary capacity capable of exploiting economies of scale at European level and dealing with particularly strong macroeconomic shocks, including those of an asymmetric nature between Member States. The system of budgetary rules does not favour expenditure on public investment, while it allows persistent current account imbalances detrimental to the operation of the whole area. In general, I believe that there are clear problems in terms of the necessary coordination of monetary policy with budgetary policies. In short, the economic architecture that governs the common currency area needs to be directed towards growth and convergence; monetary policy would benefit, which could achieve its inflation target more easily and less distorted, which in turn would favour a virtuous evolution of the debt-to-GDP ratio. I am convinced that this reform strategy would benefit both our country and the whole eurozone. In conclusion, the policy framework that the Government will transmit to the Parliament in the Update Note to the DEF 2018 will be composed of public finance choices and the programmatic version of the National Reform Programme. Following the policy lines outlined by the President of the Council, it will be possible to reconcile growth and employment with debt sustainability. In addition, we plan to present the policy scenarios for a first set of fair and sustainable welfare indicators. Italy is the first country that will give itself objectives in issues of equity, education, health, inclusion of the labour market, environment, security and effectiveness of civil justice. This is an ambitious innovation, as it seeks to stimulate an economic and social policy that is not focused solely on GDP. The stimulus of Parliament and the media will be crucial to bring this issue to the attention of citizens in an informed and constructive manner. For its part, the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the other central administrations involved will have to strengthen their technical skills in areas that have hitherto been largely unexplored. Thank you for your attention and for your comments during this debate. For my part, I am committed to being always open to a constructive confrontation with Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups and Senator Pittella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u100	We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u103	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, this DEF is above all the photograph of a country that has been taken out of the crisis. Italy has grown again; the deficit reduction targets have been met; more than one million new jobs have been created. This must be acknowledged by previous governments which have done an important and unpredicted job and this work must not be wasted. On the horizon we can see several critical issues: international conflicts and tensions, unknowns related to trade duties, the increase in Fed rates. Today Italy pays €63 billion in debt interest only each year, which will probably increase with the conclusion of the support measures of the European Central Bank. Let the government move, then, with caution, not frustrating what has been done on the ground of stability and growth. Of course, the growth of these years has been below the European average. It is a problem that has ancient roots: since 1995 Italy has grown by 6.3 compared to 38 percent of other European countries. The causes are well described in the recommendation that the Union sent to Italy on 23 May. It's not just the debt that weighs on the country. There are above all the duration of the processes; the weight of corruption; restrictions on competition and the development of competitiveness; the marginality of women in the labour market. And then there are low spending on research and innovation; digital skills and infrastructure. These are the reasons why the path of reform, which has already been taken in recent years, must be pursued with ever greater determination. In the short term, the priority must be the sterilization of safeguard clauses in order to prevent the increase in VAT. We believe that it is essential to maintain commitments at European level for debt reduction. On this we appreciated the words of Minister Tria. Our hope is that, already at the next summit in Luxembourg, good news can come about the granting of new margins of flexibility by Europe. It is an important match, as is the 2020-2027 European budget. In the next budget law, I would like to see that gender balance part maintained: it is an interesting innovation with a view to paying attention to equal opportunities. On the economic measures outlined in these days, we are waiting to hear about the measures and their financial cover. First we want to understand, and we want to do it on the substance of the issues. For all these reasons, I declare our Group's abstention vote. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u106	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I have to say that I have found the debate, as well as, to be honest, the rapporteur's replies - who is not here at the moment and I regret it, because I wanted to say a few things to him - and the Minister, almost surreal in some ways. Finally, I would like to refer to the rapporteur, Mr Bagnai, to an intervention which we can also share in many parts of the House, but we do not understand how the programmatic arrangement can be reconciled with the majority resolution which the Government has just accepted, for a very simple reason. We believe that the issues before our eyes - and this, of course, also concerns those who ruled until a few months ago - are not simple. The conditions in which the country is located, President, are certainly not in a good state from the point of view of economic and social sustainability. I do not want to recall the data that my colleague Mr La Forgia has already presented in his speech, but some things are very clear, as far as we are concerned. Italy continues to have performance equal to half the average of the eurozone and the situation of the country in the field of work, for example - here are the issues that we are most concerned about - which is also the result of the so-called structural reforms, has seen confirmed for 2017, as well as for 2018, a constant precariousness of the job. As always, fixed-term contracts have grown and contracts have fallen indefinitely. I would also like to point out that all the incentives that have been used in the last parliamentary term for increasing protections (about 20 billion) have had an absolutely non-existent impact, ephemeral in terms of employment. Even in recent hearings the CNEL has again told us that half of the contracts resulting from the facilitations provided by the jobs act have virtually disappeared and the undeclared work has increased further. Let's not talk about youth employment. The data released yesterday on young people who do not study and do not work is really devastating. So we found ourselves in a debate in which on the one hand someone claimed to have left the Bengodi country, and on the other (the rapporteur, Senator Bagnai, has returned to the Chamber) a programmatic exhibition of which I am surprised. So I wonder why, Senator Bagnai, you have not indicated that you are voting in favour of our resolution? I ask that because the majority is not, in my opinion, exactly in line with what you have said. Another point to which the Minister referred is the question of public investment. The figure for public investment is very heavy, well below the pre-crisis rate. After the 2016 decrease, a new decline of 6.2 is expected in 2017 so investment expenditure in 2020 is expected to be still lower than in 2013. The BES indicators indicate the worsening of inequalities. In the face of a situation like this, it is clear to all, (we have already said this at the time of an explanation of vote on the government's confidence), that it is necessary to force, reasonable but certainly forced, on the policies of rigour and European rules. Of this, however, there is absolutely no trace in the majority resolution, on the contrary, there is exactly the opposite because in point c) of the commitment of the majority resolution, after all that has happened (Savona vs. Savona, Europe vs. Europe), it is written: "to identify the measures to be taken in 2018 in compliance with the budget balances and to reconsider in a short time the public finance framework in compliance with the European commitments regarding the fiscal balances 2019-2021". So also on the matter of safeguard clauses, do a sterilization operation that, in the end, will be compensated by spending cuts, with everything that this entails from the point of view of the recessive effect. In fact, if you keep saying in words that we have to change the European rules, that we have to force them, and then in the resolution you write something else, you are obviously adopting a new technique: on the one hand you continue to make propaganda in this House and on the other hand there is a different reality. You see - and I address the Minister, the rapporteur and colleagues in the majority - no one expected you to do the trend charts, tables and books all over again, but the resolution should have contained precise commitments, more consistent with what you said and repeated in your speeches. It was the least we expected. Then we will see the Update Notes, but we cannot continue to declaim in a certain way, to make statements as if we continue the election campaign when then the resolutions present an absolutely different picture. That is why I say to Senator Bagnai that perhaps it would have been better to look at our resolution rather than that of the majority. We are making clear and precise proposals, these are clear and reasonable bindings of European rules because, as far as the safeguard clauses are concerned, we are proposing to compensate them with a deficit of 2% of GDP for the three-year period 2019-2021 so as to have additional resources (0.5 per cent of GDP, not even so much, in 2019 and 1% of GDP for 2020 and 2021) for a three-year investment programme; because we must put public investment back into play. That is also how private investment can be resumed, but resources must be found. If you do the other operation again the resources will not be there. The investment plan that we propose (for the truth it has been three years that we propose unheard of) concerns healthy and quality public investments, a green new deal that invests in the territory, care, environment and innovation. Health policies must be revived: the data of inequality are not only those on poverty, on which we must also act quickly, but also those of the 11-12 million people who have given up treatment. (16.20) (Followed by Mr De PETRIS). It must therefore be prevented that, once again, perhaps even in order to sterilize VAT, health expenditure should be cut. It must be brought to a level not lower than 6,6. It is therefore clear that a modification of the fiscal compact is necessary, otherwise what you say in words cannot be achieved at all. Among other things, investment programmes should be concentrated at least 45% in the Mezzogiorno. We also need to invest in research, universities, health services. We propose that the other resources be found through the strengthening of a serious web tax, through the contrast to the evasion (other than flat tax). We have said this and we repeat it once again: the rules must be enforced for investment, not to cover the holes of the flat tax. All these commitments, which were feasible for us and which could be included in your motion for a resolution, we have not found any trace, or indeed the opposite. For this reason, the Senators of Liberi and Equal will vote against the majority's motion for a resolution. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u109	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this House, in the debate on trust, we have qualified ourselves as a proactive opposition, because we would like to make some of our proposals. But what proposals must we make, Senator Bagnai? The rapporteur, first at the stage of the report, then at the time of reply, said things, even in a warm way, that we fully agree, for example with regard to the trend framework which is profoundly modified in relation to what is presented to us by the previous Government's document on economics and finance, on the European context (we think only of the decisions of the European Central Bank), on the international context (think of the US tariff policy or their new sanctioning policy towards our partners), on the world growth and growth of world trade that has stopped, on the rise in oil prices compared to last year, that some consequence on the Italian production system has it. Too bad that there is none of this in the majority motion for a resolution. Also with regard to the premises, reference is made in two lines to the fact that ISTAT points to the risk of overestimate of growth, without explaining the consequences of this overestimate, nor that the European Commission estimates a structural balance much worse than the Economic and Financial Document. It is only mentioned, Senator Bagnai, this structurally different aspect of the context in which you will have to and will have to face, as a country, economic conditions. Among other things, Senator Bagnai, he gave us a very good example when he spoke about Germany: he told us that we should not take examples or lessons from the Germans. Yesterday the President of the Council of Ministers was received by Angela Merkel and said that Italy must take lessons from Germany with regard to employment offices. I seem to notice a slight difference with what you say. We move from an Italy that does not need lessons from Germany to an Italy that yesterday - not a month ago - the President of the Council said that it must take lessons from Germany, among other things asking the Chancellor Merkel European funds for the fight against poverty and illustrating, rightly, a real condition: over five million poor, of which almost three million turn to the structures of Caritas in order to survive. But it is not a good figure to say that we are a country of poor people and that we need the European Union to make up for our poverty. That is not exactly what you have illustrated. Even more serious is what the minister of the Tria economy has said in reference to the action of Italy. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you - and I appeal to my colleagues in the majority - to read the premises and the arrangements of the resolution. I read it with you. The Government's commitment is to present this plan in September. We'll see about that in September. More than a hundred days have passed since the elections, more than sixty days since you started negotiations for the government contract; it will be another hundred days until September and we will be two hundred days in a very serious international context and with a particularly heavy economic situation in Italy. Usually the governments - I remember the government of 2001 - in a hundred days from the elections approve the most important measures of the legislature. You postpone them for another hundred days. In the second commitment, talk about the sterilization of VAT. We all said that, but don't talk about a commitment to sterilization, Minister Treu, Tria. It could be Treu, Tria or Padoan, it's the same thing. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Talk about disabling safeguard clauses. Favoring does not mean a precise commitment; it means favoring, that is, hoping to make it. And don't say how you do it, give no indication of how you will do it. To the third commitment - I am quoting the commitments because these are the ones that we must and must vote on, not the words, but the acts - it is basically written that, in compliance with the public finance framework and the European commitments, you plan to revise the budgetary balances. I didn't quite understand why someone in the majority, even in the House, said that this means postponing by a year, as the Gentiloni Government did. Silveri, in full continuity and without it emerging anything strange with the governments of the left, the balance of the budget, from 2020 to 2021. Minister Tria denied it. Then how should the third commitment be read? Is the balance of the budget postponed by one year, as all the governments of the left have done, year after year, in full continuity with Padoan, or is it not? The fourth commitment is even more beautiful for you to postpone the debate to before the European Council to give guidance to the government. But you, Minister, told us something else far more important than not in here. You have focused your entire speech on something that we fully agree with and which is the basis of our resolution. You have told us here that four basic things need to be done, including focusing on growth with structural reforms. Which ones? Was this the place to give priority or not? Moreover, the central topic of his intervention, repeated and proclaimed in several parts from the beginning to the end, was the revival of tangible and intangible public investment. But that doesn't say in the program contract. You didn't write it because it came later, but in the program contract I don't see a big plan for tangible and intangible public investment, for example, for infrastructure. They're even questioned. Something's wrong. You yourself also tell us something fundamental, namely that you will fight in Europe for tangible and intangible infrastructure investments to be calculated outside of current expenditure, out of deficit, which we have always shared. But this is not in the majority resolution. So you focus your speech on a key issue for the policy and future of the nation and its relations with the European Union and then the majority does not include it among the commitments? I don't understand. But how many languages do you speak? The rapporteur's language, which outlines a rightly worrying picture of the international and European situation that weighs on our country and which calls for structural interventions; the Minister's language, which says that the center of government action in the coming weeks - I assume from the next European Council, perhaps already from the Ecofin in which he will participate Thursday - will essentially be to call into question the fiscal compact and investment in order to be able to relaunch our country; and then a resolution that says exactly the opposite. I am very concerned about these different languages, because if I had to stick to what Senator Bagnai, Senator Rivolta, Minister Tria, say, nothing but opposition! That's our position. If I had to stick to what is written and vote accordingly, I would obviously oppose this document. I give you a postponement to September; we allow you, it is two hundred days to postpone these conditions to September. What I am asking - and I shall conclude with this - is that it transposes our amendments, which say exactly what you have said in this House, as regards the indication of how VAT sterilization will be carried out without further tax pressure; it transposes our amendments on infrastructure, outside the context of the public deficit, as in our resolution; it transposes our amendments for investment in growth. If he does this, his action will reflect his thought and words. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. Mr Urso (FdI). Otherwise we will have to say that one thing is the language used for public opinion, another is the intervention of the government. So, no. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u112	PITTELLA (PD). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think it was a mistake to turn part of this debate into yet another campaign episode. Members of the Democratic Party, Senators Misiani, Parente, D'Arienzo, Valente, Ferrazzi and Malpezzi did not do this, and I will not do it. I think that the honesty of this authoritative Assembly should lead to an objective, non-partisan, judgment that arises from the examination of the framework outlined in the Economic and Financial Document. Italian government accounts are better than in the past, despite the constraints of fiscal discipline in the euro area. It seems to me that, in recent days, Mr Tria has said quite different things about this, to which I wish him well and of which I have also appreciated tonight the tones and contents of the speech, different from those of the rapporteur. On the other hand, the new government should take advantage of this, if it is true that a difficult phase awaits us, that rulers - if wise and competent - cannot fail to see the international variables, the war of duties of friend Trump, the slowing down in Europe, the exhaustion of the monetary stimuli of the European Central Bank. We must land, after the election campaign, on the ground - difficult, I understand - of these challenges. But sooner or later, the Government will have to measure itself: perhaps the Minister Salvini will do it later, but I trust that most of the Government will land on the concreteness and hardness of these challenges. We give advice, say ours, we want to collaborate constructively from the opposition. Firstly, we say that we need strong political action, starting with the next summit in Brussels, so that we can decide on a new economic and financial governance with fiscal capacity and the establishment of a Ministry of Finance, in order to keep together stability and saving the accounts, sustainable growth and job creation. The battle over fiscal capacity is just as important as the battle over the establishment of the Ministry, because the real underlying issue, as my previous colleagues have said, is that you cannot have the same currency in your pocket if it does not have a fiscal capacity, because it does not optimize its full potential. Then, if we agree, convince your European allies, otherwise it is too easy to say so in this House when instead in Brussels from Le Pen to Farage they are opposed to any extension of the capacity of the euro. [[Applause from the PD Group]] At the same time, we must open up a reflection, not on the need for budgetary discipline, which serves at European level, but on the type of rules, on their quality, on their transparency, on their sanctionability, on the inadequacy - I agree with some colleagues who have said so - of the gross domestic product as a parameter to decrypt the well-being or the lack of well-being of our communities; on the immodifiability of these rules in the face of situations of collapse or social crisis or employment of a country in the euro area. We will also have to discuss - and I say this to Minister Tria - the proposal, which appears to emerge, of a euro-zone budget. Do we agree that there is only one budget for the euro area? It may be a proposal, but on condition that it has fiscal capacity, that is to say that it allows us to make those infrastructure investments to which you referred and which Europe, the Mezzogiorno and Italy so badly need. We were the first to say this, you cannot deny it, indeed you were attacking us when Renzi and we in the Socialist and Democratic Group of the European Parliament criticized some Brussellian representatives because they attached themselves to the zero comma and then were shortsighted in the face of violations of the first rule that must be in the European Union, namely that of being together, of spreading burdens and responsibilities, as happened on migrants and asylum seekers by Orban and his friends. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In my opinion, it will be necessary to reaffirm the medium-term objectives, but with a more gradual path, not so much towards - allow me this personal consideration - a balanced budget, but towards budgetary balance, sustainable from an economic and social point of view. On governance reform, as a Group, we will strongly support inclusion within the social pillar. Then there are the issues of common defence, external borders, security, the revision of the Dublin Regulation, the defence of cohesion policies and agricultural policies in the new multiannual European framework. Then there are the internal issues that colleagues have been talking about. I am thinking first of all of the decommissioning of safeguard clauses, therefore the non-increase in VAT, work, welfare issues, and the fight against poverty. Don't touch the measures that affect young people, such as the culture bonus and the 18app web application. I say this to the government: do not touch everything about culture, education and training for our young people [[Applause from the PD Group]] Only if you invest in young people will you give this country a future. Finally, the environment and the Mezzogiorno. She said some interesting things about her colleague L'Abbate. Italy has joined the great agreement on the fight against climate change, because we must go on this road, started by the Renzi and Gentiloni Governments: electrical decarbonization to 2025, renewable to 28 percent in 2030 and other measures on the Mezzogiorno. Let us continue on the road to the special economic zones (SEZs), which could be the real instrument for the growth of our Mezzogiorno. Infrastructure investment: connecting Italy, combating corruption and using the Structural Funds, especially on multi-regional projects. Without affecting the ownership of the Regions, I do not understand how serious interventions can be made on culture, tourism or research if we do not put together the Southern Regions. Make a great program without affecting the autonomy of the Regions on these issues, because only in this way can we optimize. For example, Matera 2019 doesn't make sense if it's just Matera. Matera must be the strength of an entire Mezzogiorno and also of an entire Mediterranean area. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, - I address the Senator Rivolta - we respect the outcome of the elections, but a victory does not allow anyone to feel eternal masters, untouchable, free from criticism and observations. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In democracy, in fact, we listen, we work for dialogue, we work with humility. What is being asked of a government that respects itself is: less roboating and haughty statements; more facts and acts. One colleague said: more verbal continence. Well, always remember De Gaulle: nothing strengthens authority as much as silence. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u113	We greet the students of the Faculty of Economics of the Free University of Bolzano who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u114	I say that the deadline for tabling amendments has expired.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u117	ROMEO (L-SP). Mr President, as the Lega Group, we naturally thank the rapporteur for the valuable work he has done, including in the Commission, and also for the great contribution he has made earlier. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] It is quite difficult to intervene and make more beautiful than Senator Bagnai. Of course, I would also like to thank my fellow Members who have spoken in the debate. The document of economy and finance under discussion today, presented by the Government Gentiloni Silveri, does not give us a new policy framework but only an update of macroeconomic forecasts, referring to the trend framework that clearly follows from the report to the fiscal law of 2018. That is why the resolution tabled by the majority refers in large part to the Update Note to be held in September. The political significance, however, is there in the resolution, because it is clear that at this time the country is waiting for the government to sterilize what are the safeguard clauses. In the resolution, this precise commitment is there, because the word "fostering" means committing ourselves to ensuring that the safeguard clauses are sterilized, which is the primary objective. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] We have understood and understood from the Minister's intervention that the Update Note will have to take into account above all the decrease in the debt-to-GDP ratio in order to try to have that credibility at international level. But how can we try to reduce this debt ratio? We give a suggestion to the Government and the Ministry: to cancel that note within the DEF with which it almost promises that an increase of 33% of immigration will certainly lead to a reduction of the debt ratio GDP. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] No, the 33% increase in immigration will certainly lead to an increase in profits on the part of large companies that want to exploit cheap labour. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] Moreover, we have also understood that this is the goal of globalization, although perhaps it would be better to call it the "Glebalization" of the people, to use a term coined by the philosopher, as well as opinionist, Diego Fusaro. From this point of view, therefore, we expect - and we re-mark it - that this forecast will be removed and deleted. There are, of course, various possibilities for increasing gross domestic product. First of all, there is the suggestion made by the Court of Auditors itself, which we heard during the hearings on the DEF held in the framework of the Special Committee for the Examination of Government Acts. Among the objectives that must be taken into account is to promote a policy to support the birth rate and not to reduce, or even to reduce, the baby bonus, as the previous government has done. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] All this must also be accompanied by a balanced management of migratory flows: balanced and not unwise management of migratory flows. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] These are interventions that the Court of Auditors itself suggests to us. Another suggestion that we make - although not all the details are given in the resolution, we take advantage of it to make suggestions to the Government - is that we can pay for companies that work with the public administration. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] Some have perhaps forgotten, but just a recent report by the CGIA di Mestre has shown that the payment times have extended in the first months of the year, reaching an average of about one hundred and four days in Italy, against the fifty-six of Spain, the thirty-three of Germany and the twenty-six of the United Kingdom. I remember that in Lombardy the payment time is thirty-five days, just to make clear that there are regions that are already doing this work. There are companies that have even been deprived of about EUR 30 billion. This is a precise commitment, because paying in time would be a measure of immediate impact on the country's growth. It is a suggestion that we make, but it is also an expectation that many citizens and many entrepreneurs obviously have towards the Government. Always in terms of gross domestic product and growth, during the debate we have not heard any reference to the fact that in order to make the country grow it is necessary to grant more autonomy to those Regions that are able to manage the accounts seriously. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] It is a diametrically opposed position to that of the previous Government, whose Minister for Reform said that in order to grow the country - let us remember - it was necessary to reduce the legislative power of the Regions themselves. No, because it is no coincidence that the gross domestic product of Milan has grown twice as much as the rest of Italy and managing resources directly on the territory means being able to make those investments that we have heard in this House a little 'by all colleagues. Only with resources can you make investments. How many regions that today govern well - and I am thinking not only of Northern regions, but also of Southern regions - can really, with more resources, create that flywheel on investments that can really make the country grow? There are many speeches and I regret having heard few references from this point of view on the subject of autonomy. Then rest assured of the minority because we are aware that investment in culture and education is one of those expenditures that undoubtedly increase income in the medium term and we are convinced that the government will certainly be active in this direction. VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. Thank you! ROMEO (L-SP). Well, do you see that the climate of cooperation with you is always there? Unlike what you say, we also know how to listen. Tax reduction is another fundamental and important component. Some people wonder where the resources can be found. Meanwhile reducing the excessive fragmentation on the state's purchase of goods and services; in this country we have 34,000 contracting stations. Let's take an example from the Central Regional Agency purchases in Lombardy that has been able to save a lot of money. Here the State spends EUR 169 billion a year on the purchase of goods and services; it could spend much less saving, guaranteeing the same quality of services and recovering resources. With regard to the fight against tax evasion, Vice Minister Garavaglia says well; just concentrate and do the controls only on the small, easy prey for the Agency of income. It is time to target the big fish; this is the objective that the government must set itself. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] Not to mention that we can also take examples from other European countries that have begun to cut the famous silent subsidies. There are statistics that say that with all the various subsidies that exist - in our country there are six types - we give businesses about 72 billion euros. The Governor of the European Central Bank Mario Draghi said some time ago that our analyses show that subsidies to companies have generally been ineffective because they often encourage investments that would have been made anyway, introducing distortions of various kinds and penalising entrepreneurs who are capable. This too can be an element from which we can draw resources so that we can lower and reduce taxation. I would like to tell the Government not to forget what were the various suggestions that came not only from the Court of Auditors, but from Conf Profesi and Rete Imprese Italia, which aim at simplification. In this respect, I hope that the Government will do something about e-invoicing. The risk is that... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the L-SP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u118	Please conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u119	ROMEO (L-SP). The risk is that our entrepreneurs are not ready. So the invitation is to be able to delay over time the possibility of the introduction itself. I have other things to say, but there is no more time; you will have understood from the intervention that our vote can only be a vote in favour of majority resolution, with the knowledge that the government will do well to ask the minority to stop attacking prejudices, and to possibly be able to criticize us on the facts. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u122	PICHETTO FRATIN (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Mr Minister, first of all it must be said that this document of economics and finance, as has been widely debated, is represented only by the trend and therefore lacks the planning framework. Moreover, an uncurrent trend, now surpassed by a series of facts, many not linked to purely national Italian evaluations; overcome by the increase in rates and by a series of international facts and factors that are constantly changing. However, under existing legislation there is an increase in VAT in 2019-2020. This forecast should also serve to reduce consumption and reduce the growth of gross domestic product. It should therefore be noted that the economic policies adopted in recent years have failed to bring Italy out of the long and dramatic economic and financial crisis that began in 2008. It is true that there has been weak economic growth driving the international cyclical phase and, in any case, it has been a recovery which has recorded a growth rate of Italian gross domestic product far below the average of the European Union. The former minister of the Padoan economy has defined us in his statements "the taillight of Europe." Such weak growth has also highlighted the absence of a concrete recovery in terms of employment, industrial production, export, domestic demand and confidence. Everything has moved, but very little. The management of public finances has unfortunately fueled current expenditure and has not reduced the deficit, supporting the already high public debt that in 2018 - let us remember - has exceeded the record of 2,300 billion. Net debt reached 2.3 percent in 2017, with a 0.4 percent bank bailout, but above all there was a very fragmented use of public resources. Among other things, no clear result of reducing the tax burden on businesses and households has been noted. If we analyze the main measure of the Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri governments, the bonus of 80 euros, we note that it has proved to be an unfair measure from the fiscal point of view and inadequate to restart the consumption. The other spending measures have in some cases been genuine waste of public money. In addition, there was no linear and incisive decision on the employment market, but different interventions during the five years of government that have shown a discontinuity in the various measures in support of wage decontribution. Labour market reform, the so-called jobs act, has also shown its lack of application. I would also like to point out that this intervention has denied reality with the abolition of vouchers which, however, represented an intervention - and still are - which responds to a demand from the market. A cast labour market has thus increased the level of poverty, which has reached 4.7 million inhabitants. The answer to this situation cannot be the income of inclusion, but not even the income of citizenship proposed by the new government. The incoming Executive avoided including programmatic values in the document of economy and finance, limiting itself to recalling the government contract, so that now we do not know how the announced structural reforms will be carried out in the main areas that Italy needs. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, because it was the only contribution of proposal and evaluation to the possible scenario of the coming months: the approach to negotiation with the European Union and some specific references to certain ways of calculating our investments in relation to the rules of the European Union. The lack of reforms would slow down gross domestic product well beyond expectations of the international economic cycle, not benefiting from any structural or countercyclical measures of the outgoing Executive. In order to see a reversal, we will need a more concrete and less floating reform plan than we have been through in recent periods. Making investments means freeing Italy from a code of contracts that is a kind of shirt of strength and freeing the fabric of urban rules from all those constraints that have created a territory practically without yards, but with so many controllers, multiplying the points of less transparency and those of hypothetical source of corruption: because if there are so many who have to give the opinion or control, probably not all are good. So here we arrive, with a multiplication of the "regular lace" (made of stamps, taxes and tariffs) and of the delinquency lace (due to the excess of controls), I do not say to create, but to promote and promote the opportunities for corruption to happen. I want to subtlely remind you that Italy has always had an economy supported by export and real estate. The real estate sector has been made even more immovable by a tax burden on the house quadrupled since 2011. I would like to remind you that the property, the house, in Italy was the saving and the very concept of saving compared to other countries where instead there was no direct connection. With a few clear provisions, therefore, it is possible to put hand both to our cities and to a whole productive sector that can create jobs. Just remove a little bureaucracy, just get to a serious, and not complicated, transparency and responsibility. See that reducing bureaucracy, authorisations and controls not only does not cost and could be done immediately, but would generate new impetus to economic activities immediately, while in the long run it could bring real savings. Having said that, it is clear that reducing the tax burden on companies and households (as provided for in the centre-right programme), by triggering a radical transformation of the Italian tax system, is essential and desirable. On this point, it seems to me that within the Government the distinctions have begun, at least on the very borders of tax reform: first companies or before families? Today's press bodies give companies first, but only a few. Unfortunately, there has been little clarity in the speeches in this House on this and on other issues. We expect an intervention in favour of families (family or other name), which is fundamental, because a reform of the country, the correct reading of the country, can only start from the demographic structure, the only one moreover predictable in the various years. (17.03) (Followed by PICHETTO FRATIN). There are paths that we imagine are also shared by the current majority. I am talking about fiscal federalism, which, on the contrary, the previous majority had identified as an enemy to fight. And such and so much has been the penalty against the entities that govern the territory, Regions, Municipalities and Provinces (the latter suppressed, but never abolished), that today the same mouths respect the needs of their territories. Public expenditure needs to be rationalised; once and for all, it is necessary to reverse the trend and adopt a strategy that focuses exclusively on structural and permanent measures affecting labour costs, as well as a more comprehensive framework of growth measures. We have tabled - and I conclude - a motion for a resolution, which, of course, has already 'beheaded' the procedure, bringing to the vote the motion for a resolution identified by the Government. Our motion for a resolution deals with many issues which we have tabled as amendments, because we believe that, on the whole, those amendments, if accepted, can really contribute to the Government, even in Europe, in order to achieve the objectives of the country we are pursuing and of which the Minister has also spoken in part. Forza Italia, as President Bernini already stated in the explanation of vote on trust in the Government Count, is not for no at all costs: it is for merit assessments. But in this case, on the basis of a tendency prepared by the Government Gentiloni Silveri, and now unattainable, we expected perhaps a little'more from the Government Count. For these reasons, the vote of Forza Italia will be against this measure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] (17.05 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u125	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in the speeches we have heard many times, reference has been made with a critical reference to the absence of programming elements within this DEF, citing as the only possible element of planning the government contract. Well, I believe that, instead, that reference is fundamental, because that contract contains some elements that are the polar star and the lighthouse of the 5 Star Movement and also represent the motivation for which we are in these classrooms, which is to improve the quality of life of our citizens [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] , which is declined in terms of work, health, environment, justice and development. This polar star we have well in mind and the government action will be addressed to these elements. In his speech to the Chambers the President of the Council was very clear: the public debt we want to reduce with the growth of our wealth and not with austerity measures. I believe that we need to listen, implement and monitor, and on these fronts too Parliament will be called to express itself clearly. However, we do not want adventures, let alone escapes forward, in the name of a responsibility that has always distinguished us and was also rewarded by Italians. First of all, therefore, we express a strong appreciation and we reiterate today in this House that the fear of increasing VAT and increasing excise duties on petrol and gas oils (conscious of the fact that it would have dramatic effects on the already fragile dynamics of domestic demand) must be avoided by all means. We are sure that the work of this Government and of the entire Government team will be in this direction. We are also sure of the maximum attention the Commission will give to our young people. Last Friday Eurostat, the statistical office of the European Union, issued data on NEETs, i.e. those who do not study or work: Italy is at the top of the 2017 ranking and recorded a percentage of 25.7 against an average of 14.3 of the rest of Europe. A merciless fact, a manifest failure of the policies put in place in recent years by successive governments, such as, for example, the management of the Youth Guarantee programme: only 17.5% who joined it today has a job. Restarting Italy means not distributing rainy bonuses, as happened in the recent past; it means rather training, attracting investments, exploiting the potential that this country has so far used with dropper, also because of a socio-economic discomfort that in many cases, especially in the South, has prevented any possibility of development. The meeting between supply and demand should therefore be called for, through a serious, transparent and shared reform of employment centres. This is the first element that we will put in place, and then activate the income of citizenship, which is not a welfare measure; it is a measure that prevents those young people who have also mentioned the rapporteur, Mr Bagnai, from being exploited as a head of government, because they have no hope of finding a job. We must accompany young people or young people who lose their jobs through an income of citizenship; we must train them and put together the demand and supply of work, but we must be sure that people can survive in that period of training in a dignified way. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We believe that this process should be accompanied by a series of reforms. Let us think of the system of justice, which must become more man-made. Certainly, as written in the programme contract, we cannot ignore the lowering of the costs of access to justice, the simplification and reduction of processes and the strengthening of the guarantees of protection of the rights and interests of citizens, without forgetting, of course, a reform of the statute of limitations and a sharp contrast to conflicts of interest and corruption, which costs us from an economic point of view and above all to the appeal that we can have for foreign investments. Above all, we need a strong, constant and daily struggle for all the mafias. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] A recent research found that Italy's attractiveness to foreign companies is substantially affected by three factors: tax, civil justice and bureaucracy. A less oppressive taxation is a functioning taxation; a simplification of the relationship between the revenue agency and taxpayers, with the abolition of those obligations that penalise in particular honest citizens, is absolutely necessary and no longer postponed. In addition, fewer ties and constraints for entrepreneurs - in a single word, sburocratizzazione - will serve to restore Italy to greater competitiveness in the international and world scene, creating conditions favorable also to exports. To be more competitive means to us, above all, to make targeted and useful investments for the lives of citizens. It is enough to speak today of pharaonic works such as, for example, the Bridge on the Strait [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We are debating an important decree-law, of which I am also rapporteur, which concerns the earthquake. We need to talk about securing our buildings; we need to talk about ordinary maintenance of our infrastructure. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] We have sections of one-track railroad and we are talking about 36 kilometers of tunnels from one part of Italy to the other. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] I believe that we need to talk about the ordinary maintenance of our infrastructure, because there is a fundamental need for small interventions, which, however, give answers to the citizens. Moreover, we need greater and constant protection of the environment. Also on this case the Prime Minister Conte was explicit: We are not willing to sacrifice the environment and the design of a blue economy for other purposes. Among our main objectives is surely to move towards a greater diffusion of sustainable development models, starting with mobility, with a constant increase of hybrid and electric vehicles and, at the same time, a progressive reduction of those powered by diesel and petrol, encouraging the development of bicycle networks, both urban and extra-urban. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, this issue is very often relegated to the last place, but we want to emphasise its importance. It is our intention to focus more on scientific research and culture. We are a country full of trained, competent and capable researchers and researchers [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups),]] who dedicate their lives to study; people we form in this country but who in the end have to abandon them reluctantly to go and develop their research projects elsewhere. We believe that with culture you eat: it is a bad term, but culture has a huge economic multiplier and in this country you never talk about culture because it does not bring votes and on this issue it is difficult to campaign. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] Instead, we believe that it is a fundamental element for this country. As the League Leader said, from the speeches we have made, it is clear that we will vote in favour of the majority motion for a resolution on the DEF. We are doing this with great hope: in fact, in five years' time, citizens will be able to recognise that the measures that the present Government and this Parliament have put in place will have improved the quality of their lives in everyday detail. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u126	I would like to inform the House that 36 amendments have been tabled to the motion for a resolution No 2, signed by Senators Romeo and Patuanelli, accepted by the Government, whose texts are being copied. I therefore suspend the sitting for ten minutes so that they can be distributed. (The sitting was suspended at 5.13 p.m. and resumed at 5.32 p.m.) The session is resumed. Please take your seats. I invite the presenters to explain the amendments, within the time remaining, rounded by the Presidency in three minutes for the Forza Italia Group, five minutes for the Democratic Party Group and two minutes for the Fratelli d'Italia Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u127	Mr President, I wanted to briefly explain Amendment No 2.16 and I would like to draw the attention, among others, to Mr Centinario's report. As you will see, Minister Centinario, this issue is in line with initiatives we have taken in the past. Our motion for a resolution and the amendment reflect the issue of the Bolkestein directive; I can see from the lips that the Minister has intuitioned and I hope that I also agreed. Among the demands we have made with our motion for a resolution and amendment 2.16 which incorporates it, there is also a commitment from the Government to exclude the issue of state property concessions from the application of Directive 2006/123/EC, the note - or infamous, depending on the point of view - Bolkestein directive on services in the European common market and not goods. This applies both to the tourist activities of the beach businesses and to the activities of the walking trade. I address the Government in its entirety and collegiality, but there are parliamentary colleagues who in previous stages - I say with optimism - have shared battles and initiatives to ask for a protection of the fundamental productive sectors of tourism and of the bathing enterprises or of the walking trade. The Bolkestein directive and everything else we have discussed several times in this House and, therefore, the matter is well known. We would therefore ask for a favourable opinion on Amendment No 2.16 because this is a matter which must certainly be re-examined in the European fora. Mr Bolkestein himself - as Minister Centinario will recall - visited the House of Parliament a few weeks ago, but he testified, no longer a European Commissioner, that this directive should not apply to these areas because it concerns other areas, so there is also an authentic testimony and interpretation. We therefore hope that the Government will give a positive opinion on Amendment 2.16 to give a signal of commitment. It is not that the amendment immediately triggers a new legal regime, but it undertakes to take initiatives. We therefore expect a positive opinion on Amendment 2.16. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u128	Mr President, we were very impressed by the motion for a resolution tabled by the majority, which we regard as minimalist to the limits of reluctance. The motion for a resolution says a few things. There is a due act, namely the submission of an update of the Stability Programme and the PNR; is talk of favouring the disabling of the safeguard clauses, without specifying neither the entity (in whole or in part), nor the timing (only 2019 or even the following years); then there is a general-generic reference to the government contract and the programmatic lines on which the new Government had the confidence. In the government contract there are many things written: there is flat tax, but there is also support for small fishing; there is the income of citizenship, but there is also the implementation of motor practice starting from primary school. We would like to understand the priorities among these numerous commitments written in the Government contract. But there is no priority in the motion for a resolution tabled by the majority forces. So we, in our small group, are in charge of making a contribution that passes, through amendment 2.1, from the elimination of the general-generic reference to the government contract and then, through the successive amendments tabled by the Democratic Party, from the indication of some issues that we consider priority and that we would like to read in a resolution, which is not a due act: it cannot be limited to postponing the autumn choices that it is useful to indicate now. The task of a resolution to the Economic and Financial Document, even more so at the time of the birth of a new Government, is to highlight to Parliament, but above all to the voters and Italians, what are the priorities of economic and social policy. In our opinion, the priority axes are: the complete disabling of the safeguard clauses - not simply facilitating the decommissioning of the clauses - for the three-year period 2019-2021; the exclusion of any form of pardon to finance the sterilization of the safeguard clauses and the reform of the governance of the euro area. We cannot just present the update of the reform programme, but it is useful to indicate what we want to do in Europe, what we want to do about combating inequalities, about work on public and private investment, about school and about the strategy for sustainable development. Our proposals are in the act, we repeat them with these amendments and we ask for the Senate to vote on them. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u129	Mr President, not seeing the Minister for Economic Affairs, I will address Vice-President Matteo Salvini to highlight some of the amendments tabled by our Group which I have already mentioned in the explanation of vote. The first two amendments, 2.3 and 2.7, concern the sterilization of VAT, to make it more stringent and above all to give it an indication, and we say with structural measures and without increasing the tax burden, so that it is clear in what direction the sterilization of VAT clauses must go. In particular, I would like to make two other amendments, on 2,34 and 2,35, which contain the words which Mr Tria repeated several times in this House in his reply. These are exactly his words that he repeated several times. Amendment 2.34 proposes to commit the Government to support in Europe the need for a reform of the economic institutions governing Europe for an economic policy aimed at growth and convergence. These are the textual words of Minister Tria in this House. Amendment 2.35 commits the Government to support in the European context the need to separate expenditure on tangible and intangible public investment from deficit calculation and to spend up to 3% of the deficit-to-GDP ratio on these areas. Here too, we have written down the words and the commitment that Minister Tria made in this House in his reply. Therefore, we hope that they will be incorporated, through our amendments, in the text which will be approved by this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u130	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u131	Mr President, I am against all the amendments. In particular, the opinion on Amendment 2.16 is against it because it is not on the substance. [[Applause from the L-SP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u132	Mr President, the Government, in giving its assent to the rapporteur's opinion, and therefore against all the amendments, is very keen to explain to this House that the resolution - which today is not being amended by the amendments tabled - contains just how two very important points are structured, which are the issues of the amendments proposed in this House to the Government. The first is the issue of VAT, which is clear and even a single point. The second issue is the government contract, which contains many of the topics proposed with the amendments under consideration. These include the Bolkestein directive, but I have read amendments on the Fornero law, flat tax and many other issues, which are within the government contract and on which, in the next few days, it is committed and is already working. Therefore, I repeat the opposite opinion on all the amendments and I thank the House for paying attention to issues which, fortunately, are contained in the Government contract and which it then examined. [[Applause from the L-SP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u135	Mr Calderoli (L-SP). Mr President, I would like to make two comments. The first is on the order of business and it is a request that I address to Senator Gasparri. We are just one week away from the debate ahead of the European Council. Having explained the position taken by the Government with regard to the Bolkestein directive, I would ask Senator Gasparri to consider the withdrawal of amendment 2.16 in fact, with the commitment on our part, in that debate, which is the competent one, to approve a proposal to this effect. In addition, Mr President, we call for the roll-call vote on the amendments and the motion for a resolution to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u136	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. [[The request is supported. Senator Gasparri points out that he wants to intervene.]] Colleagues, but now there can be no answer and then a counter-answer. We shall have the debate at the most appropriate place. In my view, it is unnecessary to insist on this point here. I see no reason to reply. Gasparri (FI-BP). But I want to withdraw the amendment! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gasparri, I understand you want to intervene to withdraw the amendment. There's nothing to complain about. I understand that you only want to answer here. When we come to the vote on Amendment 2.16 you can withdraw it. If you want to withdraw it immediately, the Presidency takes note of it, but it can also be done later.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u137	I'm asking you to talk, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u139	Gasparri (FI-BP). Thank you, President. In fact, my speech is on the order of business, because it concerns the amendment. I welcome the call for the withdrawal of the amendment, which we will be resuming in any case during the debate next week in view of the President-in-Office's communications. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] I hope that the applause, for which I thank you, will come after the adoption of the amendment by Forza Italia against Bolkestein next week. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP groups]] BELLANOVA (PD). The government representative must say what he thinks of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u140	Amendment 2.16 has been withdrawn, although in fact - in my opinion - it would have been more orderly to withdraw it once it had been examined. I just said that, but it's okay. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Ferrari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Pittella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.3, tabled by Senator Bertacco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.4, tabled by Senator Marino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.5, tabled by Senator Marino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.6, tabled by Senator Marino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Bertacco and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 2.7. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.8, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.9, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.10, tabled by Senator Testor and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.11, tabled by Senator Moles and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.12, tabled by Senator Fantetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Pichetto Fratin and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 2.13. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.14, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.15 tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.16... [[Comments from the L-SP Group.]] Maybe a little patience won't hurt anyone. Amendment 2.16 has been withdrawn. I call on Senator Pichetto Fratin and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.17. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.18, tabled by Senator Fantetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Pichetto Fratin and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 2.19. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.20, tabled by Senator Fantetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.21, tabled by Senator Fantetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.22, tabled by Senator Bernini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.23, tabled by Senator Bernini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.24, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.25, tabled by Senator Fantetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.26, tabled by Senator Pichetto Fratin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.27, tabled by Senator Fantetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.28, tabled by Senators Bernini and Berardi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.29, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.30, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Bertacco and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.31. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.32, tabled by Senator Bertacco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Bertacco and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 2.33. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Bertacco and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.34. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Bertacco and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.35. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Ferrazzi and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.36, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senators Romeo and Patuanelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). It is therefore foreclosed that motions for resolutions Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12,
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u141	The Conference of Leaders approved changes to the current calendar and the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 5 July. In order to allow the Special Commission to conclude its work on the decree-law on seismic events, the Assembly will not hold its session tomorrow. The debate on the measure will begin on Thursday 21 June alone at 9 a.m. and will continue next week, starting on Tuesday 26 June. However, it remains established, by unanimous agreement between the Leaders, on the basis of the precedents, that the Special Commission, if necessary, will complete the examination of the measure in the contact person even after the establishment of the Permanent Commissions. On Thursday 21 June, the Permanent Commissions shall be convened to set up the relevant Presidency Offices at the following times: Commissions from 1 to 7a at 10 a.m.; Commissions from 8th to 14th at 11 o'clock. Without prejudice to the other topics foreseen in the timetable, on Thursday 28 the Minister of Economic Development of Labour and Social Policies on accidents in the workplace will be informed. Finally, the schedule of the week from 3 to 5 July provides for the examination of the decree-law on the financing of funds for social shock absorbers, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u142	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar and the new calendar of the Assembly until July 5: [[Tuesday, June 19 h. 11 - Doc. LVII, n. 1 - Document of economy and finance 2018 - Drawing of law n. 435 - Decree-Law n. 55, further measures in favour of the populations affected by the seismic events of 2016 (Final vote by 29 June) (It falls on 28 July) (report) Thursday 21 " h. 9]] Motions for resolutions on Doc. LVII, No 1 (Document of Economy and Finance 2018) will have to be submitted before the conclusion of the general discussion. Amendments to the resolution adopted by the Government should be tabled within one hour of the opinion being delivered. On Wednesday 20 June, the Shareholders' Meeting will not hold a session to allow the Special Commission for the examination of urgent acts submitted by the Government to conclude work on Decree-Law No 55, which provides further measures for the populations affected by the earthquakes of 2016. The Permanent Commissions shall be convened to set up the relevant Presidency Offices on Thursday 21 June at the following times: Commissions from 1st to 7th - 10 o'clock; Commissions from 8th to 14th - 11 o'clock. Parliament shall be convened at 2.30 p.m. on Thursday 21 June for the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court. Mr Senator will be voting first. [[Tuesday, June 26 h. 16,30-20 - Following bill No. 435 - Decree-Law No. 55, further measures in favour of the populations affected by the earthquakes of 2016 (final vote by June 29) (It falls July 28) - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the European Council of 28 and 29 June 2018 (Wednesday 27, at 16) - Information of the Minister for Economic Development and Labour and Social Policies on accidents in the workplace (Thursday 28) Wednesday 27 " h. 9,30 Thursday 28 " h. 9,30]] [[Tuesday, July 3, h. 16-20 - Eventually followed bill no. 435 - Decree-Law No. 55, further measures in favour of the populations affected by the seismic events of 2016 (Scade on July 28) - Drawing of law no. 488 - Decree-Law No. 44, financing of funds for social shock absorbers (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Scade on July 8) Wednesday 4 " h. 9.30-20 Thursday 5 " h. 9.30 (if necessary)]] Amendments to draft law No 488 (Decree-Law No 44) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Thursday 28 June. Time distribution for discussion of document LVII, No 1 (Economy and Finance Document 2018) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 45' Government 45' Groups 5 hours and 30 minutes, of which: M5S 1h 20' FI-BP 55' L-SP 54' PD 51' FdI 33' Mixed 30' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 28' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 435 (Decree-Law No 55, further measures in favour of populations affected by the earthquakes of 2016) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1h 13' FI-BP 50' L-SP 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion on communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 28 and 29 June 2018) (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 40' FI-BP 30' L-SP 29' PD 28' FdI 18' Mixed 20' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 15' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 488 (Decree-Law No 44, financing of funds for social shock absorbers) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 44' FI-BP 30' L-SP 29' PD 28' FdI 18' Mixed 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 15' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u143	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-06-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-12.ana.u144	The Senate will meet again in public session on Thursday 21 June, at 9 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.03.
