ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00057 by Senator Romeo and other senators, abbreviated pursuant to Rule 157 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, 1-00061 by Senator Bernini and other senators, and 1-00062 by Senator Taricco and other senators, on the protection of the Italian agri-food sector. I call Senator Vallardi to explain motion 57.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u5	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what I am preparing to explain is a motion which, in my opinion and of the League Group, is certainly of great value and is in the interests of the whole of our country's agriculture and of all those people who receive support from agriculture. In detail, in order to tell the facts that led us to this motion, I read about the path that starts from July 2018, when the World Health Organization and the UN stated that in diets it was necessary to reduce saturated fats, salt, sugars and alcohol, whose over-consumption could have harmful effects on health. This is in order to reduce death rates for diabetes, cancer and cardiovascular disease by one third by 2030. The aim was to achieve this by introducing similar taxation on these products to alcohol and tobacco and other harmful substances, and by placing hazard warnings on the packaging and discouraging the use of these products. In September of this year, during the UN high-level meeting on non-communicable diseases, a preliminary draft resolution was discussed which provided for penalising fiscal measures and labelling to discourage the purchase of certain products in the agri-food sector. After a long negotiation, the Heads of State and Government of the 193 member countries of the United Nations approved a political declaration in a text that was ultimately much more balanced, dry, wide-ranging and without prescriptive tones, in line with the interests of our country of protecting the health and excellence of Made in Italy in the agri-food sector. However, last November the principle that had just been adopted and clarified at the highest levels of the Heads of State and Government at the UN was called into question, due to the presentation to the second committee of the UN General Assembly of a resolution by seven countries, led by Brazil and France, containing substantially punitive measures already proposed in the preliminary draft of September. These measures - we are well aware of this step - if approved, would seriously damage the Made in Italy agri-food, our gastronomic traditions, our export, our agriculture and, above all - this I think is the most important thing, because it is the real added value of our agriculture - the reputation of typical Italian products. It should be said that in 2017 Italian agri-food exports exceeded the record figure of 40 billion euros (therefore a very high value), mainly driven by products of our tradition such as wine, cheese and cold cuts, i.e. the categories of goods that would be affected by the measures proposed by the group led by France and Brazil. The global application of the measures proposed in the resolution would lead to a sharp contraction in the sales of Italian agri-food products abroad (which would be inevitable because, if we damage the image, this would be the expected relapse), with the result of reducing the positive margins of the trade balance, as well as putting at serious risk hundreds of thousands of jobs and the very survival of many small and medium-sized enterprises. Italian productions, due to their intrinsic peculiarities, are placed at the basis of the Mediterranean diet, recognized by UNESCO as an intangible heritage of humanity as a healthy and balanced food model based on a diversified and balanced consumption. But, above all, the productions of our country have a tradition that bases its roots in history. We know very well the millennial history of olive oil that has been traced since ancient times (700-800 B.C.). I am also referring to Parmesan which has been historical since the early Middle Ages. So these products are part of the history of our country and entire generations, starting from our ancestors, have grown feeding on them and have always been great. What we do not understand is why these products are no longer good today. I am referring in particular to France, which has headed this rope. I think about the fairy tale of the fox and the grape: when the fox says that the grape is not good, it's because it doesn't get there. The French are probably not able to make products like ours and therefore tend to denigrate them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] I therefore return to the objective of the motion, which has become necessary and which, I hope, can be shared. I have heard that there are two other motions on this subject, but I believe that, with a common view to achieving the interests of our farmers, we can find a solution on which we can all converge. The first aim of motion 57 is to defend, with the utmost determination, the Italian agri-food sector in all international political and diplomatic fora, in particular at the UN (and in its agencies, such as the World Health Organisation and FAO) and within the European Union. The second objective is to put in place a prompt and determined diplomatic action to delete or strongly modify the resolution presented under the initiative "Global Health and Foreign Politics" under discussion at the UN Assembly, in order to avoid the unfair consequences that the approval of this document would have for the Italian agri-food sector and in particular for Italian exports. The third objective is to start a comparison, in the appropriate locations, in order to clarify what are the aims that have led France to promote this initiative in collaboration with non-European countries without a prior agreement with the other European Member States, although it is a country that, in a manner similar to Italy, boasts many agri-food products with designation of origin and geographical indication (similar to those Italian, but certainly less good), recognized by the European Union and that with the approval without modifications of this document risks being severely penalized itself. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u6	I call Senator Berutti to explain motion 61.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the political declaration "Time to deliver," approved on 27 September 2018 by the Heads of State and Government of the 193 member countries of the United Nations, there is no specific reference to foods or drinks that may be harmful to health. On the contrary, the text speaks of diets that can be as a whole, in any case related to the way of life that is being conducted. I believe that this is a cornerstone of this reflection, but above all of the action we are putting in place and that of course we hope that it will lead our Government, in the proper places, to intervene in a heavy way. A resolution has been tabled by the seven countries of the Group Foreign policy and global health (Brazil, France, Norway, Indonesia, South Africa, Thailand and Senegal): of these seven countries at least six probably have one of the food products indicated (I do not want to expand, but actually this is the reality). And here I join with what President Vallardi said about the French whose position surprises us when they boast of being a great country with an agri-food vocation, but they probably realize that, compared to Italy, they are really little. Well, the resolution, tabled for the examination of the second UN commission, under the Global Health and Foreign Policies initiative, aims to create a link between certain diseases and certain types of food or drink. There appears to be a re-discussing of food, after only seven weeks (i.e. since 27 September) from the presentation of the principle on lifestyles, which has been approved at the highest level by the Heads of State and Government. I repeat: 193 member countries. The resolution deals with healthy and unhealthy foods, introducing an indication not supported by science, which instead refers to healthy diets or non-healthy diets. The aim of the proposers' resolution seems to be to point out that the products put on the index should be affected by strict restrictions, duties and regulations on their marketing. It should be pointed out that already the only link between disease and food represents an extreme trivialization of the problems related to health, since health and diseases are certainly and mainly also related to physical activity, work, sport, as well as lifestyle, age and the environment in which we live. If the resolution were adopted, all countries would be allowed to place labels with clearly visible stamps on food and drink, such as those used on cigarettes, which would damage the export of the Italian agro-food processing industry. I would like to dwell on how much this action that we are trying with our colleagues is extremely delicate and important because it would mean devastating one of the most important economies in our country. On the contrary, it is worth remembering the extraordinary impact that every day has - I am going specifically - a cube of cheese grain or half a liter of whole milk on the growth of a child. The same foods, if eaten by an adult subject, perhaps overweight, can have different impacts, just to point out that this is a matter related to diet and not to foods or beverages. It should also be pointed out that the US Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) has issued an invitation to indicate on the packaging of oils containing 70 percent of oleic acid (Italian extra virgin olive oil) that their consumption brings cardiovascular benefits, when replacing saturated fat harmful to the heart. A resolution, therefore, which required writing on a healthy food product, such as cheese grain or like whole milk, that is, extra virgin olive oil, which is detrimental to health would not only be wrong, but from a scientific point of view completely devoid of foundation. In particular, Italian foods containing salts, fats and sugars are charged. It comes to think that there is a strategic crusade and well defined against Made in Italy, one of the most important pillars of our economy. The same majority, on the initiative of some of its Members, tried to criminalise the use of sugar, fearing the introduction of a sugar tax on alcoholic beverages and other foods containing sugar, but also strongly attacking the Italian sugar beet processing industry, already in crisis because it was hit by the disastrous European policies. Many territories have lived it on their skin. I remember that a few years ago the closure of several machining centres created considerable repercussions at the level of agriculture and territorial production because they had to change all the productive balances of very important areas. We consider that Italian exports to the food sector exceeded 41 billion euros in 2017, 7% more than in 2016. That's why we bother. The motion commits, therefore, the Government to bring scientific evidence within the UN on the quality and positive nutritional characteristics of Italian products derived from the agro-food processing, such as to support the Italian diplomatic action, which leads to the withdrawal or rejection in the UN of the aforementioned resolution or any similar resolutions, verifying also the formal vices present in the resolution and recalling that the United Nations cannot approve prescriptive indications. The motion under consideration also commits the Government to intervene in every European forum to restore the volume of transfers to the Italian national agricultural policy, which would be penalized by the recent approval of the fiscal hypothesis of the European Union 2021-2017, which unfortunately provides cuts to the agricultural sector and the cohesion funds involving the Italian regions with a strong agricultural vocation, which could have serious repercussions on the Italian production that is estimated to be, to date, 15%; a hyperbolic value. In the motion, the Commission is still committed to making the most of the most appropriate investments and structures for the purpose, the food and drinks that characterize the Made in Italy and the so-called Mediterranean diet, considered an intangible heritage of UNESCO's humanity, proposing an important campaign to publicise and enhance our products abroad and facilitating with concrete initiatives, including tax, our exporters of agri-food products, so that our products can be the best ambassadors in the world. Finally, the Government is committed to promoting campaigns to encourage balanced diets in Italy, in which all healthy foods of the Italian diet are present. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u8	I call Senator Biti to explain motion 62.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are here to discuss a series of motions which all deal with the same subject, well illustrated and presented by my colleagues and now also by President Vallardi. What are we talking about? I repeat, because I think it is important to take stock of what we are asking the Government to do with these motions: to intervene in important fora, such as the UN, not only in order to preserve Italian products in the agri-food, agricultural and zootechnical sectors, but also in order to make them understand in that forum and in other countries, through the help of the World Health Organization, what we mean by food culture in Italy. I will not dwell on what has already been said, on the declaration approved by the 193 member countries of the UN in September and on the fact that seven countries (including, as has already been said, France, but there are others as well, and for me it makes no difference that some of them belong to the European Community and others do not) want to label certain foods as bad. The motions before us today, which, I understand, could come to a convergence by voting on a shared text, must, in my view, be dealt with in two ways: cultural and economic. The cultural profile leads us to represent, in the locations I mentioned earlier, what Italy has always supported: the fact of owning an ancient agro-food tradition, to the point that the Mediterranean diet, even in the past years, has been recognized by many countries as a fundamental pillar in food regimes until it is declared, by UNESCO, in 2010, immaterial cultural heritage of humanity. We therefore have on our side such an ancient tradition, according to which the diet is not made by healthy foods or not tout court, but by a correct lifestyle, consisting of the intake of a variety of foods of great quality - and we have them - and by the attention to physical activity in an attempt to limit - if not to eliminate - substances or habits capable of causing pathologies that the UN resolution proposes to defeat. I am referring to diabetes, cancer and cardiovascular diseases, which are not communicable, but which can find a facilitator and a predisposition factor in food. We must therefore train young people from a cultural point of view, especially young people, who must be able to mediate in their lifestyles, abandon sedentary behaviour, restrict the use of tobacco - which I would hope would not exist at all, thus stopping smoking - and alcohol. We are never for an attitude of closure, to punish, to ban, but to educate and direct to correct lifestyles. All this, as I said, must be added to the economic aspect. There is a cultural challenge that must be brought to an international level. It has already been remembered the impact that in Italy has the agro-food sector on the economy of our country, also with reference to 'export. Our export is in fact very strong from this point of view, because the quality and goodness of our products (also from the point of view of oligo-food and the balances that each product has in itself) are recognized worldwide. The agro-food and livestock sectors must be preserved, because they are fundamental to our economy and with excellent and recognised quality elements. From this point of view, we want - as you know, the Democratic Party has this position - to do everything necessary to ensure that our exports have as much momentum as possible and that this sector can continue to grow. For these reasons, Minister, I would therefore ask you, without making any kind of controversy, what is the government's position on an important treaty such as CETA, which we believe is fundamental. We would like to see, at least for once, a clear vision from the government. Minister, you have spoken in a certain way; Other Ministers of this Government last week in this House expressed their views in another way, which was very clear in relation to CETA. We would like to hear from you, who is the Minister for this, an answer and a line as soon as possible. I say this really without controversy, but only because I believe that the sector expects an answer. Uncertainty and the fact that you don't understand where you have to go create only problems. An answer is always better than uncertainty. I therefore believe that this motion should also serve to build a genuine diplomacy of agri-food and that it should be shared by all the various parties - majority and minority - of parliamentary assemblies, as well as - I hope - the text that will be adopted this morning will be shared. It would be nice if, regardless of the majorities that will alternate from here to the next few years, there could be a diplomacy of the agro-food industry that always has as its priority the quality of Italian agri-food products and the Italian economic system that depends on them. I hope we can all do this together. You, Minister, and your Government, also have the task of ensuring that the diplomacy of agri-food (I want to continue to call it that) is shared by those who sit in the parliamentary classrooms representing the whole sector and the citizens who take on these foods every day. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bergesio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u10	I would like to say that the G1 agenda has been presented, which has already been printed and distributed, which Senator De Petris has asked to explain. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u11	Mr President, the subject of motions and the G1 agenda is crucial to our agri-food system. It is no coincidence that almost all the motions and the agenda contain the same kind of commitments and purposes, to underline the critical issue of the so-called traffic lights. I believe that Italy has been the first in Europe, even in the European Commission, to force - for years - the issue of labelling. I would like to remind you that this has been one of the elements on which historically the position of our country, beyond the successive governments, has also been fundamental. The reason, of course, is that a system of clear labelling, of serious information to consumers, of labelling that clearly indicates the origin of products for our agriculture (because we have a system of so many agricultures) is crucial. It means recognising the value in the chain of supply chain, giving agriculture and farmers, and not just industry, the right recognition; it means giving value to the territories, because agriculture is above all the identity of the territories with their added value, that is, the landscape, the ancient skills and wisdom of the peasants and their work. So it is paradoxical that today we are faced with a hypothesis, that in Britain and Ireland, unfortunately, it has already passed and has entered into operation, and that it uses what has always been our historic battle: I am referring to the issue of labelling to get to do an operation that, in the end, will come back against the Italian agri-food system and against consumers. That is precisely what I would like to focus on, which is the opposite of what should be done to protect the health of citizens and, above all, children for proper food education. What happens with this traffic light labelling system? While there is an information that, paradoxically, seems neutral, in the sense that the account is taken of certain nutrients considered critical, such as fats, for which, instead, we are faced with the paradox of products, perhaps coming from animal fats, which have a little less penalizing (pink, perhaps, instead of red) than that of oil. In fact, one of our products that is likely to suffer the most negative impact with this type of labelling is precisely, for example, olive oil, that is to say one of the main brands of our country. And above all, we are concerned about the acceleration that this issue is having at international level. It is for these reasons that every effort must be made - and our agenda goes in this direction - to ensure that this measure is stopped in the UN negotiations. Not only because we are defending - as is right - the interests of our sector, but because it is an absolutely wrong measure from the point of view of protecting the health of our citizens. It is paradoxical, in fact, that in the end hydrogenated fats can have the green light, or almost, and that, instead, other products of ours, which are already considered at international level and in the opinion of the major experts as healthier products, must have the red light. From this point of view, we therefore ask for the commitment of the Government. However, I make a critical remark. We too must use the tax lever within our country to carry out an operation aimed at protecting the health of citizens and, above all, of children. It is well known (I have been doing this for a long time, but without any benefit) the mechanism to modulate VAT in order to penalise, for example, high-fat and gaseous drinks, which, among other things, do not protect our Italian system. The latter, in fact, would be helped by a greater consumption of fresh product (I think, for example, orangeate). Therefore, we must use the tax lever by facilitating VAT, especially where it is necessary to do so for the health of children, while increasing it and eliminating the benefits for all those products which, on the other hand, are harmful to the health of citizens. I also believe that we should promote a great campaign of food education in schools. Much has been done in this respect, but it is absolutely necessary to continue. I am thinking, for example, of the question of school canteens to encourage even more the use of Italian organic products. The most important thing, in my opinion, is that we must strongly relaunch the sense of recognition of the Mediterranean diet and therefore, in the course of the negotiations, I advise the Minister to put in place a series of initiatives with experts to ensure that the Mediterranean diet is recognised internationally as diet, and therefore the lifestyle, more favourable and adequate to protect the health of citizens. [[Applause from Senator Errani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u12	I declare the debate open. Senator La Pietra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, those who have spoken before me in the illustration of the various motions have already said a lot, so I will try not to repeat many concepts that have already been expressed by my colleagues. Instead, I will try to focus on another more general aspect: we are strongly and deeply convinced that the Italian agriculture and agri-food sector has long been under continuous attack and on several fronts. This sector, today, is no longer just a folklore representation of Italian production but has great economic potential that has already been highlighted. Suffice it to say that the export generates approximately 40 billion euros of value and the entire supply chain is estimated at around 130 billion euros. Such high figures are beginning to bother and represent a problem for many in the economic field in the food sector: this is now a reality that is not replicable and cannot be exported and therefore we simply try to reduce it and, if possible, even eliminate it. That's why we're convinced we're under attack. We are under attack from Europe, and I believe that you are well aware of this, which continues with your rules to decide what is best for our nation, without taking into account individual territorial specificities. It goes without saying that the increasingly stringent European directives put our farmers and our producers in difficulty, who are not always able to adapt to laws, prohibitions and stakes that strangle the creativity and specificity of our products; standards based on a massive conception of agriculture, not on the multiplicity of typical products such as those of our nation. Let us think - as an example, Minister - of the fisheries sector which has been making an important contribution to agri-food production for years. Let us think about the amount of European laws that have made fishing almost impossible. We live in a country that has more than 8,000 kilometers of coastline and only 20 percent of the fish consumed in Italy is fished in our seas and by our fishermen. We have one of the oldest fishing fleets in Europe, with vessels now almost thirty years old. It is necessary to renew itself but in recent years, apart from these European directives, no structural fisheries plan has ever been put in place that could include investment plans for the renewal of the fleet, in order to make it more competitive, in order to make it more profitable, allowing also young people, because this generational replacement is another problem that we have in agriculture, to be able to undertake this activity hoping for a job that could guarantee them at least a decent life. Always and only directives that limit fishing activity too tightly, but without any protection for our fishermen compared to those of other Mediterranean countries, which, on the other hand, often evade European standards. In a country surrounded by the sea - it is a reflection that I propose, Minister, to you and to the Government - there is no Ministry of the sea and of the fishing: a gap that should be filled in order to give a perspective to a sector that has great potential for growth. Not to mention all the European directives and policies that have destroyed our sugar production, reduced milk production or the directives that would like us to stop producing cheese with fresh milk, for the benefit of those who, like Germany, are one of the biggest producers of milk powder. We could continue, stressing again how European standards are penalising us. However, we are also under attack from a financial point of view from a Europe that wants to reduce the resources of agriculture for the next Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), but in particular wants to implement an unfair system of distribution of resources between member countries, penalising our country even more. Parameters based only on the quantity of hectares cultivated, without taking into account taxation systems, labour, energy and life costs, as well as the quality of protection for workers, which must be parameters to be considered in order to properly distribute the resources to be allocated. We are under attack, Minister, you know very well, and we stress this again, from a globalization that wants the leveling of products to optimize production costs, also lowering the levels of safety and protection of workers, where the large multinationals of the food industry can be the masters and increase their profits. We are under attack from a globalization that is not only economic and financial, but that allows the movement of people and goods often without control and never, as in recent years, our crops have suffered enormous damage produced by organisms from other parts of the planet. I remember only the most current emergency, that of the Asian bug that is destroying all the cultures of fruit in the North-East or that of Xylella, which has severely reduced the production of oil in Puglia. I still remember what is going on on on walnuts and hazelnuts from Piedmont that is going to have a profound impact on this production. Last but not least, we are thinking of the document under discussion at the United Nations on 13 December. Under the cover of human health we want to hit an agriculture and a food chain that are the best in the world. Paradoxically, on the one hand, global organisms, such as UNESCO, recognize the Mediterranean diet as the best diet in the world and, on the other hand, international organisms themselves would like to declare harmful the elements that are the basis of this same diet. For these reasons we are convinced that we are under attack, Minister, and we are aware of this because these are the battles that Brothers of Italy has always placed at the center of its policy; the Italian right has always considered the defence of Made in Italy to be a strategic sector to defend. That is why we have always, before many others, defended our agriculture from GMOs, from a system built by multinationals that under the banner of the salvation of humanity from hunger have instead impoverished many farmers in the world, leveling down the quality of products but raising their profits. We are therefore pleased today that the majority and the whole of this House have also become aware of these issues, confirming that our positions are broadly acceptable. We therefore hope that there will also be a total sharing of these battles in this House. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u14	Senator Berardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u15	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are today discussing motions for resolutions on agriculture. I have been a farmer for a long time, it is my business; I am a farmer and, as I have always said, I will die as such. Agriculture is indeed a mission, but above all a passion. But I thought I could discuss more, solutions and aid for our farmers. For example, we can remember the last wave of bad weather that destroyed half of Italy, involving not only private citizens and industry, but also our agriculture. However, it seems to me to be an indication of the fact that we have reached the absurd point when we talk about a bottle to put on our products. I am a farmer: I cultivate the vine, produce oil, cereals, fruits and vegetables, and think of having to put a boil on a juice of fruit that I make with a kilo of peaches, where it is written "swimming to health" seems frankly incredible. I would like to say an idiocy, if you can say so in this House; of course I do not want to be disrespectful. The water bottle should be placed on those products that are processed and sold for Italian agricultural products where they are the result exclusively of chemistry and not of work, sweat and nature as in the case of Italian natural products. We must defend our Italian product everywhere, because it is our excellence. We have millions of operators in the sector, millions of employees; hundreds of thousands of companies that carry on our agriculture every day, which needs something else: it must really be defended in every institution. This is the appeal that we make to the Government as Force Italy to take note of it. Already our vice-president Antonio Tajani is carrying out a battle to try to bring home a result on European agricultural policies, which see us again deficit as contributions and as programming. This should go to fight, certainly not the warning that our products are harmful to health. Now that's a real idiocy, I repeat. In agriculture we have several moments of discouragement: in my Maremma we suffered a flood in 2014 and a first, in 2012, very serious, that affected all our territory; in 2016 the drought, in 2018 the bad weather. Unfortunately, every year we suffer damage to our sector. And yet, we roll up our sleeves and move on. Now we find ourselves once again faced with perplexity: we pass from the centimeters of a few years ago of a courgett or a cucumber, to a boil to affix on our products. Our products are excellence, the result of over 300 designations of controlled origin. On this we must be united - I am addressing the whole House - in pursuing the name of our agriculture. I would like to hear about something else, perhaps, for example, the predation, the daily attacks that our sheep farmers suffer; even at this moment there will certainly be an attack in a flock, and maybe a shepherd will be desperate and will see a future all black ahead of him. We must try to act on this right away; on the damage that we also have to bear in mind to all our activities by the Antilles, which are also a serious problem for agriculture. This was the time to talk, to encourage the repopulation of our abandoned mountain areas; to encourage our young people to believe in a future of Italian agriculture, because, unfortunately, our young people cannot see a future and are not inclined to be involved in agriculture. Certainly it is tiring, there are no periods of celebration, we work 24 hours; perhaps sometimes bad weather brings us serious damage; but agriculture is first of all passion and love for its territory. We farmers are the first to love our territory and we want to make an agricultural product of excellence. We really don't want to see this bubble, which for us would really be a mystification, there are no other words. As Forza Italia we are opposed to all this and we ask the Government to bring the voice of farmers into all possible institutions. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u16	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Largo San Pio" in Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u18	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that if there is an almost totaling majority in this House but also, in a translated way, in the country it is the one that unites us in considering positive commitments to combat chronic diseases (such as diabetes), cardiovascular and respiratory diseases, cancer. Not only that: the same momentum and the same sharing we would obtain in the case, all Italian, of the defense of the extraordinaryness of our agri-food excellences. Two are the themes: the contrast to non-communicable diseases, better known with the acronym NCD (Non Communicable Diseases), and the defense of our products that, in my opinion, share and must continue to share a path of positive influence that the second exerts in a winning way on the first. UNESCO's recognition of the Mediterranean diet as a World Heritage Site is, in fact, the highest point for the valorization and ennobling of authentic expressions of knowledge and culture: a cultural goal, supported by clear statistical data, which recognize Italy as one of the highest life expectancy in the world, which does not hide the numerous and positive repercussions that a given diet, based on certain products, has in the area of health. This is the perimeter, therefore, that we face today with the motion under consideration. The primacy of biodiversity, combined with the even more ennobling processing and processing capacity of food matured over the centuries, is the basis on which our boundless made in Italy agri-food. The appointment of the next few days for this becomes particularly important. Over and over again we have seen how the pursuit of noble ends can then actually translate into decisions and initiatives paradoxically penalising and mortifying of the aims in charge and unfortunately the issue under consideration today risks to fall within this circle, that is to say, risk being subject to this paradox. The decision of the World Health Organization to commit States to reducing the negative impact of foods rich in saturated fats, salt and sugar, in order to combat diabetes, cancer and cardiovascular diseases, is a subject that we agree on, because the numbers are creepy: every year 15 million deaths worldwide for these diseases. Therefore, the objective of reducing premature NCD mortality by one third by 2030 is undoubtedly a commitment to be made and shared. Unfortunately, however, this union of intent is likely to fail since this organism has begun to produce documents and recommendations that use excessively generic expressions, such as non-healthy........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This binary mode, almost Manichea, is not able to understand, contemplate and therefore respect the vast Italian agri-food heritage. It is a strongly contested approach, which seemed to have been overcome at first. On the other hand, last November, seven countries, including France, again presented a resolution containing measures that I do not exaggerate in defining "talebane," because products such as Parmesan cheese and ham, just to make two known examples, would be put to the index and completely unreasonable. The solution, which I do not hesitate to propose and which I hope the Government will make its own, is therefore to assert the principle that there are food styles more or less healthy and not food in itself and in itself unhealthy, also because the contradiction of the methodology of the label at traffic lights would not be late to manifest, since it would assign - paradox of paradoxes - a green signal to Diet Coke and a red card, instead, to a slice of ham. If we fail to get this message through, the damage that awaits us is truly enormous. We can in fact believe that what is happening in Chile is only a small advance of what we must continue to avoid. Chile adopted at the beginning of this year the use of black bubbles on foods considered unhealthy, such as dumplings, ham, gorgonzola; well, our exports collapsed by 12 percent in the first seven months of 2018 compared to the previous year. If we put together this emotional but also economic reaction with export value of as much as 41 billion of 2017 we have the opportunity to understand the importance of the next and imminent appointment and the obligation that the Government has to produce in a strategy aimed at defending our food culture, which moreover - it is worth adding - represents an element of appeal also in a tourist key, representing the main source of inspiration of food and wine tourism. Our food and wine - I remember also in this circumstance - represents the second tourist attraction of Italy after the art and the first reason for appreciation of foreign tourists after a holiday in our country. The Italian agri-food heritage, which is threatened by this poor methodology, is today an element that can influence the travel choices, that satisfies the needs of the contemporary tourist, his desire to know the culture and local traditions, the desire to rediscover the psychophysical well-being through food, the need to live unique and unforgettable experiences. It will seem repetitive to remember how our agri-food industry holds together health, culture, history, traditions and economy. These realities combine, recombine, influence and condition without any possibility of separation For this reason, the government is strongly invited to work to avoid initiatives based on a wrong approach and with harmful consequences for the economy of our country, but also for our material and cultural heritage that is rooted in the noble soil of wisdom, tradition and dedication. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u19	Senator Pisani Pietro is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on these motions, and therefore the fact that we have to discuss and approve a motion to support and defend our products of made-in-Italy agri-food, really has something paradoxical. Some countries, led by France and Brazil, question the health of our products. We are discussing the fact that to be questioned are foods such as our cheeses, our cold cuts, our olive oil; culinary traditions of over 3,000 years, if you think about the origins of olive oil, the Grana cheese that dates back to the early Middle Ages around the year 1000 and many other foods that for centuries have been part of the diet of our ancestors and today risk being labeled as dangerous, perhaps with a red boil as happens already in France and Great Britain. There is actually something wrong with all this. I remember with pleasure the British Prime Minister Tony Blair who in 2006, to combat childhood obesity in schools, said enough to fatty foods in school classrooms and banned, rightly, the vending machines of crisps and carbonated drinks. These are the foods that hurt your health. He started a food education course based specifically on the Mediterranean diet, a diet that works well. The Mediterranean diet has been an intangible heritage of humanity for several years, but it is based on a whole series of dietary behaviors that mainly contain products from our country. A little bit of this today, a little bit of that other tomorrow, a little bit of movement, and it all works out. The Mediterranean diet is the right balance. It is clear that if I eat sausages at breakfast, lunch and dinner from Monday to Sunday some problem of obesity over time I can also find it, indeed certainly the answer. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] But from this thinking of putting a red stamp on sausages, cold cuts, or cheeses, passes! We must protect the Italian agri-food industry and defend our food model from the attacks of those who propose the introduction of restrictive policies and regulations that affect specific food products in order to respond to the growing problem of obesity - even if these things do good only to the god money, which has now imposed itself all over the world - and other diseases related to lifestyles, based on the practice of so-called food traffic lights, warnings of danger on packaging and taxation aimed at the marketing of our products. Such measures do not always enjoy sound scientific evidence, but risk misleading the consumer through a synthetic judgment on the so-called nutritional quality of the individual food, cataloging it as healthy, unhealthy or harmful to health. In fact consumers look first at the color of the traffic light and are oriented by this on the purchase of the product, without actually looking at the goodness of the food. It is diets and diets that must be healthy and balanced, not the arbitrary judgement attributed to individual products. This is what scientific evidence and research tell us; this is what our ministers responsible for agri-food, nutrition and health repeat in all locations. We will continue with conviction the action to protect in the UN headquarters and in other international fora the extraordinary quality of our typical products, at the basis of the Mediterranean diet. It is important to promote food education and the correct information of consumers, while protecting the interests of operators in the sector. Proper consumer information is important, excluding the classification of healthy and unhealthy foods. It is necessary to balance the health protection of consumers with the interests of the Italian industry in the sector, especially that of quality products, products with a protected designation of origin (PDO) and protected geographical indication (PGI), linked to specifications which do not allow the composition of those products to be altered. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u21	Senator Serafini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u22	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Italian food and cultural heritage comprises two sectors which are essential for the economic growth of our country. These are sectors that are not in crisis as welcome and that continue to be a reason for international interest, with exports of quality products to the markets, and tourist flows, which appreciate not only the works of art, but also our products to origin and protected geographical indication and to traditional specialities guaranteed. In 2017 there were 41 billion euros of sales abroad. These high quality products are an element not only of competitiveness, but also of strengthening local economies. Through these products, villages can be rediscovered and their depopulation can be avoided. It can therefore be pleased to note that in 2017 the positive trend of quality agri-food products has strengthened, in particular fruit and vegetables, cereals and extra-virgin olive oils. Of course it is necessary to support the quality of our products with specific national policies and with requests for intervention in Europe, as in the case of rice, for which Italy since 2014 has requested the introduction of measures to protect the rice companies from imports of rice at zero duty from third countries, and this not only to avoid a collapse of the Italian and European market - which has happened - but also to protect the health of the consumer. I consider important the recognition that the Senate is giving through specific rules that affect the protection of Italian agro-food and the valorization of small agricultural products of local origin, whose aim is to promote the production, processing and sale of small quantities of primary and processed food products, of animal or vegetable origin, obtained from farm productions recognizable from a specific indication on the label. A label that for the consumer offers guarantee of quality, goodness, genuineness and safety of the purchased product. This will improve the quality and international perception of the Italian agri-food product as a whole and will increase the share of GDP it represents, going well beyond the current 17%. Protection of this sector is also essential in terms of employment: there are more than 800,000 workers only in the primary sector and more than 70,000 companies run by entrepreneurs under 40 years of age. A protection that must find further support for the promotion of our excellence in innovation in agriculture and national policies. I agree with the principle that the protection of the identity and reputation of Italian food can be guaranteed through a system of efficient quality and health controls, functional to combat that scourge for businesses and the less attentive consumer that is Italian soiling and its unfair practices. With regard to the protection of Italian agri-food, the problem of climate change should not be underestimated, which will determine, if it does not have a solution, a very strong impact on eating habits and agricultural productions. For the 9 billion citizens who will populate the world by 2050 farmers will have to produce enough food, producing more with probably less fertile land. Finally, I believe that the protection of Italian agri-food cannot be established without support for Made in Italy production, as well as an international policy for agri-food companies (with initiatives to accompany companies abroad), bureaucratic and administrative simplification; the finding of skilled and skilled workers, the recognition of the fundamental role that research and innovation play in improving the agri-food sector (from production to processing, trade and distribution) and, finally, a particular attention to accident prevention. In conclusion, agri-food, which represents the history of our country, is necessarily accompanied by effective policies on the health of the person; two elements, food and health, which determine the quality of our daily life. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u23	She's enlisted to speak Senator Abbot. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u24	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that there is a high level of alert for Made in Italy agri-food. On 12 November, at the second committee of the UN General Assembly, the seven countries of the Foreign Policy and Global Health Group presented a resolution containing among other things the contested paragraph "kill-products." Exiting the door, as has already been mitigated by the UN Summit on 27 September, the World Health Organization's proposal to introduce taxes, red traffic lights, labels penalising large black stamps on foods and drinks defined as non-healthy is to be seen from the window. Non-healthy foods that, according to the technicians of the World Health Organization, are those that exceed certain thresholds of salts, fats and sugars; an indication that, if approved, would severely and irreparably penalize all our food excellences (extra virgin olive oil, ham, cheese, pasta, wines and desserts). The negotiations on the resolution, in order to try to identify a common position, are already under way and are being carried out by the seven signatory countries, namely Brazil, France, Norway, Indonesia, South Africa, Thailand and Senegal, which discuss separately with the European Union, the United States, the G7, a group of countries composed of 134 small developing countries and other UN members. If the resolution were to be adopted, all countries would be allowed to put labels with gigantic black bubbles or red traffic lights on our food and drink - which I once again want to define our excellences - with serious consequences for our Made in Italy, a very important voice in our economy which, as we have repeatedly said in this House, is worth 41 billion euros a year and is also expanding. So, synthesizing, this new attack (because of attack it is) aims to hit the foods that contain sugars, fats and salt, asking to prepare a special nutritional label and to reformulate the recipes - listen well - on the basis of an artificial food model inspired by the multinationals and that in fact endangers the future of the products made in Italy from the centuries-old traditions, transmitted by generations of farmers, who with many sacrifices have committed themselves to keep everything unchanged over time. A heritage that is the basis of the Mediterranean diet and that has allowed Italy the highest percentage of 80-year-olds in Europe (7 percent of the population), but also a hope and quality of life that is among the highest in the world and is 80.6 years for men and 85 for women. This impact of the quality of our products on health was also recognised with the inclusion of the Mediterranean diet in the UNESCO list of intangible cultural heritage on 16 November 2010. It is not negligible that all the exceptions, at the formal level, that the resolution presents, together with serious criticalities. First of all, it is not possible to put forward a subject which - as previous speakers have pointed out - has already been clarified at the highest political level of the UN. The resolution also speaks of healthy and unhealthy foods, an indication not supported by science and this is a passage that must make us think a lot. In fact, science speaks of healthy and unhealthy diets, not of food. The third critical issue, which is the one that must make us think even more, is the position of France, a country that signed the resolution without having, however, agreed it with the countries of the European Union. I shall conclude by saying: let us defend ourselves from this mortal assault on our economy and our health, an attack that has no scientific feedback and is therefore irrational and unmotivated. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u25	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u28	VALLARDI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, after listening to the other motions put forward by my fellow Members, I note that there is a strong convergence, if not 100%, at 98%. I would therefore ask for a few minutes' suspension. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's 2% that worries me. VALLARDI (L-SP-PSd'Az). We're optimistic. I believe that, in the interests of farmers, we will be able to achieve convergence in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u29	Without comment, I suspend the sitting until 11 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 10.45 a.m. and resumed at 11.04 a.m.) I would like to say that an agenda has been received, the text of which will be distributed, and I would ask the authors to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u30	Mr President, since we have come to a convergence with regard to the commitment to the Government, on which we have all expressed a favourable opinion, I shall be reading the agenda. With point 1, we commit the Government to defend, with the utmost determination, the Italian agri-food sector in all international political and diplomatic fora, in particular at the UN (and in its agencies such as WHO and FAO) and within the European Union. With point 2, we commit the Government to act with all the tools at its disposal in the ongoing UN negotiation to counter the further spread of the labelling at traffic lights on food products, in order instead to promote the use of labelling systems that give correct nutritional information and indicate the origin of the main ingredients used. In point 3 we commit the Government to put in place and continue to carry out a prompt and decisive diplomatic action at international level to delete or strongly modify the resolution presented within the framework of the initiative "Global health and foreign politics" under discussion at the UN Assembly, in order to avoid the unfair consequences that the approval of this document would have for the Italian agri-food sector and in particular for Italian exports. In point 4 we commit the Government to start a comparison, in the appropriate locations, in order to clarify the aims that have led France and the seven Countries proposing to promote this initiative in collaboration with non-European countries without a prior agreement with the other European Member States. France, despite being a country which, in a way that is entirely similar to Italy, boasts many agro-food products with a designation of origin and geographical indication, recognised by the European Union, could damage these products and, if this document was approved without modifications, it itself exposes itself to being severely penalized. In point 5, which is the last, we commit the Government to promoting campaigns to encourage balanced diets in Italy, where all the healthy foods of the Italian diet are present.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u33	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Group, I withdraw motion No 57 and subscribe to the G100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u36	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I withdraw motion No 61 and subscribe to the G100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u39	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I withdraw motion No 62 and subscribe to the G100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u42	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we withdraw the G1 agenda and subscribe to the G100 agenda, which, with its various commitments, is the exact summary of the debate that has taken place and also of our agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u43	I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u44	Mr President, in my report I will take stock of the situation and describe the state of the art of what is happening outside our borders. Every effective contribution of this Ministry to the current debate in Europe on the subject is aimed at achieving a common system of nutrition labelling front of pack clear, understandable, really informative and - above all - non-discriminatory of Made in Italy, in the full conviction of having to defend and guarantee Italian excellence in the agro-food sector. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Italy has always promoted, promoted and promoted the Mediterranean diet, a nutritional model that has remained constant over time that UNESCO - as many colleagues have said and as is well known - has declared an intangible heritage of humanity. In line with the most established scientific guidelines, the Ministry of Health and this Ministry have always considered fundamental the totality of the diet and not the individual food, avoiding to classify the food in good and bad, because they must be commensurate to the needs of the individual and not judged in the context of a simple standardised evaluation. The reduction of particular nutrients (such as, for example, sugars and fats), through the identification of simple numerical targets, cannot be accepted because it is not only difficult to achieve, but also of doubtful effectiveness. In recent years there has been a growing tendency to use indicators that do not always have a scientific basis and to demonize individual ingredients such as fats or sugars, but without considering that there are cooking techniques that can affect the composition of foods and change the nutritional quality of the foods themselves. This trend could also lead to the elimination of certain foods that are part of the Mediterranean diet and which are now appreciated worldwide, causing dangerous nutritional imbalances. The strategy currently adopted by the Ministry of Health provides for far-reaching measures, in an attempt also to counter the negative consequences of overweight and obesity, especially among children. Following the European line of action, we support initiatives that, through effective interventions and the involvement of selected partners, can move in the direction of cross-sectorality, addressing not only the nutritional aspect, but also the wide range of health factors of the child, first, and then the adult. In line with the guidelines suggested by the European Union, which called on the Member States to commit themselves to a comprehensive approach to reducing saturated fats, trans fats and added sugars in sugary drinks and solid foods, the Ministry of Health has reached the drafting of two documents aimed, on the one hand, at regulating the promotion of food for children and, on the other hand, at sharing some objectives of improving the nutritional quality of products consumed by children between the ages of three and twelve. This is why assessment systems based on nutritional profiles must be avoided, or even less graphic representations that unfairly place the emphasis on the composition of the individual product, regardless of the mode and frequency of consumption. These issues are of strategic importance for this Ministry, as the application of systems such as traffic light (i.e. traffic light labelling) and French numer-score, should it be chosen as a model by the European Commission, could have discriminatory effects especially on those Italian products recognised at European level as national heritage (Protected Designation of Origin, Protected Geographical Indication, Traditional Speciality Guaranteed), which are legally obliged to maintain certain levels of nutrients, provided for by the production regulations to protect traditions and especially consumers. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] As regards the prevention and control of non-communicable diseases, Italy considers it a priority to combat risk factors and promote health determinants through a holistic approach that favours the prevention of chronic diseases and multi-sectoral interventions, involving more public administrations and civil society, and incentives for healthy lifestyles, regular physical activity and healthy, balanced and sustainable diets. Precisely the prevention and control of the Noncommunicable Diseases (NCDs) have recently been the subject of discussion within the third High-Level meeting at the 73rd UN General Assembly on 27 September last where, thanks to the incisive action of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and international cooperation, the definitive version of the political declaration on the NCDs, containing a very balanced text, of wide political scope, in line with the Italian interests of health protection and the excellence of Made in Italy in the agri-food sector, was approved. This final document was then formally adopted by the General Assembly by a resolution dated 10 October 2018. As foreseen in the political declaration, the Secretary-General of the United Nations will then be required to produce a consultation relationship with the membership in collaboration with the World Health Organisation on progress in the fight against non-communicable diseases and on the implementation of the final document by 2024, with a view to a high-level political event of overall review in 2025. However, in the context of more recent developments within the World Health Organization, some countries have been promoting a resolution that tries to re-introduce the concept of unhealthy foods and the exhortation to governments to adopt restrictive measures on the commercial level - this is what we are puzzled about: restrictive trade measures - potentially damaging on the foreign markets of excellence and typical agro-food made in Italy and 100 percent Italian. Subsequently, Italy's permanent representative in Geneva intervened at the meeting of the Global Coordination Mechanism for the prevention and control of non-communicable diseases, held on 5 and 6 November last, attended by the Ministry of Health and the President of Federalimentare. In his speech, the permanent representative of Italy in Geneva recalled the successful outcome of the above-mentioned summit held in New York on 27 September and the final declaration on the subject, with balanced and constructive content, thanks to the leading role of the Italian negotiators. The ambassador has stigmatized several attempts to go beyond the consensus achieved by the aforementioned political declaration of 27 September, reinterpreting the will of the Member States, misunderstanding the commitments made by the State and citing measures that were rejected during the negotiations. He mentioned the content of a press release issued by the World Health Organisation immediately after the high-level event, which recalled the concepts of foods harmful to health and other harmful products, which were not reflected in the text of the political declaration, which refers only to non-healthy diets and lifestyles. The action of Italian diplomacy has led the Secretary of the World Health Organization to correct the press release. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] On 12 November, as part of the Global health and foreign policy initiative (GHFP), involving seven countries (Brazil, France, Norway, Senegal, South Africa, Thailand and Indonesia), Brazil presented a draft resolution to the UN General Assembly addressing various health issues with a focus on nutrition. If the text is widely shared by the Italian side, the Farnesina immediately noted the critical series related to the formulation of the operating paragraph 7. In particular, we have denounced the attempt to pass on the notion that certain foods themselves would be harmful to health and criticised the call on Member States to adopt restrictive policies aimed at reducing their consumption, including the imposition of taxes, package-front traffic labelling systems and other restrictions on the marketing and marketing of certain foods. As you rightly said, ladies and gentlemen, we are under attack. The resolution proposed by the Group therefore risked seriously damaging our agri-food industry, its reputation and its image of quality on foreign markets, ultimately compromising the excellent results achieved on 27 September. On that occasion, Italy's commitment as a co-facilitator made it possible to negotiate a very balanced, politically cutting final document without prescriptive recommendations on national nutrition policies. As indicated by our administrations, in all European and international fora, the abstract classifications of individual foods do not have an adequate scientific basis but are, on the other hand, liable to damage our agri-food in many markets relevant to export. In addition, the Italian position is that policies that claim and target individual nutrients are misleading for consumers, who should instead be educated on a varied and healthy diet. That is why Italy has always opposed the so-called traffic light labelling systems, both inside and outside Europe. With regard to Brazil's new resolution on nutrition, Farnesina has therefore immediately sought to balance its contents. Since the beginning of the debate at the United Nations in these days, both in plenary and in European conciliation meetings, the objective of the MAECI has been to eliminate the call for restrictive food policies, which would ultimately affect traditional and healthy diets, by promoting the purchase of reworded products at the expense of natural food produced by farmers and local producers. After more than two weeks of intense confrontation, negotiations are still under way in these same hours. As anticipated by Brazil, it should be concluded by Friday 7 December with the finalisation of a document to be submitted for approval by the General Assembly around mid-December. The Italian action did not focus solely on the negotiators directly committed to the United Nations, with the Italian permanent representation on the front line and the sending of an official specially appointed by Rome. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation wanted to involve directly the Italian representation in Geneva, which has effectively intervened against the World Health Organization, obtaining correction of some communications and reports of the secretariat, which were currently inaccurate and which risked misleading the Member States, reinterpreting the will of the Heads of State and Government on the decisions taken consensually on 27 September last. It is very serious what is happening against our country. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Moreover, on precise ministerial instructions, Italian ambassadors in the capitals of the proposing countries took a series of targeted steps with the local authorities to induce them to reconsider their initial position. At the same time, further awareness-raising action was carried out in order to seek alliances between the countries participating in the Mediterranean diet, traditionally close to the Italian position. Thanks to the firm and articulated action of Italian diplomacy, we can express satisfaction for having managed to expunge in advance from the text, still under discussion, the most extreme languages and to bring back the confrontation on a proposal of possible compromise. According to the information coming in these hours from New York, this text should fully correspond to Italian expectations as it includes a general reference to the political declaration adopted by the Heads of State and Government on 27 September and its full implementation. Synergic action with other administrations directly concerned has been carried out in constant dialogue with the representation of business and professional organisations in the sector, in order to better protect the legitimate interests of our country. As for the above, I reiterate the maximum incisiveness and determination in defending the role of Italy in all areas in which health policies are defined with potential impact on the production and marketing of quality Italian food products and abroad. The above does not exhaust the action to protect Italian interests, for which we will continue to keep high attention in international forums, in which we discuss nutritional issues, with the support of all the competent administrations that I want to thank one by one: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, the Ministry that I represent, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Economic Development. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the fact that the words I have heard today really give rise to the desire and intention to work together, regardless of the parliamentary groups that belong to us, in order to be able to protect our products, our agriculture and our made in Italy. The fact that the Senate has managed to obtain a common document, which has agreed on all the interests and above all the sensibilities of the senators present, I think it can fill us with pride. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u45	We shall now proceed to the vote on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u48	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, as has already been said, we shall be voting in favour of the common and united agenda. It is very important that we have managed to form a united position. I would like to repeat - as I have already said in presenting the agenda that I had presented - that what is happening is very serious. Not only are the interests of our country and our agri-food system at stake, certainly not secondary: the issue is absolutely crucial because it concerns the health of our citizens. As far as we are concerned, if you pass this part of the resolution to the UN, the economic damage will be considerable. I would like to remind all of us that the agri-food sector in previous years has guaranteed very important export figures, even in times of crisis. It is absolutely paradoxical that, on the one hand, a UN body, such as UNESCO, recognizes the Mediterranean diet as a value and heritage of humanity and, on the other hand, we proceed with a very strange interpretation of foods considered to be harmful to the health of citizens, to the detriment of local production, agricultural production and products with a designation of origin. We must continue to oppose the resolution and the position taken at the UN and also fight, also at European and international level, for the transparency of labelling systems, so that they provide the correct nutritional information and, above all, the origin of the main ingredients used. The interests are clear and very clear. If we think that some drinks that none of us would give our children will have the green light, and others of our production, such as - for example - the fruit juices would have the red light, we understand perfectly who is working to pass this strange interpretation of the label. It is once again the great industrial systems of food transformation, the multinationals that want to kill the products of agriculture linked to the territory and that together represent not only the history of the country, but also the great added value of traditional knowledge and good food related to all interpretations, even the most incredible, even from the scientific point of view, healthy for all citizens. For this reason I invite you - and it is important that it is on the agenda - to continue the campaign of food education because this strongly strengthens the values of the Mediterranean diet and, therefore, of the Made in Italy and our agri-food system. [[Applause from the Misto-Leu Group and the Senators Buccarella and Martelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u49	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the State Institute of Higher Education (Giuseppe Di Vittorio) in Ladispoli, in the province of Rome, who are attending our work from the tribune. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u52	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, we are convinced that the Government must work to protect the interests of the Italian agri-food industry, not least because we must not forget that this sector already suffers the economic damage caused by counterfeiting, with a loss of several billion euros per year. On the other hand, I believe that we must work to promote the culture of healthy and quality food. And I believe that greater information on the composition of food is always a positive fact, which must be easy to understand by the consumer in order to make him understand immediately the composition, especially of compound foods. The traffic light is not a bad idea, but it cannot be passed as the same foods as extra virgin olive oil and a pack of snacks from the hard discount. A labelling system that puts these two products on the same footing is certainly false and harmful to consumers. We have all read what is happening in Britain, where the adoption of such a system has caused healthy foods to disappear from the tables to be replaced by others where sweeteners have replaced sugars, and whose composition is unknown. International institutions, on the other hand, should do more to protect products with a designation of origin and a diet such as the Mediterranean diet that nutritionists recognize as the most effective in preventing a whole range of diseases. We believe that Italy cannot stand still in the face of this risk, which is not only of an economic nature, but above all concerns the health of its citizens. That is why every initiative aimed at protecting agri-food and consumers is welcome, but it must be stressed that the attitude must be not that of the wall against the wall, but that of the strength of the arguments. Protecting the right to quality food is fair and lawful. However, we do not want the protection of agri-food to be used instrumentally to discredit the UN in view of the global compact debate. There have been too many clashes with the international institutions of Italy in recent months, and it does not seem to us to have gained much, indeed. That said, our Group will vote in favour of the unitary agenda. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV) and Senator Rojc.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u55	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, I am very pleased that this House has spoken on such an important issue, which goes beyond the defence of our agri-food products. Defending our products means, in fact, defending our identity, our culture. Our products derive precisely from this and, therefore, also means defending our national sovereignty. We are therefore satisfied, as the Brothers of Italy Group, that we have achieved a unity of intent within this Assembly, where - with a unitary agenda - we mandate the Government to defend in all institutional fora our identity, our culture, our sovereignty, through precisely the defence of our agricultural products. We therefore express full satisfaction and sharing of the work we have done. I do not want to add much in this regard, Minister, by restricting myself only to a very brief reflection on what is, in particular, our relationship with the cousins of Oltralpe and, therefore, within the European Union. It is clear that, if we are within a system that should see us as a community, we do not understand objectively the reasons for such a strong attack, if it is true - according to the papers - that France was the promoter of the initiative together with countries of South America such as Brazil. We do not understand, then, what the sense of this unity, of this community can be, because, on the contrary, we should all defend the European agricultural sector together. It is clear that attacking our agricultural sector for business interests, by trying to ensure that our products are considered harmful to health, can also damage many French products, but, above all, it harms the whole European agricultural system. On this I believe that the Government must make a profound reflection and, above all, understand the relations that bind us with our cousins of Oltralpe, also because I must say, Minister, that this is not the first case of such a strong attack on the part of France. This is not the first time that we have to undergo, even in other contexts, the morale of those who stand up to us and often behave differently. Having said that, I hope that the Government will be able to clarify these positions in a strong and determined manner in the right institutional fora, which I think are also important for the continuation of international trade relations. On the part of the Brothers of Italy Group there is therefore the greatest satisfaction and we will vote in favour of the agenda G100, also because - as is now known - when it comes to national interests, Brothers of Italy is always present. [[Applause from the FdI Group and L-SP-PSd'Az.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u58	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, we know how much what we are about to approve could affect our exports if we were to move forward with the most extreme versions announced. We are aware of how much this would affect our traditional productions, our PGIs and, therefore, the typical products we have. We know how much our diet, the Mediterranean diet, is basically the basis of success, both tourist and receptive, and the appreciation that the world has for our products. We know how our typical agriculture, in its cheeses, in cold cuts, in vegetable processing, in fruit and in desserts, is fundamental for the keeping of our territories, as an extraordinary tool for safeguarding our areas in many more marginal cases. We know that this is very important and we must bear this in mind. We believe, however, that this is a battle to be carried out in a unified way and I too want to express my full appreciation for the unitary agenda that has been presented, which certainly gives more strength to the Government in the actions that it will then take concretely. We want to carry out this battle because we are convinced that it is the best way to protect the health of citizens, to safeguard the quality of life prospects of citizens, and not only in our country, but throughout the world. We are not for nothing convinced that the UNESCO award given to the Mediterranean diet is not a kind of bubble to attack on some product, but the recognition of a food style, a lifestyle, which produces in concrete results important on the quality and health of life of citizens. It may be a coincidence, but the fact that life expectancy in our country is among the highest in the world, both in terms of longevity and quality, I think is testifying on the carpet all this. We will therefore conduct this battle precisely in the direction of the aims announced by what we have put on the ground and which we are discussing. We are talking about the protection of citizens against cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and cancer; we are talking about ways in which to really give weight and transparency to the content of products. We are absolutely in favour of the fact that the citizen must have the maximum information and we are convinced that it is not by giving data on the concentration of salts, sugars and fats on the individual product that we make the effort and that it gives this kind of result. We firmly believe that the theme is food styles and lifestyles and it is for this reason that we ask the Government to make as much effort as possible in this direction, in the conviction that it is essential to work on these issues by working on two fronts: on the one hand, providing data, with studies that testify to what we are saying and, on the other, creating alliances. Only if this issue is widely shared will we be able to bring home the results that the health of our citizens and the prospects of our agriculture, which is working in the direction of health, require. That is why the Democratic Party will vote in favour of this agenda. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Laniece.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u61	Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have tried to understand why the idea of discriminating against the best Italian products through what we can define unfair practices worldwide, through taxation, discriminatory labels, restrictions, or even prohibitions, marketing and marketing. I have come to the conclusion that this is a consequence of the adoption by the World Health Organization and several countries of so-called nutritional profiles. For those who do not know, nutritional profiles are a method of classification of foods, which punishes foods with greater amounts of fats, salts and sugars, regardless of the general quality of the product and the rest of its ingredients. We cannot and must not allow commercial and industrial reasons to impose on Italians a trivialization of the diet as chemical components. This concept, which is not really medicine, is not only foreign to our culture, our tradition and our food and wine history, as the Minister said well, but would certainly also damage the health of our citizens. The science of nutrition, in fact, clearly says that nutritional profiles are a markedly ideological and non-scientific concept. In essence, they are not supported by any scientific evidence. Not surprisingly, in 2016, twice, in April and July, the European Parliament voted by a large majority against nutritional profiles. The European Food Safety Authority, EFSA, in an opinion of 2008, also expressed all the intrinsic limits of nutritional profiles as a method of classification of foods, especially because each food is modified during preparation and interaction with other foods. Overall, I think that two considerations are important on all: the first is that the nutritional profiles end up classifying all foods as good or bad and this is profoundly wrong. The science of nutrition tells us that there are no good or bad foods, but diets, that is combinations of foods, good or bad. Any food may be part of a balanced diet, provided it is ingested in appropriate quantities. The second is that the recent findings of the prestigious Weizmann Institute on the value of personalized diet have shown in all evidence that the same food can have and has an effect on good or bad health depending on who eats it. This is because we must not focus solely on food, but on the individual who takes it. Each person has his own physical conformation, has his own metabolism, his own glycemic response and his own intestinal system, from which comes the body's response to food. To indicate foods as good or bad, regardless of and for anyone, is an approach not only bankrupt, but potentially counterproductive, because it could induce someone to prefer foods, which are not even good for those who swallow them. These health considerations must be added to those of an economic nature which are widely shared by the whole of this House. If the proposals launched by the seven countries led by Brazil and France were accepted, the damage to our country would be devastating. The entire Italian food sector accounts for almost a tenth of our gross domestic product and employs more than 3 million workers. There are over 1,300,000 companies in this sector, between small, medium and large. A large number of our export products would be labeled immediately as harmful to health, causing not only a certain contraction in the sales of our excellences, but also a very serious damage to the reputation of Made in Italy, which is instead highly appreciated all over the world and of which we must fight counterfeiting. The fact that the entire Senate Assembly has firmly signed the agenda - and I thank my colleagues for that - must be an important warning for those who have the intention of attacking every day their eating habits, symbolized by our Mediterranean diet, now recognized by UNESCO - as has been well said before - as an immaterial heritage of humanity. Look, I no longer want to quote the absurd situation for which the French Government has called us into question, led by the incomprehensible action of President Macron, who I believe that in these days, instead of thinking about the motions of the UN, he probably has other problems to think about within his country, namely the very serious economic and social problems and a civil protest, which has been activated. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We will not allow anyone to attack the quality of our productions, our economic growth and the health of our citizens. Mr President, we are for the right to health, but for real health and for all citizens. It will certainly not make us impose a superficial classification for our agri-food products, not supported by scientific data, which will promote the well-being of the population. We are attentive to progress and also to studies, which are proceeding well, on our beloved Mediterranean diet, which every day contributes to the health of all of us. We therefore have a duty to oppose any motion against our products and healthy and healthy products. By voting firmly on this agenda, we have a duty to defend our health, our traditions and our economy: first the Italians, always! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u64	BACTISTONI (FI-BP). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to speak on such an important subject for our country and for our economy. Reading these attacks on the part of seven nations must make us reflect and lead us to reason unitedly in the face of these problems, because this is not the first time that our diet and in particular the Mediterranean diet are under attack. In November 2010, we received UNESCO's recognition of the Mediterranean diet as an intangible cultural heritage. I can only read you the first period of the explanatory statement, which reads: The Mediterranean diet includes a range of skills, knowledge, rituals, symbols and traditions, ranging from landscape to table, including cultivation, harvesting, fishing, breeding, conservation, cooking and, above all, sharing and consuming food. All these things, put together, in fact make a kind of national identity and we must defend our products and our traditions just as if we were to defend our national identity. Recently, at the end of October, delegated by the Commission, I participated with my colleague Mr Mollame in an international summit of parliaments to address the problems of obesity and malnutrition in the world. You see, we came out of that meeting a little 'worried, because - not to mention names - Senator Girardi, of Chile, in his report he carried out an attack against our food regime of unprecedented violence, citing also products. I then went to document. Since he attributed to our products, especially those derived from hazelnuts (and the Minister knows how important the hazelnut is for our agricultural economy), the cause of obesity that exists in the world, I went to see the table of obesity made by the World Health Organization and I found that Chile, which has already put these signs of danger on some of our products, is in third place, indeed the second, according to the latest calculations, while Italy, which instead makes a lot and good use of these products, is in third place. So it's a problem not of diet, but of proper consumption. In our country, in fact, also thanks to the great attention that has been placed to the labelling of products, the consumer implements a sort of conscious consumption: our consumers increasingly go to see the ingredients and, depending on the ingredients present, proceed to the purchases. This is one of many examples to show that really our diet is under attack, also because probably our healthy Mediterranean diet to some great international group is annoying. I am convinced that the unity found today on this agenda should always be a unity to be demonstrated outside, especially in other international fora, also because, recently, there has been a demonstration in the European Parliament that, when our parliamentarians are able to cope together, then the results arrive. One on all: a few days ago the resolution on duties on rice was voted on. The duties that will be placed on rice mainly Asian, will guarantee our producers and rice growers, also because it was a sector that, because of this import, was in great danger. But not only that: ten days ago, the European Parliament - and I believe this must be welcomed by all with great satisfaction - voted against the cuts to the CAP and we know very well that the agri-food sector was likely to be the most penalised by Brexit, which is now in fact at its final stages. Given that the agri-food sector was worth more than 41 billion in 2017 in terms of exports and that there was a 6% increase compared to 2016, Minister, I believe that all the actions that are hoped for on this agenda should be carried out with strength and conviction. That is why I am convinced that a sector such as agriculture which unfortunately - as we mentioned last week during the question time - has not only suffered serious damage due to atmospheric events, but is now also subject to other dangers, as Mr Berardi said this morning, such as the damage caused by wildlife, must be protected to the best of our possibilities. When we do this kind of battle, we will be at the forefront of defending agriculture, our farmers and all agri-food production. That is why I am pleased to announce the vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group on the agenda G100. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u67	MOLLAME (M5S). Mr President, Minister, Senators and Senators, citizens, Italy, in its extraordinary diversity of soils, islands, climates, culture and customs, has always been synonymous with excellence in the world agri-food sector, and that is why our action has focused and must continue to focus on the protection of the quality of traditions and typicality. More generally, to safeguard that well-known brand and often taken also as a model: Made in Italy, the basic culture of our people. In the first eight months of 2018 the exports of the sector reported an increase of 3.4% compared to the same period last year. In 2017, Italian exports recorded the record figure of over 40 billion euros and in some areas, such as wine, consumers' purchases abroad exceeded those of ourselves Italians. This is evidence not only of an invaluable potential, but also and above all of the fact that the recovery of the economy and the growth of that notorious denominator referred to in the deficit-GDP ratio can and must begin above all from this primary and basic sector. What is happening at international level can, however, be uncomfortable and we have repeated this in so many people in this House. I am referring specifically to the repositioning of a document at the United Nations Organization (promoted by seven countries: France, Brazil, Norway, Indonesia, South Africa, Thailand and Senegal), which has been by some unhappyly baptized as a resolution "mammazza made in Italy." We are talking about a text that should be discussed next 14 December in the UN Assembly at the end of the year, which could certainly cause serious damage and considerable damage to the sector to a primary sector of our economy, to one of the driving sectors of the same economy. Such a measure could affect the appreciation, fame and good name of our typical and unique products, even having a serious impact on exports. If this track were to be approved, in fact, the consequences would certainly be impacting: many typical food products would be improperly classified as harmful to health, like cigarettes. The production of thousands of small and medium-sized agricultural enterprises, which are the basic structure of this sector, from the Valle d'Aosta to the island of Lampedusa, would be called into question, giving lustre to our country with the products of a thousand-year-old agriculture spread all over the planet. Many jobs could be called into question and today, more than ever, we cannot Let's have it. Marco Porcio Cato, the censor who trampled these soils about twenty-two centuries ago, said: From agriculture comes the more honest, more stable, less suspicious profit: those who are employed in that activity do not have malevolent thoughts. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Berardi]] All this comes from an aberrant and bizarre classification of foods based on so-called food traffic lights, which distinguishes healthy foods from non-healthy foods through the affixing of a bottle that, depending on the content in exclusively quantitative and, therefore, non-qualitative terms, of fats, sugar or salt can be green, yellow or red. With this simplistic and improper classification about eighty percent of Italian agri-food products with a protected designation of origin could be subject to red bubbles, while, for absurd, juices and drinks containing sweeteners instead of sugars would be classified as healthy, with a nice green bubbles. In such a clear context, our prosciutti, our Piacenza cup, the padano grain, the Sardinian pecorino, the extra virgin olive oil Nocellara del Belice, the flagship flowers of our gastronomic production, would be recognized as products potentially harmful to health. It was already discussed in Madrid a few weeks ago at the FAO International Conference where, following some intervention that I also call folkloristic, I replied, on behalf of Italy, with an asserto, that was that of Ludwig Feuerbach, "We are what we eat." Therefore, we are fat, salts, water and much more, naturally in the right proportions. It is entirely LaPalissian that this unreasonable filing or cataloguing, not following any common sense rule, affects the virtues of the Mediterranean diet that, like many others have already had the opportunity to highlight, has become a UNESCO heritage since 2010 and a food model recognized at planetary level. It is the immaterial cultural heritage of humanity, from the landscape to the table. It seems a more than legitimate principle to predict that labels should contain exhaustive, transparent and detailed indications and we, like Movimento 5 Stars, have made it a primary objective. Equally legitimate is that consumers should be allowed to choose consciously what to drink or eat. This must be done through analytical and objective parameters, certainly not by biased, misleading or deterrent, deterrent or, worse, scary methods. Using three colors to encode the peculiarity of a product intended for our food is tantamount to mortifying, I dare say even to cheat hundreds of millions of consumers who appreciate our typicality. It is only on proper information and training that we must focus, not on proscription lists and bans, which would certainly become misleading. For these reasons, with the agenda that we are preparing to approve together, we intend to commit the Government to certain points, to which we cannot and must not derogate. First of all, it is necessary to protect the entire Italian agri-food sector with the utmost determination in all international political and diplomatic fora (at the UN, its agencies, the World Health Organisation and FAO, but also within the European Union). A prompt and determined diplomatic action must also be put in place to delete, that is to say to substantially amend the resolution presented in the framework of the initiative "World Health and Foreign Policy" under discussion in the UN Assembly: all this has the aim of preventing the dangerous and uncontrolled consequences that the approval of such a document could cause for the Italian agri-food sector and our exports. Finally, it will be necessary to start a comparison in the appropriate fora, so as to clarify the aims that have led the tenants of the Elysée to promote an initiative which is certainly detrimental to a European primary sector, which could also prove to be a boomerang for themselves. Finally, I would like to add that we have the highest number of certified organic production companies and trademarks for the geographical characteristics of Europe. Therefore, the defence of Italian products against the threat of international initiatives often penalising for quality - and, in general, damaging to our companies, to workers in the sector and to consumers - represents and should be a priority for action. It will be our care to work so that the essence of the most authentic patrimony of our country, that of the "agri-culture" (I specifically say this with the "u") is defended in every place. Made in Italy is the history, tradition and sweat of our ancestors and represents the work of all of us Italians. We therefore strongly vote on the agenda on which we have all joined together. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u68	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G100, presented by Senators Vallardi, Patuanelli, Bergesio, Battistoni, Taricco, La Pietra and De Petris. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u69	The next item is the joint debate on draft law 822 and documents LXXXVI, No 1, and LXXXVII, No 1. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur on draft law No 822, Senator Licheri, if he intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u70	Mr President, Mr Sfafe Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of a journey of interesting ideas for reflection and speeches, even of strong intellectual importance, which have nevertheless shown a sensitivity with regard to that feeling of belonging to the European Community, I feel obliged to thank every single member of the 14th The Commission, because together we have actually carried out a work that has seen us divided into some points and others has seen us agree, and this is certainly a sign of a political intelligence that I feel I recognize here. The draft European law 2018 was presented by the Government, fulfilling Law No 234 of 2012, in order to arrive at the filing of two infringement procedures and three EU-Pilot cases, as well as in order to prevent the opening of new procedures, ensuring the full implementation of two regulations, an international agreement concluded in the framework of the European Union's external relations and other Union legislation. During the exam in 14a Commission, to the thirteen articles of the Government's original proposal - relating to freedom of movement, justice and security, transport, taxation and customs, copyright, health protection and the environment - another six articles were added, aimed at resolving two infringement procedures on delays in public administration payments (Article 4 of the text proposed by the Commission) and on airport charges (Article 8 of the proposed text), one EU-Pilot case on the discipline of leather products (Article 5 of the proposed text) and two procedures for State aid relating to a contribution to the Isiamed Institute and facilities for biomass (Article 18 of the proposed text) and to prevent the opening of a further procedure for the new legislation on supervision of medical devices. In the Commission, eight agendas were then accepted by the Government on: recognition of professional qualifications; fixed-term contracts; restoration of infrastructure damaged by climate events; offsets and prunings, to provide priority use in compost production, to clarify that such use does not raise problems of compatibility with the Waste Directive and to facilitate the purchase of machinery necessary for their transformation; finally, mediation for collective management of copyright. I believe that a worthwhile work has been done by the entire Commission, with the fruitful collaboration of the Government and in particular of the Department for European policies directed by Minister Paolo Savona and the Undersecretary, Professor Barra Caracciolo, in order to further reduce the number of open infringement procedures. At present, they amount to a total of sixty-eight, eight of which are due to delays in the implementation of directives and sixty for the presence of national rules contrary to European directives or regulations. The text is therefore currently composed of nineteen articles. Article 1, as amended during the examination in the Commission, amends the rules on the recognition of professional qualifications laid down in Legislative Decree No 206 of 9 November 2007 in order to define the issues covered by the European infringement procedure 2018/2175. In particular, the news referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1 intervenes on the concept of a citizen of the European Union legally established, in order to delete the reference to residence, which is not provided for by European legislation and has given rise to problems in the implementation phase. The following point (b) extends the powers of the Sports Office of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, already foreseen with regard to the recognition of Alpine guides, to all professional profiles of mountain guides. Point (c) provides that the competent authority for the issue of the European Professional Card (the institution provided for the professions of nurses responsible for general care, pharmacist, physiotherapist, mountain guide, real estate agent) shall issue each certificate of support required by European legislation and not only those already in possession of it. Point (d) also refers to the European Professional Card, moving by one week the one-month period for the verification of the documents submitted for its issue and providing for a further two-week extension of the period within which to decide on the issue of the European Professional Card. The report referred to in point (e) specifies that the competent internal authorities must cooperate fully with the assistance centres of the host Member States. Point (f) concerns certain assumptions relating to the compensatory measures required under the general scheme for the recognition of evidence of formal qualifications, where training in the other Member State provides for subjects substantially different from those provided for in Italy for the profession in question and, in such cases, gives the competent authority the choice between aptitude test and adaptation training. The amendment adopted in the Commission also extends the obligation to submit the person concerned to a subsequent final review to the latter. Points (g) and (h) supplement the special rules on the automatic recognition of certain qualifications for health professions, with regard to Croatia's accession to the European Union. Article 2, as amended during the examination in the Commission, lays down provisions on the profession of broker, including the profession of real estate agent, and is also intended to define infringement procedure No 2018/1175. In particular, the rule limits the incompatibility provided for in the mediation activity to the assumptions of entrepreneurial activity of production, sale, representation or promotion of the goods pertaining to the same commodity sector for which the mediation activity is carried out, as well as to the activity carried out as an employee of public or private body, or as an employee of a banking, financial or insurance institution (excluding mediation undertakings) and to the exercise of intellectual professions pertaining to the same commodity sector for which the mediation activity is carried out and in any case in situations of conflict of interest, noting to this end paragraph 3 of Article 5 of the Law of 3 February 1989, n. 39. We now come to Article 3, which was also amended during the examination in the Commission, which deals with the criteria for granting concessions for tobacco sales and refers to the case of EU-Pilot 8002/15/GROW. It amends the requirements under which ordinary and special sales of monopoly types are to be carried out, as well as the issue and renewal of the licence, quoting paragraph 42 of Article 24 of Decree-Law No 98 of 6 July 2011, converted, with amendments, by Law No 111 of 15 July 2011, replacing - this is the point - the criterion of minimum productivity with that of the population. Article 4, introduced during the examination in the Commission, aims to put an end to infringement procedure No 2017/2090, open for infringement of Directive 2011/6/EU on combating late payment in commercial transactions. In particular, Article 4 provides for the replacement of Article 113- bis of the code of public contracts referred to in Legislative Decree No. 50 of 2016, in order to bring back to thirty days the deadline for the payment of advances on consideration of contract, as indicated by the Directive, calculated from the date of issue of the document on the state of progress of the works, that is the so-called SAL, and not from that of the certificate of payment that in any case must be issued simultaneously or within seven days. It is also possible to agree in the contract a period of not more than 60 days, provided objectively justified by the particular nature of the contract or by certain characteristics thereof. It is further clarified that the final invoice issued by the contractor must be paid within 30 days of the acceptance or verification of conformity, unless it is expressly agreed in the contract that a period shall not exceed 60 days objectively justified by the particular nature of the contract and certain of its characteristics. Article 5, introduced during the examination in the Commission, delegates to the Government the adoption of a legislative decree for the regulation of the discipline relating to the use of the terms "cuoio" and "leather" and those derived from them or their synonyms. The delegation resumes that already expired, that is a previous delegation that had expired, contained in article 26 of the European law 2013-a, the law no. 161 of 2014. Finally, in order to close the case of EU-Pilot 4971/13/ENTR, Article 26 had repealed Law No 8 of 2013 by reviving the previous Act No 1112 of 1966. This regulatory change required a reordering of the matter for the purpose of which a delegation to the Government was planned but not carried out. Whereas it is appropriate to close the regulatory gap in order to protect consumers and producers, including handicraft leather products, Article 5 proposes the delegation of legislation in exactly the same terms. In particular, the legislative decree must be adopted within 12 months of the date of entry into force of the law on a proposal from the Minister of Economic Development, after hearing the relevant parliamentary committees, and is subject to the Community information procedure before final adoption under the EU Directive [20135 on technical regulations. Article 6, already Article 4 of the draft law, extends the scope of the provisions of Law No 69 of 22 April 2005 on the European arrest warrant and delivery procedures between Member States, also to the relations between Italy and the Kingdom of Norway and those between Italy and the Republic of Iceland. Article 7, already Article 5, deals with requirements for examiners of driving licences other than those for motor vehicles, i.e. the so-called B licence. The provision amends point (a) of point 2.2 of Annex IV to Legislative Decree No. 59 of 2011, providing as an alternative requirement to the ownership of a category licence corresponding to that for which the examiner is called to carry out his activity, the possession of a degree in engineering of the old order or of a degree in specialized or master in engineering. (at 12.21 a.m.) (Following Mr Licheri, rapporteur on draft law No 822) The purpose of Article 8, which was introduced during the examination in the Commission, is instead to resolve the infringement procedure 2014/4187 with which the European Commission has found that the users of the airports of Milan, Rome and Venice, governed by the so-called derogation programme contracts, are not guaranteed the possibility of appeal against decisions concerning airport charges and that the ENAC would not have the independence necessary to carry out the functions of Supervisory Authority on these airports. Article 8 therefore definitively assigns the functions of supervisory authority to the Transport Regulatory Authority, which is now fully operational, including with regard to the derogation programme contracts for the three airports mentioned above. Article 9 regulates the VAT arrangements applicable to the carriage and dispatch of goods free of charge in order to close infringement proceedings No 2018/4000. The proposed amendments exempt the said benefits from VAT, provided that their value is included in the tax base of the exempted transaction, even if customs VAT has not been discounted. Article 10 relates to Article 84 of the single customs text, as referred to in the decree of the President of the Republic of 23 January 1973, No 43 with particular reference to the limitation periods for the customs debt, in order to ensure full implementation of the new customs code of the Union, as provided for in Regulation of the European Union n. 952/2013, which applies from 1 May 2016. In particular, no customs debt may be notified to the debtor after the expiry of three years from the date on which it arose, whereas where the customs debt arises as a result of criminal conduct, the time limit for the notification of the customs debt shall be seven years. Article 11, as amended during the Commission review, contains provisions for the full implementation of Regulation 1031/2010 of the European Union, which regulates the timing, management and other aspects of the auctioning of greenhouse gas emission allowances. Paragraph 1 (a) introduces, within the framework of the discipline of intermediaries referred to in Part II of the single text of the provisions on financial intermediation, referred to in Legislative Decree No 58 of 1998, the new Article 20-b on the authorisation and supervision of persons entitled to submit applications for participation in the auction market, pursuant to the European Regulation. Article 12, introduced during the examination in the Commission, repeals the annual contribution of one million euros for each of the years 2018, 2019 and 2020, assigned by the Budget Law 2018 (Law No 205 of 2017), in favor of the Isiamed Institute, for the promotion of an Italian digital model in the fields of tourism, agri-food, sport and smart cities. This contribution, which has not yet been paid, has been declared incompatible with the European State aid rules in the framework of the SA 50464 2018/N procedure. Article 13 lays down implementing provisions for the European Union Directive 2017/1564, which has implemented the obligations imposed on the Union by the Treaty of Marrakesh and to which Member States must comply by 11 October 2018. The legislation aims to ensure that blind people, with visual disabilities or other difficulties in reading printed texts have access to books and other types of publications, including music scores, on any media, including in audio and digital format. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Licheri, I invite you to conclude. Mr Licheri, rapporteur on draft law No 822. Mr President, at this point I would say that I could go back to the content of the report on the draft law and read out Articles 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18. I am, of course, at the disposal of my colleagues for any other kind of clarification. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u71	I would ask the minority rapporteur on draft law No 822, Senator Testor, whether she intends to supplement the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u72	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, on 26 September 2018, the Government presented to the Senate the draft law laying down provisions for the fulfilment of the obligations arising from Italy's membership of the European Union in accordance with the provisions of Law No 234 of 24 December 2012 laying down general rules on Italy's participation in the training and implementation of EU legislation and policies. As with procedural practice, however, the other branch of Parliament has examined and approved the law of a European delegation which, together with European law, is a further instrument for adapting to the European Union's legal system. The importance of these measures is therefore substantial, not formal. These are regulatory instruments with which our country is in compliance with its obligations to belong to Europe, with particular regard to cases of incorrect transposition of EU legislation. In particular, European law includes not only those provisions which allow a periodic realignment of national law to EU law, following specific findings made by the European Commission through infringement procedures, but also those amendments aimed at preventing possible infringement procedures. Above all in this regard, it is right to stress the absolute will of the Government and Parliament to take responsibility for their responsibilities in the face of acclaimed violations, but above all to take every necessary measure, with an active and proactive attitude, in the face of the risk of litigation. At present, the number of procedures charged to Italy has reached 64, of which 56 for infringement of Union law and eight for failure to transpose directives. The draft European law for the year 2018, in particular, aims to address two infringement procedures and three cases of pre-litigation initiated through the so-called EU Pilot communication system; implement two directives; ensure the full implementation of two regulations; implement an international agreement and a specific EU directive in practice. The topics dealt with in this year's measure have, as usual, a very heterogeneous nature. The provisions we are about to adopt concern areas such as the free movement of persons, goods and services; safety; the protection of human health on good manufacturing practices for medicinal products for human use; copyright for the benefit of blind people; and environmental protection. The impact these measures will have on our legislation is therefore considerable. By transposing the European directives, the Government and the legislator must never forget that the first subjects directly involved and that will have positive or negative effects from the adoption of certain provisions are Italian citizens and companies. It would therefore be a very serious mistake to regard European law as a mere bureaucratic act to be carried out only in order to avoid litigation or to remedy irregularities. European legislation directly affects the daily lives of all of us. It is up to us, as interpreters of the citizens' demands, to ensure maximum harmonisation between the European rules and those of our system. It is up to us to ensure that there is no supremacy of European law contrary to national interest. It should be noted that, among the main causes of the widespread feeling of Euroscepticism, there is the compulsory acceptance of Community provisions. We must accept, of course, but too often deprived of forms of contradictory, where membership of the European Union cannot in any way be synonymous with subjection. Our right must be defended and protected. The enactment of national laws responds to specific needs of the country, and our task is to enforce these laws because we believe in their importance. Europe often offers us ways to improve our legislation, but too often it intervenes without considering the specific nature of our state, our characteristics, our uses and our typicality. The technocracy must be fought through the contradictory. The enactment of European law and the law of European delegation can and must have this purpose. We fulfil our duties, but not passively, having always made it clear that the consequences of what is decided in Brussels have repercussions on the lives of all of us. All too often, however, these measures have met the primary need to respond to a call: more has therefore been made to avoid sanctions than to analyse the actual impact that Community directives would have on our legal system. A serious mistake, where the transposition of Community rules should always lead to a significant improvement in our living conditions, an advantage for Italian companies, results that are achieved, not through the pedissere acceptance of the European dictation, but by intervening ourselves in the decision-making process, making politics prevail over bureaucracy, defending national interest through the harmonization of rules. It should be stressed, however, that, when drafting this text, the Government has taken an attitude that we could call cautious compliance with the obligations imposed by the Union. The discussion of the measure in the Commission also took place in the name of democratic confrontation. In this regard, it is good that we wanted to give a favourable opinion on an agenda presented by Forza Italia regarding infringement procedure No 2175 of 2018 on the recognition of professional qualifications. Citizens of the Member States of the European Union, the countries of the European Economic Area and Switzerland may exercise a regulated profession in Italy after having obtained recognition of their title or professional qualification by the competent authorities. The recognition of professional qualifications in Italy is regulated by Legislative Decree No 206 of 6 November 2007, which transposed the Community Directive 2005/36. Through our agenda we have committed the Government to assess the opportunity to tighten up the recognition of qualifications of categories such as doctors, nurses, dental practitioners and pharmacists. Italy, in fact, has the duty to promote the free movement of workers, but at the same time has the obligation to face and manage two serious realities affecting the health sector. On the one hand, in fact, there is a chronic shortage of health personnel, which must be dealt with by promoting the entry into the world of work of new health professionals; on the other, it is essential to stop the growing flight of doctors who decide to leave Italy, after having carried out a long period of training, and to go abroad, making available their knowledge - that in this, as in other sectors, has always been at the forefront - for the only fact that they find a job faster and with wages far more satisfying than those offered in our country. Well, even if we take advantage of these shortcomings, we see too often a proliferation of doctors or pseudos, who throughout Italy open studies without having the necessary qualifications. No foreclosure, but we ask for more checks and checks on the titles obtained, especially when we are faced with professionals to whom we entrust our health. Similarly, it is welcome that the Government has wished to accept our agenda, although reworded, committing itself to immediately act on the request of the European Union Solidarity Fund for the areas affected by the extraordinary floods that have affected our peninsula over the last year. However, the same cannot be said where we have proposed to the Government to make an additional effort, committing itself to respond to the infringement procedure still pending No 2143 of 2014, Article 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, duly promoted by the then Commissioner for Industry and Vice President of the European Commission, Tajani, on late payments by the Italian public administration. Following the start of this procedure, the Italian Government in 2014 was forced to insert a series of provisions in Decree-Law No 66, dedicating the entire Title III to the payment of debts of public administrations. The problem of late payments, however, is far from being resolved. The average time of payment of debts by Italian public administrations has improved, but they remain far from respecting the thirty-sixty-day constraints imposed by the law. According to a recent study based on data ISTAT, Banca d'Italia and Ministry of Economy and Finance, there are very serious situations in some municipalities and provinces, with peaks of delays reaching 540 days. In order to cope with this unbridled situation that is damaging our businesses and our economy, we had asked to use, as a priority, compared to the introduction of a welfare measure such as the income of citizenship - which is now changing in nature - a part of the greater deficit provided for by the budget law to pay the previously certified debts of public administrations to businesses and freelancers. Sorry to point out that the representative of the Government justified the rejection of our proposal on the grounds that the extra deficit would be created by paying these debts. A deficit, therefore, that would be justified for welfare measures and not to inject liquidity by paying Italian companies, guaranteeing them job continuity and employment. The work carried out in Commission 14a has already explained extensively and in detail President Licheri, whom I thank for his work, together with all the members of the Commission. In conclusion, Forza Italia considers this measure together with the European delegation law to be extremely important regulatory instruments, with particular regard to the need to remedy open infringement procedures but above all to close cases of pre-litigation promptly. However, we hope that a more active approach can be adopted in the course of the work to prevent infringements, particularly where our legislation penalises our citizens and our businesses in relation to European provisions. In short, we hope for a better balance between the different stages of Italy-European Union relations and greater authority in defending our interests in Europe. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u73	On behalf of the Assembly I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Salvatore Quasimodo" in Crispano, in the province of Naples, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u74	I would ask the rapporteur on documents LXXXVI, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1, Senator Bossi Simone, whether he intends to supplement the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u75	, rapporteur on documents LXXXVI, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1. Mr President, I too, like the President, would like to thank all the Members of the Commission for their excellent work, their hard work and their experience. The annual report for 2017 and the 2018 programme report on Italy's participation in the European Union were submitted to Parliament on 19 March and 22 January 2018 respectively, in accordance with Article 13 (2) of Law No 234 of 2012, and were referred to the Commission on 2 October 2018. The consuntiva report is the main instrument for the exercise of Parliament's ex post control function over the conduct of the government in the European Union's decision-making bodies during the previous year, while the policy report takes on a more political significance, reflecting the government's general view of the future prospects of the European Union and indicating its political intentions on individual European dossiers. Since both reports were produced by the previous Government, the examination by the 14th Permanent Commission in the referent and by the other Permanent Commissions in the consultative session has limited itself to formal profiles, in order to acknowledge the precedent, while allowing the political forces, currently present in Parliament, to carry out a programmatic reflection and to provide guidance to the Government in office. During the examination in the 14th Commission, other policy documents on Italy's participation in the European Union, referring to the current legislature, were also taken into account, including the resolutions adopted by the Senate on 27 June, with a view to the European Council on 28 and 29 June, and on 16 October, with a view to the European Council on 17 and 18 October. For the purpose of formal recognition of the two documents, it is noted that the text of the 2017 summary report presents a structure in general consistent with the legislative forecasts of Law No 234 of 2012. It is divided into four parts: the first part is devoted to the development of the European integration process and to institutional issues and is divided into three chapters. The first concerns the general priorities of the presidencies of the Council of the European Union in 2017, the second concerns institutional issues, with particular reference to the Brexit negotiations, the European electoral law and the protection of the Rule of Law in the Union; the third chapter concerns the coordination of macroeconomic policies and deals with economic growth, monetary and budgetary policies, the implementation of the Juncker Plan, the Banking Union and financial services, and tax issues. The second part is devoted to measures adopted under horizontal policies, including single market and competitiveness policies, the digital single market, energy, the capital market and sectoral policies, such as social policies, those aimed at strengthening an area of freedom, security and justice or those on the external dimension of the Union. The third part, on territorial cohesion policy, takes into account the results achieved in 2017 and the start of projects for the seven-year cycle until 2020, with a view to strengthening the administrative structure. Finally, the fourth part is devoted to the national coordination of European policies, with particular regard to the activities of the Interministerial Committee for the Affairs of the European Union, as well as to the Government's information requirements for Parliament and local and regional authorities, including the activity of "qualified information" on European legislative proposals. Finally, account is also taken of the dispute before the Court of Justice of the European Union and of what has been done to resolve infringement proceedings. As part of the efforts to implement European Union law in Italian law, the number of open infringement procedures, at the end of 2017, was 62, a figure in line with other Member States. Currently, in November 2018, the number of procedures charged to our country is 68, of which 60 for violation of EU law and only 8 for failure to transpose directives. Italy therefore remains the Member State with the lowest number of open infringement procedures for non-transposition compared to all Member States, although the data of the infringement procedures of European law brings us back to a position around the European average. There are 10 open procedures under Article 260 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), i.e. procedures for failing to implement a previous sentence, which are those liable to impose financial penalties on our country. Finally, the summary report is supplemented by five annexes. The first three concern the Council of the European Union and the European Councils, the financial flows from the European Union to Italy in 2017 and the transposition of directives in the reference year. The fourth annex, as for the previous year, contains a list of resolutions adopted by the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies in 2017 on European legislative proposals and, for each of them, there is the reference to the part of the text of the Report, which deals with the follow-up given by the Government to the act of address. The last annex contains the list of acronyms. As far as the 2018 Programme Report is concerned, it is structured into five parts. The first part, which concerns the development of the European integration process and institutional issues, reports on the action that the Government intended to take to relaunch European political integration and to relaunch relations with the institutions of the European Union, as well as on the future financial framework, issues related to Brexit and the coordination of macroeconomic policies. The second part is devoted to the priorities to be adopted in the framework of the Union's horizontal and sectoral policies, including single market policies, migration strategies, enterprise policies, or justice and home affairs policies. The third part, on the subject of the external dimension of the Union, sets out the government guidelines on the common foreign and security policy, as well as on enlargement and neighbourhood policy and cooperation with third countries. The fourth part is devoted to the government's communication and training strategies on the activities of the European Union and the participation of Italy in the European Union. Finally, the fifth part is devoted to the coordination role of European policies, carried out by the Interministerial Committee for European Affairs and to the issue of adapting national law to European Union law, with the usual window on the prevention and resolution of infringement procedures. Four appendices complete the text, with specific references to the European Commission Work Programme for 2018, to the Council of the European Union Trio of Presidencies Programme, Estonian, Bulgarian and Austrian, and to a prospectus dedicated to the resources of the European Union budget for 2017. The programme report for 2018 is noted, especially as regards its political content, which is an expression of the previous Government. Today, therefore, we will present a majority resolution reflecting the new national political context and containing political guidelines in line with the new guidelines of the current Government in office with regard to Italy's participation in the European Union. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u76	Motions for resolutions to the programme and summary reports may be tabled before the conclusion of the general discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u77	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under consideration is nothing more than the answer that this Parliament must give to the various infringement procedures, of a European Union that is too often stepmother and almost never mother; of a European Union that looks to Italy only to criticize it, to teach our country and our fishermen perhaps how to cultivate clams, which wants to teach our mountain farms how to make cheese, which wants to limit the professionalism of our professionals and which, on the contrary, is rarely a point of support and departure for the development of this country. Let us first of all make this clear when we are going to comment on this bill. The bill in our examination, as we see in the plant, tends only to flatten the qualifications of our professions. We see this in particular in some articles that concern nurses, rather than other health professions, where everything is seen as a flattening: since in other countries a less culture and less training is enough to get to carry out the profession, then we must adapt and limit the profession and professionalism downwards too. Specifically, this somatic characterization, this qualitative characterization of the bill is expressed in an article that I want briefly to comment on, article 2, which concerns the agents of business in mediation: a category that we of Brothers of Italy are trying to help, because already from an internal and tax point of view it is vexed and subject to a treatment of negative differentiation compared to homologous figures such as agents of commerce. We did so in the form of a tax decree-law: we agreed with the Government, from which we expect consistency, the commitment to review the tax treatment of these professional figures, i.e. agents mediators compared to their counterparts agents of commerce, which have tax advantages - I repeat - much greater. Even from the regulatory point of view, the figure of the broker, if this bill is passed, will be further dequalified: in fact, the figure of the broker in mediation will be seen more and more as a second-floor figure, as a profession that can in fact be carried out as a second job. What does this bill do? It eliminates the restrictions on access to the profession: in essence, if it is approved, it will allow anyone who does not carry out an activity of employee rather than entrepreneurial, but also of professional work, therefore to anyone who does not carry out such an activity in the same field of goods, to become a mediator. In essence, the secretary of a lawyer rather than an accountant, the fruit seller at the market, that is, the one who does not do a specific activity in the field of mediation, tomorrow with a small examination he will be able to become agent of business in mediation. From a first point of view, the profession will be debased, which will be open to almost everyone, and above all will also be removed that protection of the customer-user that until now thanks to the Italian law, which is precisely a law of quality, allows to identify in the mediator a function and a truly super partes role, really impartial, that is the real estate broker as the one to whom we address, in hope, but also with a certain certainty, that he is really an independent and professional figure over the parties. To this bill instead will correspond a mediator who may perhaps be the employee of a professional study that deals with failures, and it is therefore within certain logics of the market of the sale of real estate, that perhaps does the broker as a second job, and therefore has an absolutely different preparation and autonomy. This is the DNA, which specifically concerns Article 2 on the figure of the mediator, but unfortunately it is also the DNA that distinguishes and characterizes the entire bill, the entire qualitative flattening that Italy must undergo for the umpteenth time from this European unity, unity - I repeat - more stepmother than mother. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u78	Senator Casolati is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u79	Mr President, fellow senators, members of the Government, over 60 years ago, a couple of kilometres from here, the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community was signed, the first step, after the Treaties of Paris (which were the prelude to it), of a path of European integration, which was probably the most concrete of the visionaries, Winston Churchil, in the immediate post-war period. Curious that the United Kingdom itself was not one of the founders of the EEC and that it is now about to leave the European Union, that was a union of national states, but in the heart of true Europeanists, the dream of a Europe of peoples was already present. The process of integration has gradually continued, overcoming unimaginable goals only fifty years ago, such as the free movement of persons and goods. Unfortunately, it is the ideas that have not circulated enough. But it was the single currency that forced national states, for the first time, to give up an important part of sovereignty. That "part of sovereignty," however, was never given to the peoples, but was managed by the union of national states, because the union of peoples continues to be the unrealized dream of the first true visionaries. Mine are not words of an anti-Europeanist, but, indeed, are daughters of the anger and suffering of a convinced Europeanist, but disappointed by this Europe characterized mostly by the selfishness of those who promote altruism. The knots have come to the comb as the economic crisis has sharpened, because a market where companies have to compete that operate with different rules, that serve a different taxation, but that use the same currency, is not a market in balance. It is not only Europe's responsibility, but it is also our fault. It is our fault that the times and costs of bureaucracy and infrastructure deficiencies, which our companies have to bear, are much greater than those of the average of their European competitors. It is the slowness of the state and the territories to respond quickly to the needs of the productive sectors. It is not the European Union if the control of migratory flows is a problem only for those who face the Mediterranean. It is not the European Union, if Member States can make tax dumping. It is not the European Union, if in the name of a process of globalisation, which is objectively inescapable, one forgets the traditions of the peoples. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The provision that today the 14th It reminds us annually of the obligations arising from our participation in the European Union in the harmonization of legislation in the various fields. The Commission has carried out an in-depth evaluation work on the text and on the amendments tabled, because all the issues addressed are particularly significant for the economic and professional life of our country. By delivering the reflections of the other branch of Parliament, the improvements of the text and the possible corrections, we commit the Government to contribute to the process of democratization of the European Union, strengthening and making more timely, effective and incisive the active participation of the Italian Parliament in the definition of the policies of the Union, both directly through the existing instruments and to be promoted, and through a reinforced dialogue with the Government that includes the ascending phase. In view of the forthcoming presentation of the 2019 Programme Report, we are committed to working towards establishing a structured European strategy on common immigration policies, in particular on combating trafficking in human beings, with a sharing by Member States, both in the protection of external borders and in reception, for a fair distribution of the pressures resulting from migratory flows, in particular rescued at sea, and also in the adoption of common measures for the effective return of migrants whose entry or stay is irregular. We call on the Government to ensure, in the agreement on the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union, adequate protection of interests and the full reciprocity of the rights of citizens of the Member States of the European Union, to protect also the large Italian community resident in the various British cities, and to negotiate a redefinition of the appropriations for cohesion funds and the common agricultural policy, so as to allow at least the maintenance of the levels of funding, for a perspective of development of Italian agriculture, given the centrality of the primary sector in the challenges of global food security and climate change, also to protect the rich national agricultural biodiversity and food and wine products of excellence. We also call on him to give high priority to the implementation of the so-called circular economy regulatory package, by strengthening the system for the separate collection of materials with certain deadlines for the disposal of landfills, for the progressive over-production of energy recovery plants, if not exclusively fed by residual waste of separate collection and, finally, we commit him to promote the European Union's ambitious objectives in the fight against climate change with binding and stringent commitments to reduce pollutant emissions and the launch of a new industrial policy aimed at decarbonisation and deoxidisation. We still believe in this Europe, but we are convinced that the relationship between the European Union and its citizens, between the austere buildings in Brussels and the true Europe of the peoples, must be profoundly changed. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u80	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u81	Mr President, representative of the Government, I should like to speak briefly. I would like to thank the Commission as a whole and, in particular, my colleagues in the Commission for the policies of the European Union, which is one of the most complex, and the Parent Company, as well as today's minority rapporteur. On this legislation, which could be hypothetically neglected, attention has been paid to the work they have done and which they have passed on to us. I made this premise because I was struck by the lack of attention not so much from the Commission but from the Government and the majority forces on the measure which allows Parliament to take stock of the situation in relations with Europe. Today we are talking about documents where everything is, from infringement procedures to accounts. In the annexes - as the majority rapporteur said earlier, I think - you will find the various millions that are given to Italy (which is a subject we are talking about daily) and which must be related to what Italy gives. I, as an external observer, must note that perhaps a slightly greater commitment from the Government (not just to the resolution by the majority forces), especially to put this European law in place (since it is true that they have just arrived, but it is also true that they have been there for six months and this is a central issue), I would have put it there anyway. It is, in fact, the usual problem we talk about on television, but when the acts that are to be followed come there is instead a little more distraction. On the other hand, with regard to the two very short concepts that I wanted to take up again, already illustrated by the minority rapporteur, Senator Testor, this is simple. There is an invitation to take seriously what has been done by the President of the European Parliament today, when he was Commissioner, to force our country to pay its debts to businesses. Let's talk about concrete things: tens of hundreds of companies are blowing up because public administration doesn't pay their debts. This has always been the case very slowly, first as Commissioner, and again today in his role, Mr Tajani. I think we all talk about companies in words and we know very well that one of the reasons they fail is that the state asks for money, but when it has to pay it does not give it. We therefore believe that this issue should be dealt with more firmly. Secondly, beyond the nature of the disputes that Italy may have, i.e. how the present 64 are divided, the minority rapporteur has launched two concepts that I would like to take up again. At the moment, we must regain authority towards Europe, because of course this is the instrument through which appropriate preventive action is taken to avoid infringement proceedings or, in any case, litigation of a judicial nature. It is an invitation that I have also heard deeply from myself and that I therefore believe must be emphasized again, because it is the way through which, beyond so many proclamations, we can find the right balance to face the difficulties of today's times. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u82	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciriani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by bringing back the attention of this House and of those who listen to the nature of this measure, which perhaps has been somewhat underestimated. In fact, we are discussing - and we will probably approve this - a draft law which contains provisions for the fulfilment of the obligations imposed on Italy by membership of the European Union. The debate that has taken place today on this draft law, in fact, is the almost plastic testimony of the great political conflict of recent years, weeks, months, between European legislation and that of Parliament, as well as between Italy and Europe. We are here to take note of certain mandatory corrections which the Community directives impose on the Italian Parliament. We therefore have a very limited voting and decision-making capacity and freedom to legislate. There is no one who does not understand that this, in essence, is the conflict that has arisen between the Italian Constitution, which was born as a parliamentary and representative of the categories and difficulties of the history of this country, and a supranational European power, as powerful as it is defective of democratic legitimacy. This is the real problem which, in my opinion, should be of concern to this House, beyond the technical aspects on which we will certainly also be intervening. In fact, infringement procedures are often incomprehensible, not only to the Senate and the House, but to the common sense and economic activity of this country. They are sometimes abstract principles or unnecessary complications in everyday activity and life. If you simply take the list of subjects on the agenda, you will see that we must adapt Italian legislation to the free movement of persons, justice, security, transport, taxation, copyright, etc. The question then is what remains of the Constitution and of the freedom granted to the representatives of the people, to the senators and to the Members of Parliament in relation to what Europe asks of us and which in recent days has asked us about the infringement procedure that Minister Tria told us about the economic maneuver, on which I personally have many doubts and oppositions, which I have expressed, like the Brothers of Italy Group, in this Assembly. However, the real problem remains: I am referring to the conflict, in fact, between what Parliament can determine and what the European treaties require of us. These are of course treaties that we have signed without imposing any, but the problem still remains. Compared to this, the problems we face are the direct consequence. I am thinking, for example, of the problems of the public administration and the payments it does not make. European legislation requires us - it is right - to speed up payment, but we forget that public administrations often fail to pay their suppliers because they are bound by a straitjacket, represented by the Stability Pact or by other legal and economic cobwebs, which prevent the municipalities, even though they have the money, from paying. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] That is the problem that we must address here. There is a contradiction between what the European Union calls for with one hand and what it imposes with the other: international treaties and austerity, which have imposed unbearable budgetary rigidity on local governments and also on state administrations, and - then - pressing calls to pay soon and well. We have tabled amendments and agendas which I hope the majority will want, not to say share, but at least to read. Certainly, the issue of public administration payment is a fundamental one, because companies die from lack of liquidity and credit and are in huge difficulties as some public administrations pay with delays of years, not months. We cannot call ourselves a civilised country if we do not allow companies that have worked with the public administration to be paid quickly and acceptablely. A solution could have been the solution that I have put forward with my colleagues in order to allow companies and private individuals to balance their debts. However, this solution, which is of common sense, was rejected by the House - only by the majority - last week. It could have been the simplest solution, beyond what the European Union is asking of us. Given that there is very little time available, I would like to make a brief mention of the tobacco issue. I have not quite understood whether the rule serves to defend the operators of state monopolies in relation to the fact that the so-called minimum productivity introduced by the legislator has previously been expunged. However, I fear - on the contrary - that this new rule exposes the current operators of state monopolies - tobacconists and tobacconists - to excessive competition. In fact, to make reference only to the distances of 200 meters and the minimum number of 1,500 inhabitants in order to be able to exercise the activity means to add new activities in a market that is already asfittic and whose turnover decreases from year to year. On this issue too, I would like to see a greater effort and courage on the part of the Senate. I would like to move on quickly to another subject, since Mr Barra Caracciolo, who has spent a great deal on this subject, is present in the Chamber. I believe that the government should also commit a little more to the de minimis regime. Indeed, the current de minimis regime mentioned in some articles, which is limited to 200,000 euros in three years, is insufficient compared to the possibility that the Government can give a company to benefit from state aid sometimes indispensable to be able to recover in times of crisis. I believe that on this issue the Government should engage in the most suitable fora. If time allows me, I would like to make one last curious and nice notation, demonstrating how European legislation every day leaves us surprises even funny, perhaps unfamiliar. In Article 5 of Law No 822, for example, a new provision is introduced whereby driving licence examiners will no longer have to be holders of the licences for which the examinations are carried out, as it is sufficient that they are graduates of engineering (which branch is not specified). Therefore, to take the exam for the C or D licenses you will no longer need to know how to drive the truck or bus, but it will be enough to be graduated. I was hoping that to do this test you would need to be able to drive the truck and the bus. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] This requirement is no longer needed in Europe. We need the distinction between leather and leather and other nonsense, but from tomorrow morning the examination of the driver's license for the bus on which our children travel or for trucks carrying dangerous goods will be done by a person who never got on a bus and never drove a truck and an articulated car. That is the novelty that the European Union demands of us and that you are preparing to vote. We certainly don't. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u84	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u85	Mr President, European law is an important political step and certainly cannot be regarded as merely a formal implementation of European legislation. Even more significant is the presentation of the 2018 programmatic report because it indicates the horizon to which we want to go; it indicates how our country wants to stay in Europe and which Europe it intends to build, also in view of the appointment of the spring of next year with the elections of the European Parliament. An important appointment, especially today, with the presentation of the budget law, in front of the calls of the European Union, awaiting the next summit in December and awaiting the recommendations that will be addressed to our country. The question is how this majority wants to be in Europe and whether it is interested in playing a leading role, even in those international fora where fundamental choices are being determined that affect our destiny very closely. Just think about the issue of migration: deciding not to be in Marrakech to discuss the Global compact means, in fact, isolating oneself and suffering the consequences of phenomena that will inevitably touch us. With the elections to the European Parliament, in fact, we could be faced with a restart towards a new Europe or, on the contrary, witness the progressive dissolution of a project of integration, democracy and growth shared for sixty years towards dangerous neo-nationalisms. A Europe that you cannot reduce to a mere confrontation between national and European sovereignty. It is from the Maastricht Treaty that the principle of subsidiarity regulates and regulates the relationship between the different levels of power and links national and European sovereignty; a principle of subsidiarity that already brings together identities, stories and territorial sovereignty, national and European: without excluding itself but rather strengthening its respective capacity and effectiveness of action. Europe has never wanted to standardize and flatten down. On the contrary, it has always considered that the beauty of the diversity of language, culture and traditions generated European added value. Mr President, it is Europe that we do not talk about, and we should talk more about it, starting with schools. Europe, which is not only the second largest market in the world, but also Europe, which today guarantees the world's most advanced legislation in the field of competition and consumer protection, food safety and research and development, environmental protection and health protection. We too believe that the Europe of mere austerity, accounts and algorithms must be changed in order to regain greater legitimacy for decision-making, greater legitimacy for citizens and respect for the priorities addressed, starting from the 2020 and 2030 targets, for smart growth because it is inclusive, capable of generating jobs and sustainable. A Europe that comes out of the narrative of the external bond. It was our battle, which has allowed us, over the past five years, to achieve flexibility, while respecting budgetary rules, to support reforms and investment for growth. Respect that our Governments have also guaranteed for the medium-term targets on debt, as certified up to the end of 2017. A new story from Europe is therefore necessary, a story that has not yet been made in the 60 years of peace, rights and progress. A heritage of advantages that our boys almost take for granted, but that today are seriously threatened. A system that must be updated, in relation to the new challenges, in the face of an increasing demand for protection, towards a Europe that is stronger, fairer and safer. For this reason it is necessary and not possible to postpone the recovery of a decisive role of Italy in Europe and of Europe in the world. We, in our last mandate, worked to restore greater credibility to our country, as testified in the 2017 Consuntiva report, putting Italy back on the path of economic recovery, but also by reducing the infringement procedures by half. We also wanted to make a positive contribution on this occasion to the adoption of European law on issues relating to the free movement of professions, workers, in the fields of justice, security, taxation, copyright, health, the environment and public administration's debts with businesses. However, today there are choices to be made, in a consistent way, which relate the measures that this Government is adopting. It is not enough to try to respond to infringement procedures if, at the same time, with the so-called security decree, you violate three European directives on immigration, reception, status and procedures, measures (such as your citizenship income welfare proposal) with which you go in the opposite direction to that indicated by the important European recommendations aimed at supporting employment and employment. Yours could appear as an almost ideological aversion to investment, an aversion found in every measure approved so far by your majority that today comes to take away resources even the most important part on which to invest: the school, the training of our young people. Put money on technologies and forget the most important factor of progress: man and knowledge. With your budget law you risk slipping us into the reversible vortex of the infringement and crisis. By violating the rules of debt put Italy out of the ongoing process of strengthening the eurozone, it is not possible to draw on important resources to support investment and reform. We would have liked Italy in the lead group of Member States to direct the debate on the challenges of economic growth and migration by strengthening the Africa Fund, the European Asylum Support Office, Frontex, security policies and the Union's institutional framework, starting with the reform of the multiannual financial framework. None of this can be found in your programme report or in your resolution. Then be careful not to slide Italy to the bottom of a state of surveillance, subordination and isolation. All too often the impression is that with all your choices, especially those contained in the budget maneuver, the government and the majority are trying to provoke the incident with Brussels, your external enemy, probably for a mere electoral calculation. But the bill's salty and our kids could pay for it. For us, Mr President, Europe remains our horizon, Europe for us is not the cause of the problem but one of the solutions to the great challenges of our time. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u86	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u87	Mr President, the other colleagues of the Brothers of Italy have already explained in a relevant, appropriate and documented way our position on the European bill which derives from commitments previously made by our Government in Europe because we are among the main actors, like the others, of the directives, regulations and measures taken at European level that we are dealing with today as a consequence. With this brief speech, I would like to point out to the representative of the Government present and to the other Members of Parliament, not what has already happened and on which we are trying to put a patch downstream in some cases, but what is happening at this time in Europe and which, of course, Parliament, or parliaments, in subsequent sessions, perhaps in the coming years, will have to deal, that is, what is happening in Europe at this time in the government's insignia, sometimes with the connivance of the Government - I say this above all to the Members of the League who are present and who should and could intervene more than we - about other commitments that the Government is passing through in Europe that perhaps will have to deal with who will be in this House in a few years' time to try to put a patch. The problems are in fact upstream and the Members of the League should remember what is still happening today as a result of events that happened 30 years ago in the European Parliament, for example, with regard to milk quotas, an emblematic case that we still have to deal with, or even with what happens and which we should deal with as a result of the Bolkestein Directive or of what happens or has already happened in the Italian banks as a consequence of Basel 3. Well, what is happening in Europe and you could intervene without the need to denounce, perhaps in a few months' time, the European stepmother? The regulation on the reduction of CO2 for cars and commercial vehicles will be decided at this time in Europe. Yesterday, the President of the Count Council, unaware and unsuspecting, spoke at the assembly of the National Association of Automotive Industry (ANFIA), the assembly of manufacturers and the automotive sector, ensuring a commitment. What kind of commitment is it, though, if our government is among the most pressing in Europe - I wonder if the right hand knows what the left hand is doing - for a European regulation that penalises our production sector? The European regulation is an unattainable illusion for the Italian car industry, as they tell us, because it sets such high objectives that our production system cannot achieve in due time. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u88	Senator, I'm sorry to interrupt, but there's a bump that's completely out of proportion to the number of senators in this House. My colleague has a hard voice, but please turn it down.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u89	Mr Urso (FdI). I therefore address my colleagues in the League who should have at heart the fate of the Italian production sector and, above all, of the automotive sector, a major part of our production system. The government is working in Europe to ensure that the objectives that the Commission has brought to the attention of the European Parliament are even more penalising for our business. There is no point in complaining here, in a few years' time, that Europe is a stepmother if now that you are in the government you do not intervene so that Europe is kind. This concerns the European CO2 Regulation, which is being implemented in these hours and in which the Italian Government is against the Italian company, far beyond what the European Commissioner has already said and what the other States are asking to apply. The government is even more pervicacious in cleaning and penalising our business. I am therefore talking about the European directive, which is about to be adopted, which concerns another sector of production: the single-use plastics sector. Here too, for environmental objectives which we all share, a tailor-made directive is being implemented to punish Italian companies. In fact, it specifically concerns the products made by Italian companies employing 3,000 employees, which will be forced to close from here to January 1, 2021. No, I'm sorry, the Government is asking to anticipate 1 January 2020, that is, the Italian Government is once again intervening against the Italian enterprise so that the European objectives, already serious for our companies, are anticipated even more in a penal way for our industries so that they do not even have the time to be converted. What are we talking about? You denounce the stepmother Europe and then you will compete for Europe to be even more stepmother against our businesses! The League in the European Parliament denounces the Directive and in the Government demands that it be advanced. What language do you speak? Why do you say one thing in this House, say one thing to a company, and act exactly the opposite way? I believe that we need to talk about this and what is happening in these hours: the Eurogroup on Finance is approving new legislation on the Fund saves States. So much so that we avoid a European infringement and that we create the conditions under which Italian government bonds are bought by savers and also in Europe - with our competition - you are approving a new rule on the State-saving Fund, which is made to measure, between codes, postcards and whatever else, in order to condemn Italy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, I would ask this Government to speak in one language, whether the Minister is five stars or the League: to act clearly, transparently and coherently, that it does not act like those who play the three cards, which unfortunately is a very common game not only in our Mezzogiorno. I ask you to intervene to prevent other cases, such as the milk quota that you have denounced for thirty years, with your competition - at this point aware - being carried out to the detriment of our country, our businesses and the young people who will come. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u90	She's registered to speak Senator Pucciarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although it is an obligatory parliamentary step, talking about European law in this political situation is not simply a necessary act, but for all of us it is an opportunity for an in-depth series of reflections on this European mechanism of limiting national sovereignty and imposing suprastate legislation, which has long been at the heart of the European public debate, and certainly will be even more so in the early months of the new year. Leaving aside theoretical constructions and ideological clashes for a moment, we should look pragmatically at the effects, both economic and social, as well as political, caused by the current EU framework and by the mechanisms for Community integration and legislative standardisation that we are discussing today. The effects, compared to the intentions and hopes of the inspiring fathers of the EU, have been completely negative: in the next few years, the English people have left the Union; throughout Europe there has been an overwhelming wave of discontent; at its borders have returned to blowing winds of war; in many countries, prostrated by austerity policies, disaffection towards European policies has become disaffection towards the same idea of Europe, and in some cases even of democracy; national conflicts are no longer mediated but unknowingly channeled into the thick links of European bureaucracy, which has become the spokesperson of specific economic and national interests. The ship Europe is sinking, and those who have brought the European Union to the brink of abyss refuse to take responsibility for it and demonize those who, instead, represent, in democratic and constructive forms, a popular discontent that otherwise would result in anything but peaceful phenomena. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Austerity policies are the main ones responsible for what happened, but we cannot pretend to ignore that if those policies have been applied it is because an international Franco-German axis has so far monopolized, with great advantage and equally great disadvantage of others, any concrete action of the European Union, finding in other countries subbaltern political classes, lacking an overall vision that could prove constructive, or too weak to impose on the international chessboard the just demands of a sovereign people. To think that a bureaucratic apparatus in the hands of the Germans and the French does the interests of the Italians, the Spanish or the Greeks is an illusion that only those who are in bad faith or who are unwise can cultivate. This is Europe's big problem: to redefine, in the interests of everyone, a structure that is only for the few. The people are calling for change, politics must be able to interpret and complete it, guaranteeing democracy and the peace of contrasts. Above all, politics cannot deny the need for a change of the Union because those who, on the contrary, perch on positions of rearguard, pretending to give the bread-free people the joys, contribute to undermining the foundations of the democratic guarantees of the states of European law. Suffice it to note what is happening in France with the revolt of yellow vests: Macron celebrated the presidential victory with the Hymn to Joy and now finds himself delegitimized by a popular revolt that sets fire to the whole country. We too, on the day we discuss two infringement procedures and three EU Pilots, are immersed in the great European contradiction: there are European Commissioners who currently have fewer votes in their country than any mayor of an Italian municipality of medium size, but they claim to embody the rigor and austerity, imposing on millions of Italians a political program rejected in the ballot box of March last. They do so in the name of supranational rules, such as those mediated by European law or represented by the objective of fiscal balance or by fiscal compact, which no longer have any legitimacy, which have proved to be harmful to Italy and most of the countries of the Eurozone and which peoples strongly demand to change. These are rules and regulations that must be undermined with the greatest possible revolution, the one that citizens do inside the ballot boxes with their vote. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Until then we will be forced to move within them, fighting to get the best for Italy and pronouncing sounds "no" in response to those institutions that in the past have found an Italy resigned to say only "yes". Even in this draft European law we have been able to say many no, while remaining within the legislative perimeter that we have inherited and that only important future action in the European fora will be able to change in agreement with the other peoples. We are confident that our demands for a change of economic course, marked by expansion and support for the weak, will be accepted at their core facility by the European Union. However, it would be preferable for the entire Italian Parliament, and not only its majority, to fight vigorously in the name of national interest, claiming the Italian role of second-manufacture in Europe, of a net contributor country of the Union, as the main holder of artistic and cultural heritage, which cannot accept unmotivated or prejudiced interference. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Unfortunately the national interest, for some, is now out of fashion and saddened to see political parties that in the past have underwent international arrogance to be more realistic today than the king. Maybe convenience leads that way, but there should be something bigger than bell towering to keep us together. In conclusion, Mr President, we must not give up the idea of Europe, of the large house within which we can best face the challenges and competitions of the future, but we must recognise that this Europe of quibbles, spread, foreign interference, ideological subdiction, is not our Europe. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Our Europe has its roots back in the centuries and is a source of inspiration for a reconstruction of the Community building, while theirs has become the nightmare of a dream that we all still have. We therefore have a responsibility to reform it, to preserve that dream, and the vote on European law 2018 only further increases the sense of that responsibility. Parliament's majority has clear ideas on this: we need a political Europe, a central bank that is the lender of last resort, deregulation in the less important areas and greater integration into the fundamental ones. We are not the sick man in Europe, Mr President, we are the example that other peoples will soon follow to give birth to a new Europe with less inequalities, more real economy, and a strong value recovery. Thank you. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u92	She's enlisted to speak Senator Giammanco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u93	Mr President, the Forza Italia Group has tabled a resolution on the documents we are debating today, with the intention of introducing firm stakes on what should be our country's relationship with Europe and, therefore, government policy in the Community. It is clear that the European Union is now a reference point, a consolidated reality from which it is unthinkable to come out for various reasons that I will not be here to list. We cannot, however, fail to recall the fact that, despite its limitations, the European Union has certainly guaranteed our continent seventy years of peace. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is therefore unthinkable not to make reflections on this and to take peace for granted on our Continent, because precisely it is not. We certainly need less bureaucracy and less rigid stakes. Surely we need more politics and the European Union cannot and must no longer represent merely a monetary and economic union. We need to go beyond too strict constraints and boundaries, regulations and directives that often and willingly demonstrate that they are sterile and unable to give answers to citizens. The new challenges that Europe faces are certainly right for its very survival and cannot therefore be neglected. For example, I am thinking of globalisation, digital innovation, the industrial revolution we are experiencing, immigration, terrorism, climate change, environmental protection. Never before is it really difficult at this historic moment not to say that the European Union needs a profound restyling; it needs a substantial change of pace and certainly to restore confidence to its citizens and new impetus to its own institutions, which should be characterized by greater democracy, to the detriment of a Europe of few and elitist, with a President of the European Commission - for example - directly elected by the people and with a European Parliament with the power to exercise the legislative initiative as the only Parliament that does not own it. To change Europe, Forza Italia considers it necessary, however, to be in Europe, without arrogance and with reasonableness - I say this to the Government - without insolence but with common sense, with foresight and with the ability to see beyond. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The relationship with Europe - we are also seeing it in the current negotiation of the budget law - must be preserved and above all must be cultivated day after day, summit after summit, with the right amount of diplomacy, with the right amount of firmness, with the credibility and with the indispensable political experience needed in such contexts. Let me say, ladies and gentlemen, that what we have seen in recent months by the Government, in its relationship with Europe, has only been so much approximation, so much pride. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Forza Italia is firmly convinced that Europe's task is to renew itself and ensure the well-being of its citizens, but with the tones used and with the way of doing adopted we will certainly not go far and it will be very difficult to achieve concrete results. The next elections for the renewal of the European Parliament will be historic, because they will offer us the opportunity to return Europe to the citizens and improve their living conditions. The government, therefore, cannot help but take advantage of this huge opportunity. That is why we are asking the Government today to act to support a real change of pace in Europe right away. The European Union's glue can no longer be just the common budget or bureaucracy: the European Union must streamline and simplify the rules of being together; it must lighten the weight of its bureaucracy and be close to citizens, especially young people, because - I would like to remind you - the common problem of young people, not only Italians, but of all the countries of the European Union, is certainly unemployment. With our resolution, we therefore commit the Government to propose in every European forum to review austerity policies and budgetary constraints if our country presents investment plans aimed at economic growth and job creation, investment plans that unfortunately we do not yet see. There are many criticisms of the budget law, because it lacks a plan that really looks at the future of our country and seriously relaunches its infrastructure system, making it closer to the rest of Europe. The government must also call for policies in favour of the family: in a country like ours, where fewer and fewer children are born, it is necessary to support the birth and the family even with community policies. Europe must also make its market more competitive and promote business growth; it must limit excessive regulation and simplify its extensive legislation, which, as I have already said, often proves to be sterile in reality. The government must also propose a revision of those treaties that have proved ineffective, or rather penalised against our country: first of all, I refer to the Treaty of Dublin. We must ask for it to be revised; we must not give up and stand still, but we must strongly demand the revision of this Treaty, which is penalising our country. The Government has a duty to work in Europe to protect Italian interests, first and foremost our Made in Italy, and must work to ensure that the 2021-2027 budget can be revised, eliminating the cuts made to agriculture and cohesion funds. You see, ladies and gentlemen, these cuts will only affect the agri-food production chain and the processing industry and would of course penalise the regions that have remained behind, like those of the Mezzogiorno, which still have to fill the huge gap that divides them from the rest of Italy and, therefore, cannot and must not be left alone. To conclude, Mr President, Forza Italia asks the Government to work in Europe in a serious and concrete way, without so many announcements. We need fewer walkways and more substance, less propaganda and more solutions to people's daily problems. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We ask the Government to help ensure that Europe truly becomes a Europe of peoples, a Europe of well-being and development, a Europe of employment and, above all, a Europe of solidarity. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u94	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and members of the Government, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the whole of the 14th Commission. In my opinion and in our opinion, what we have shown is the approach that must be there and that must be part of our common sense of accession to the European Union, never forgetting that this accession must aim at improving the lives of Italian and European citizens and not at worsening them. We are dealing with the European law 2018, namely that instrument which is used, pursuant to Law No 234 of 2012, to adjust periodically the national law to that of the European Union and, therefore, to fulfil the obligations arising from its membership. In this particular case - as the rapporteur has well explained - the Government is sheltering two infringement procedures and three pre-litigation cases. Obviously, the calls that my fellow Members have just made to the entire Parliament, the Senate, our colleagues in the House of Deputies and the Government to regain authority in Europe, in order to avoid or limit infringement procedures and to avoid or soothe disattention to national interests, are obviously acceptable, but they can relate to the future, from now on, since in the past our country unfortunately has not shown such sensitivity and political will. So let me say that the accusations that some politicians have made to the present government today are quite strange. Having said that, the draft law in question transposes two directives, implements two EU regulations: one on greenhouse gas emission allowance auctions - which I would like to mention briefly - and the other on customs duties. It also implements an international agreement concluded in the framework of the European Union's external relations and implements the European Commission's guidelines on Directive No 36 of 2005 on professional qualifications. I would like to focus, as I have just said, on the provisions of Article 11, ex Article 8 of the draft law under consideration, which contains provisions for the full implementation of European Union Regulation No 1031 of 2010, which regulates the subject of the auctioning of greenhouse gas emission allowances. The system used for the exchange of allowances for these greenhouse gases is the European Union emission trading scheme, which has been introduced by the European Union with the important objective of reducing emissions in an economically efficient manner, and a substantial part of the Union's climate change policies is based on this reduction. This system has basically created the world's first and largest carbon dioxide market (CO2), is active in 31 countries - 28 of the European Union, plus Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway - and aims to limit emissions from more than 11,000 energy-intensive plants, as well as to limit emissions from airlines connecting these countries. This system affects around 45% of EU greenhouse gas emissions and is therefore very important. In practice, a limit is set to the total quantity of certain greenhouse gases that can be emitted by plants that are part of the system and this roof is reduced over time, so that total emissions will hopefully tend to decrease. Within this limit, companies receive or buy gas emission allowances that, if necessary, can exchange; then they can also purchase limited quantities of international credits from emission reduction projects of all the world, and this also ensures that allowances have a value and, therefore, can be traded in a market. At the end of each year, companies must return enough allowances to cover their emissions if they do not want to be fined. The system is now in its third phase and changes in relation to previous phases are essentially about the emission ceiling (now a single ceiling is being applied across the Union rather than national limits). The auctioning of allowances is now the most common method of allocating allowances, while the free auctioning is becoming residual. A larger number of sectors and greenhouse gases are also covered. The possibility of buying or selling these quotas, and therefore the fact that it has a not negligible price, has as a consequence that it favours investments in clean and low-carbon technologies. The data seem to confirm the initial wishes and, in fact, the emissions of installations participating in the system are decreasing by just over 5% compared to the beginning of phase 3. A decrease of around 21% compared to 2005 is expected in 2020; in 2030 it is estimated that the decreases will be around 43%. Let's hope so. Since 2013 - as I have mentioned - the assignment takes place for consideration through auction platforms managed by regulated markets, pursuant to Regulation No 1031 of 2010. These auctions are held on two markets: one is based in Leipzig and the other in London. The number of allowances that each State - for Italy the GSE - auctiones is mainly determined on the basis of the historical emissions of installations within the scheme and present on its national territory. At least half of the proceeds from these auctions must be used to counter or reduce climate change and its effects. This is in short the mechanism of operation of the system. A recent news is that from 3 January 2018 the share of greenhouse gas emissions is classified as a financial instrument. The Regulation referred to earlier in Article 18 (3) of No 1031 of 2010 specifies that banks and investment firms may apply to participate directly in the auction on behalf of their clients, provided that the Member State in which they are established has adopted legislation allowing national regulatory authorities to authorise those entities to submit tenders on behalf of their clients. Precisely to give full implementation to these forecasts, article 11 regulates these forecasts and, in paragraph 1, letter a), introduces in the TUF (Single Text of the provisions in the matter of financial intermediation) the new article 20-b, which concerns the authorization and supervision of the subjects entitled to submit application for participation in the market of the auctions. The new paragraph 1 of the new article 20-b assigns to CONSOB the competence to authorize the entities that benefit from the exemption provided for by article 4-terdecies, paragraph 1, letter l), of the TUF to present offers in the market of greenhouse gas emission allowances, with consequent attribution to CONSOB also of the task of overseeing the respect, by the latter, of the rules of conduct established by article 59 of the aforementioned European regulation. Paragraph 2 of Article 4 gives the Consob all supervisory powers (information, investigation, inspection and intervention, as well as the power to take injunctive measures) towards authorized intermediaries. Paragraph 3 states that banks and investment firms, authorised in accordance with the applicable banking and financial discipline and registered in their respective books, are also entitled to operate in the auction market of emission allowances on behalf of their clients, if they are already authorised to provide investment trading services on their own account and/or execution of orders. Paragraph 4 specifies that CONSOB can lay down provisions both on the procedure of authorisation of intermediary entities, and on the possible withdrawal of authorisation. The possibility of imposing effective, proportionate and dissuasive administrative penalties in the event of a breach of the regulations is provided for. Our hope is that Consob will be able to carry out these functions fully, also in order to enable the European Union's objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and combating climate change to be achieved. Finally, the further hope is that Europe will return to being the welcoming home for Italian and European citizens and that it will not be perceived as a set of vexatory and bureaucratic institutions, contrary to the national interests of some states in particular, including ours. It is up to us legislators to change this perception of the citizens and to change the way we relate to the European institutions. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u96	The joint general debate is closed. The replies of the speakers and the representative of the Government will take place from 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u97	I would like to inform you that, as soon as possible, the parliamentary groups have agreed, the agenda for today's sitting is supplemented by the discussion of draft law No 920, linked to the public finance manoeuvre, on the practicality of public administrations' actions. I suspend the sitting until 4 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.53 p.m. and resumed at 16.02 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u100	GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I asked for an intervention to be taken at the resumption of the sitting on a matter which took place yesterday, and I refer to the words that Oliviero Toscani has spoken against Giorgia Meloni. I took the floor because I would like to remind the House and myself that a week ago we were all here together, united, to present and vote on motions to combat violence against women. And all the speeches in this House had something good, because they contained not only the awareness of the seriousness and seriousness of the problem, but also the awareness that there had to be no difference, that there had to be only one man. I recall the words spoken by Senator Valente, when he recalled that Parliament can only be an alliance, that we must all make a united and cohesive effort to remove explicit attempts, to defend and above all build different models of society, which must not be male or sexist. I think you all read how Oliviero Toscani spoke yesterday about Giorgia Meloni, talking about aesthetic characteristics and categories that should be very far from the assessments of us women in our political, professional, entrepreneurial role. I have never heard of fellow men who are ugly or beautiful, low or high; instead, when it comes to us women, unfortunately even today in the third millennium, we are being evaluated on the basis of aesthetic considerations. I find that Oliverio Toscani's words are not only heavy but also dangerous. And I consider this person to be an intellectual inquirer of violence against women, a bad teacher, a dangerous man because he stirs up violence against women. I would like to thank some colleges of the Democratic Party, of Forza Italia and also the President of the Council who spoke about this and called Georgia Meloni. I have been ill with friends of the League, who I recognize as important friends and allies, from whom I have not heard a single word of condemnation for what happened. I have also been ill of how sometimes words are wasted and the facts are not consequential. It was not a year ago on 25 November, but a few days ago and today in this House, if I had not taken the floor, no one would probably have wanted to emphasize this serious incident. I expect the Democratic Party to make decisions towards one of its members, besides a pseudointellectual one; a man who frequents the Gotha, who should be a reformist and should nurture respect for women, a man who should be enlightened. And instead he is a poor man, a person who, again, in the third millennium, uses this category to define women. I conclude by saying that if we do not fight the bad teachers, the intellectual leaders, then we cannot shed crocodile tears when women are killed. Let us remember Oliviero Toscani's words. [[Applause from the FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u103	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I had already intended to speak in order to express my solidarity with Giorgia Meloni for the insults she received. After all, this is not the first time that Oliviero Toscani has dispensed a little insult to everyone. Of course, we have said here on more than one occasion that women must be protected and safeguarded, but then, when some women are insulted, according to political membership, there are no voices in support. We did not make a public statement precisely because we wanted to speak in this House knowing that you, Senator Garnero Santanche, would intervene. We fully agree with the words of solidarity and we hope that the whole House will work to ensure that the continuing policy of insult is put aside a little bit and that, while respecting the ideas of each one, there will be a peaceful confrontation, as we often say in this House. In conclusion, I repeat all the solidarity of the League Group not only in the Senate, but also in the Chamber of Deputies, since I have heard Mr Molinari. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and FdI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u106	FADELI (PD). Mr President, I would like to make a speech. I thank Senator Garnero Santanchè who, on an important ground like that of language violence, particularly sexist towards women, chose to speak about yesterday's episode, serious and unacceptable, with the words addressed by Oliviero Tuscany to Congresswoman Meloni, whom we know. Although the political parties divide us into many things, yesterday, on behalf of the entire Democratic Party, I intervened immediately, as we always do to support any person offended. When we use language against us we always intervene, without making distinctions from this point of view. We know very well that when we use violent, sexist, racist and homophobic language - the root is the same, of violence and discrimination against the person - we must fight it. [[Applause from the PD, FI-BP and FdI groups]] That's all I'm allowed to say. Senator Garnero Santanchè, thank you for your intervention. I would like to see other senators and senators take a stand, as is the case on other issues. We have to agree on that. We, who here (as in the Chamber of Deputies) represent the country, must know that the violent and discriminatory language is made of exactly phrases that do not discuss the political content, but offend the person, always. When people are offended by gender, sex, skin color, race, language, religion and economic conditions (in contrast to Article 3 of the Constitution), an improper thing is being done. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I hope that in this House, in other situations, we will condemn the same violent and discriminatory languages as in Toscani yesterday. [[Applause from the PD and FdI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u109	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, even from the Movimento 5 Stars Group, I would like to express my solidarity with Mr Meloni for the attack he has received, even on a personal level, which has to do with the things that have just been mentioned in this House. We have devoted a session to remembering serious acts of violence that take place not only when one person puts his hands on another, but also - indeed, they are worse - with verbal attacks. Often verbal violence is the precondition that leads to an escalation of violence that, afterward, also becomes physical. Therefore, I think it is right to express solidarity and closeness to my colleague Meloni, who will continue to oppose politically but who certainly does not deserve the words that Oliviero Toscani addressed to her. Therefore, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Star Group, we strongly express our solidarity with President Meloni. [[Applause from the M5S, FI-BP, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u112	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I can only join in expressing my solidarity with Mr Meloni. However, I would also like to stigmatise here once again that it is good to always remember that violence against women is not just physical violence. Very often, continuously, it is also verbal violence, sexist and homophobic, as the same sentences would never have been addressed to a man, even in the most total dissent. We are seriously offended by this and, once again, we who are here, among other things elected by the citizens, should always remember this in this House. It is a gravely damaging fact of the dignity, respect and freedom of women that has been won over all these years. As we can see, however, the political and cultural battle can never cease; therefore, we do well in this House to stigmatize every time very serious incidents occur. I hope that this will happen whenever homophobic and sexist insults such as those that have been addressed to Mr Meloni, and I hope that this House will always be willing to stigmatize. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, M5S, FI-BP, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u115	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, I agree on behalf of the Forza Italia Group with what other Members have already said, expressing my full solidarity with Mr Giorgia Meloni, who must not feel personally offended by the words that have been addressed to her. The way in which they have been said, in fact, qualifies those who have spoken them much more clearly and, indeed, does not in any way affect the personality of Mr Giorgia Meloni. [[Applause from the FI-BP, M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups.]] Unfortunately, Oliviero Toscani has already distinguished himself in the past in campaigns that offend the feelings of many in our country: for example, they offend the religious sentiment of many. It is good, rightly, to denounce this last exit, which is particularly shameful; instead, one cannot applaud it when it goes in the opposite direction and when, instead of offending a woman, it offends perhaps someone else. I find this act of yours particularly despicable, as a man who offends a woman has a feeling perhaps a little conservative and worse than any other kind of offense. However, in all cases, the offences against women and men must be exhorted. Unfortunately, it is not true that men are not attacked for their physical appearance, and we could make a long list of them. Therefore, I believe that we must keep away from the violent language that - and I appreciated who said so - can often lead from verbal violence to physical violence. We see too often, in these days, chanting to those who devastate cities, to those who set fire and to those who give themselves to destructive and violent activities. Political space must be free from verbal violence and, of course, even more from physical violence. [[Applause from the FI-BP, M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u118	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the Group for the Autonomies naturally expresses solidarity with my colleague, Mr Meloni. Those spoken are typical sexist words used to degrade a political female opponent and verbal violence is the beginning of violence that then turns into serious physical violence or even feminicide. Therefore, we must fight it already at the roots. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), M5S, FI-BP, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u119	I call Senator Licheri, rapporteur on draft law No 822.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u120	Mr President, in full synthesis, I have listened very carefully to all the speeches by all the political forces in this House and if I could turn them against the light to find a common denominator, it would be this: as Europe is, we do not like it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We want a freer, more modern, faster, leaner, more attentive, more sensitive and closer Europe. I heard Senator Giammanco saying that we would like to have a President of the Commission elected by the people. The Movimento 5 Stars has always advocated participatory democracy, so it is obvious that this idea can only of course find my personal sharing. We are, however, in the process of discussing a European law which, as you know, has a particular purpose, namely to avoid Italy's infringement procedures which bear financial burdens which then affect our budgets. And it is true, as one Senator of the Brothers of Italy said, that sometimes we must swallow bitter bites, for example in the matter of access to the professions. It is true that quality standards for access to professions abroad are often far more poor and lower than ours and it is not fair; it is not right that we should lower standards for access to professions and then, at the same time, for the principle of the free movement of people, accept those who come to the professions through other channels of access that are really much softer, lighter and softer. I agree, as I also agree with the view that the profession of the Ombudsman should be protected with a greater degree of incompatibility. The directives - alas - tell us that instead we were too strict. That is why, at the beginning of my report, I thanked all the Commissioners of the Commission whom I have the honour of presiding over, because we sought a point of contemplation, on the one hand trying to protect the consumer and the producer and, of course, trying to avoid the dispute that Europe has moved us. I do not think I should add anything else, and therefore, Mr President, I shall end my reply in these terms. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u121	The minority rapporteur on draft law No 822 and the rapporteur on documents LXXXVI, No 1 and LXXXVII, No 1 give up her reply. I note that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senators Romeo and Patuanelli, No 2, Senator Bernini and other Senators, No 3, Senator Ciriani and other Senators, and No 4, Senator Pittella and other Senators, whose texts are being distributed. I call the representative of the Government to whom I also call for an opinion to be given on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u122	Mr President, the Government accepts motion for a resolution No 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u123	I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 144- bis (7) of the Rules of Procedure, in the face of several motions for resolutions, the one accepted by the Government, to which each Senator may propose amendments, is voted first. Since the Government has stated that it accepts motion for a resolution No 1, the 30-minute deadline for tabling any amendments to it is now in force. I would also like to say that the final vote on the draft European law, the vote on any amendments that we have mentioned to the motion for a resolution No 1 and the final vote on the motion for a resolution will take place at the end of the joint explanations of vote. I also note that the Presidency - and I am on the distribution side - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u124	Mr President, Amendment 1.2 (text 2) deals with the sensitive issue of compensatory measures which may be prescribed by the competent authority of the host Member State if there are discrepancies between the training followed by the professional and the training required by the host State, with the possibility of making recognition conditional on the passing of an aptitude test or an adaptation period as an alternative. The aim of the amendment is to provide, with regard to the compensatory measures envisaged for the recognition of competences, that where the choice is based on a compensatory internship, however, this provides for a final proof of the compensation of competences. The amendment therefore goes in the direction of the need for the parameters for certification of competences to be common to all Member States.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u125	Mr President, the G1200 agenda is presented by the Fratelli d'Italia Group in relation to Article 1 of the draft law under consideration. I believe that this article makes it clear that what Europe considers to be constraints we consider as guarantees for consumers, patients and clients of those who work in a professional capacity. For example, we do not understand why the measure should exclude the aptitude test as compensatory measure for those who, doctors, nurses, dentists, veterinarians, midwives, pharmacists, architects, ask to practice the profession in our country, having obtained an enabling qualification in another country where the curriculum of the studies, the examinations and the duration of the same are much less in-depth than ours. We come to the paradox, ladies and gentlemen, that in Italy there are no doctors, those present are particularly qualified and are employed abroad and we, instead, import professionals, among them also doctors or however of the health professions, who have obtained in other countries qualifications much less qualified than our own. At least, until now, there was the aptitude test before we could acquire the title to professional activity in our country; now we depreciate further and let the competent authority decide whether the compensatory measure of the aptitude test is better or even a mere internship is sufficient. In short, ladies and gentlemen, a downward race, which does not go in the direction of free competition, as Europe would like to make believe, but penalizes the weakest, precisely the citizens, who find services that are less and less adapted to their needs. This is the reality that forces us to take the will of Europe, and it is the example of a Europe which is increasingly stepmothers and which does not protect national interests, in particular Italy's interests. We do not understand, for example, why the requirement of residence should be removed for those who wish to practise a profession in Italy. In the first paragraph of Article 1 we also remove the requirement of residence to be legally established in Italy. We do not even understand - and I conclude, ladies and gentlemen - why we must always suffer these impositions, which, among other things, harm our young people, who in Italy take much longer, much more complex, much more in-depth courses and then find themselves - yes - disadvantaged towards colleagues from other countries, who come to exercise in Italy, less prepared but younger and who, being less prepared, also offer their services to much more competitive fees; as you know, when there is no quality also the price follows accordingly. That is the reality that Europe is imposing on us, and that is the reason that led us to present the agenda on G1200. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Papatheu.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u126	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the Istituto Da Vinci-Nitti in Brienza, in the province of Potenza, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u127	The remainder of the amendment is set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u128	Mr President, I am against Amendment 1.1. Then I call on Senator Parente to reword amendment 1.2 further, expunging point (a) and leaving only point (b). The Italian legislation, in fact, already provides for the passing of a final test. If my request is not accepted, I am against it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The 5th Commission also gave a negative opinion only under point (a). Mr Licheri, rapporteur on draft law No 822. As regards the G1200 agenda, I am in favour of its adoption as a recommendation, otherwise I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u129	Mr President, I am against Amendment 1.1. On Amendment 1.2, in line with what the rapporteur has just said, except for the rewording that has just been suggested, we would have voted against point (a) and voted in favour of point (b). The G1200 agenda places on the ground a number of systemic problems with regard to the organization of the professions. There are, undoubtedly, very positive reports of what is being made present. Nevertheless, we all know that the weighting or calibration of a reform of the various professions that aligns us exclusively on the softest benchmark within the European countries could have effects whose costs would be higher than the benefits, in terms of professionalism that Italy has always preserved. Our government opinion, therefore, is to accept the agenda as a recommendation, so that we can not have a commitment to achieve a softer benchmark - unfavorable to the current set-up - but to put in place a more elastic calibration, on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u130	Senator Parente, do you accept the proposed reformulation of amendment 1.2 (text 2)? Parent (PD). Mr President, I welcome it, partly because of the fact that point (a) on which the Budget Committee expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution was partially accepted by an amendment approved in the Commission. I therefore welcome the proposal of the rapporteur and the Government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Balboni, do you agree with the adoption as a recommendation of the G1200 agenda? Balboni (FdI). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.2 (text 3), tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G1200 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 1 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u131	Mr President, Amendment 2.2 takes account of the Ombudsman's typical third-party nature and its incompatibility. This amendment, however, also aims to give value to the need to offer services and has been tabled in this light.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u132	The remainder of the amendment is set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u133	Mr President, I am opposed to Amendments 2.2 (because, if accepted, it would not remove us from the infringement procedure) and 2,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u134	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u135	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Testor and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,200, tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u136	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u138	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, this article, as has also been noted and instructed in the competent Commission, has equal opportunities as regards the opening of activities relating to government concessions of salts and tobacco. Let me define this article as instrumental. It is an article contained in the so-called European law, which allows us, by implementing the provisions of the Community framework, to avoid infringements. Of course, however, compliance is not only to avoid infringements, but to give further impetus to the policy and legal consistency of equal opportunities and freedom of competition. The sale of salts and tobacco is undoubtedly important and it is necessary to allow these activities also in small municipalities, in high lands, in mountain areas, for example by trying to ensure that, alongside the resale of salts and tobacco, there is also the possibility of selling newspapers, but we would like to work and we would have liked to work with respect to the transposition of the Community support framework towards another idea of equal opportunities. On 31 December this year the deadline for Italy to take charge of the extension of the coverage of the TEN-T networks for the transport of persons and goods on the Adriatic backbone expires: there was no initiative of the Italian Government compared to this type of equal opportunity. I have asked the Parent Company and the Group Secretary to allow me to speak in this House, because I have put a specific question on this front. Today I am making a contribution on equal opportunities in the resale of cigarettes and salt and tobacco as a government concession, but we would need to activate another type of competitive dialogue, of "pull at the rope" in order to ensure that with Europe equal access to territories is achieved in favour of Italy and in the coverage of distances through the expansion of infrastructure and transport of TEN-T networks. We are abstaining on the question of the possibility of extending the management of salts and tobacco even in the high lands, while respecting the principle of population density of 1,500 inhabitants, but there is really much more to be done and to be established in terms of competitive dialogue on the basis of content and knowledge, knowing that the spirit of adaptation to the Community support framework is to build a common European area where there is freedom of movement, competition and economic integration, but also the ability to have equal opportunities vis-à-vis other territories. That is why we are sticking to the point and we hope that a debate will open, a dispute that concerns the quality of life of businesses, people and cities. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u139	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which an amendment and an agenda have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u140	The G4.1 agenda provides for the payment of previous debts of public administrations to businesses and self-employed persons. As I said this morning in my minority report, this is one of the European directives which has not been transposed and which should be reviewed. We know very well how important payments to businesses by administrations are, not least because they are companies that need to be in line with the DURC in order to get closer to government procurement, but we need to be ourselves to allow that. The payment, in Italy, is about one hundred and four days, while the European directive defines about thirty/sixty. We have asked that the resources which are currently provided for citizenship income should be used to meet this need. I think it is very important to be able to pay back the people who have worked for our administrations, to provide services to our citizens. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u141	Mr President, of course we agree with the agenda that has just been put forward and we have also signed it. For our part, we have presented another one which, in the face of the problem of non-payment by the public administration of other commercial contracts, provides for the establishment of a fund for the smaller municipalities, a kind of rotating fund with which the municipalities that are not in disrepute but simply have a temporary lack of cash can quickly meet the different needs. This is a fundamental problem for the survival of many businesses: many municipalities would like to pay, but they are not in a position to do so, also because of the rigidity of the accounting obligations which they are subject to and which we discussed during the general discussion. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u142	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendment and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u143	Mr President, I would ask you to withdraw Amendment 4,200 and turn it into an agenda, otherwise the opinion is against it. On the G4.1 agenda, signed by Senator Testor and other Senators, I would remind you that it has already been dealt with in the Commission, that there has been an invitation to reformulation, that has not been accepted and that therefore the agenda has been rejected there. However, I repeat here again the conditions that had already been proposed in the Commission for its acceptance and I therefore propose to remove from the premise, after the words "valued" that: "the next paragraph," from the words "the Government" intends to regulate with a special bill the introduction "to the words "in 2019". I propose this change because the full payment of the debts of the public administration, which is a problem that scourges our country and a rightful fact, cannot be placed in opposition to another rightful fact, which remedys another scourge, such as the discipline of the income of citizenship [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We cannot therefore wage a war between the poor: they are both themes that must have the same recognition and that have the same dignity. For this reason, therefore, if my call for reformulation were to be accepted, the opinion would be in favour. Otherwise, the opinion will be against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u144	Mr President, the Government also calls for the transformation of amendment 4200 into the agenda, because a similar mechanism concerning the possibility of paying back debts of public administrations, for virtuous local administrations, in a more comprehensive and broader and even more funded way, is being approved in the context of the simplification bill. We therefore call for the amendment to be turned into an agenda, because it is synergistic in this direction already undertaken by the Government As far as the agenda is concerned, G4.1, I agree with that of the rapporteur. We have in fact proposed the aforementioned rewording, which is in the act and which conditions its acceptance.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u145	Senator Ciriani, do you agree to turn amendment 4,200 into an agenda, as proposed by the rapporteur and the representative of the government?
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u146	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u147	Having been accepted by the Government, the G4200 agenda will not be put to the vote. Senator Testor, do you accept the rewording of the G4.1 agenda proposed by the rapporteur and the representative of the Government?
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u148	Mr President, it is clear that we have identified this chapter of expenditure, but I think that the government can tell us where they intend to recover these resources and when these payments will be implemented.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u149	Senator Testor, there is a proposal for a rewording presented by the rapporteur: do you accept this rewording?
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u150	Yes, Mr. President. The important thing is that the government undertakes to provide.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u151	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G4.1 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which an amendment has been tabled, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u152	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment 5,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u153	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u154	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5,200, tabled by Senators Bonfrisco and Pucciarelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 5 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 8, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u155	Mr President, I am in favour of amendment 8,500.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u156	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u157	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 8,500, tabled by the rapporteur, which fulfils a condition laid down by the Budget Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 8 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 12. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u158	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u160	DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr. President, look how the piano sounds! They've been voting from the station of an absent senator on the Forza Italia benches for five minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u161	I alert the Secretary Senators to control them. [[Comments from the FI-BP Group.]] Colleagues, the Rules of Procedure provide that each person shall vote personally. Voting by proxy shall not be permitted. If the senator wants to vote, she has to go to her station. MIRABELLI (PD). Senator Di Nicola is filming on his phone! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Who's filming? Senator, you can't recover. We'll take the footage. I'm gonna start seizing all the cell phones used to shoot. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I already have one under my eye: not yours, Senator, but who sits behind you, who threatened to use it. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 13, on which an amendment has been tabled, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u162	Mr President, on Amendment 13,200 I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u163	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u164	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13,200, tabled by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 14. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 16, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u165	Mr President, I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 16.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u166	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u167	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16,100, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.101, tabled by Senator Messina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.102, tabled by Senator Mirabelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 16.103, which is identical to Amendment No 16.104.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u168	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u170	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, on Amendment No 16,103 we really find it difficult to understand the meaning of the contrary opinion of the Government and the rapporteur, because in reality, through the measure we are voting on, proposed by the Government and examined in the Commission, we do not really respond to the opposite problem. The consequence is that we will not only fall into the infringement procedure, but above all that we do not intervene in the sound management of waste and in particular the waste we are talking about, namely WEEE (waste electrical and electronic equipment). What is the problem very briefly, because perhaps there is a misunderstanding and we do not understand each other? The monitoring of data is entrusted to ISPRA and, of course, also with regard to this waste, we must try at European level - and therefore also at national level - to increase the rate of separate collection. It is clear that in order to increase the differentiated collection rate, we need to have an appropriate monitoring system, and therefore data reporting system. What is the problem posed by the European Union and which is not dealt with by this measure at all? Only producers and third parties acting in their name have the burden of transferring data to ISPRA and in the Commission the same producers and consortia, who then manage WEEE, said that they do not have the complete data to be transmitted to ISPRA, because it is clear that there is a lack of data from distributors, collection centres and collection and processing facilities. On the other hand, colleagues and colleagues, the report was also made in a third way by a Chamber and Senate dossier of 8 October. If you want to go and check, on page 54 of the dossier, the officials tell us to be careful, because to respond properly and create a system that really works in the management of WEEE waste you have to intervene. The amendment that we propose is then very simple: add, in paragraph 1 (a), after the words "To this end," the producers and third parties acting in their name" the following: "distributors, collection centres, collection and treatment facilities" and then send data on WEEE annually and free of charge to ISPRA.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u171	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.103, tabled by Senator Pittella and other senators, identical to amendment 16.104, tabled by Senator Testor and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.105, tabled by Senator Sudan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 16.106, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution, limited to the number 2). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16.106, tabled by Senator Messina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 16. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 17, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u172	Mr President, we have tabled two amendments on this text, the first of which is deleterious, to point out that, in reality, the solution found does not solve the problem, because in fact it says that straw and pruning are excluded from the consideration of rejection, but on condition that they are agricultural products. So I ask myself: what is the difference between a pruning of a plant that is in a public or private garden and that of a plant that is near a farmer? The material is identical. We can take note of the remark that has been made about a stagger done on the road instead of in a field, because obviously the one on the edge of the road has a different impact - it has accumulated hydrocarbons and other - but on the prunings this theme does not exist. The reformulation proposed by amendment 17,200 aims to exclude straw, pruning and agricultural materials from the consideration of rejection because they are straw and pruning in general. Otherwise, the risk is objectively to consider rejection of material that is not. We are not talking about numbers, but about millions of tons of material which will be required to be disposed of by considering it as waste, while it could be in the availability of the owner, whether it be a private or a public body, which could dispose of it as you think best. It is a material that has a value and we turn it into a cost for disposal. I would ask the rapporteur to review and rethink this position. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u173	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u174	Mr President, I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 17, because a summary has been found in the Commission on this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u175	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u176	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 17,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u177	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u179	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, I too am in favour of the deleterious amendment and I thank Senator Taricco for presenting and explaining it. I try to say it another way, but it's the same thing. With this measure it applies, without an infringement procedure, in a very particular and bureaucratic way a rule for which, from the moment it enters into force (i.e. in a few days or weeks), all the cracks and prunings that amount to millions of tons, as Senator Taricco has recalled, deriving from the private work of a garden and not of a field, because otherwise they would be agricultural (but only if the work was carried out by a farmer or by those who are classified as such, while if it was carried out by a worker or an employee, who does it in the cuttings of time and is not registered as a farmer, the field would be equated with a garden) and by activities carried out on behalf of public administrations must be treated as special waste, with all the limitations and costs - I do not know if the Commission budget has assessed this aspect - in order to confer this enormous quantity of material in the appropriate landfills, with the enormous problems of which we should all be aware, also for the dramas and tragedies of these times (and not only of these times) in the disposal of waste. By voting for the deleterious amendment, we want to prevent tens of millions of euros being spent on bureaucratisation of the mowed grass and the cut branch, because these are the same either from a field cultivated by a farmer, or from a garden or from a municipal park, whose maintenance is entrusted to the municipality. Here we charge costs to individuals and public administrations to do falsely and bureaucratically environmentally friendly treatment. In fact, it is quite the opposite: what is more natural that dried grass is where it is or is managed otherwise, but without landfilling along with hazardous waste or, in any case, waste itself? We try not to go against the citizens in a fierce, useless and stupid way, as unfortunately this article, without there probably being any intention, is doing. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u180	This article really contains a pearl and I would like the amendment to delete it, because it is the first time I have seen it in a law. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17,100, tabled by Senator Taricco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 17,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u181	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u183	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, I would remind you that when the municipal authorities, of all political colors, ask you why you voted in this way, I do not know if they will appreciate the excuse: that is what the Parent Company said to us, so the Government told us. We will vote in favour of amendment 17,200, which clearly extends the rule to prunings that do not come from agricultural activities, which, as Senator Taricco said, are by definition identical in all respects to agricultural prunings, in order to prevent millions of tons of branches, twigs and leaves from being landfilled as special waste. The charges are levied on citizens, directly for those who have a garden and indirectly on all through municipal taxes, the costs of waste disposal and to manage the landfills where this material will have been unnecessarily conferred.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u184	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u186	Mr Licheri, rapporteur on draft law No 822. Mr President, I would like to speak for the sake of clarity. The European Commission has pointed out in the EU-Pilot case that I have mentioned the incorrect transposition into our national law of the European standard which clearly defines agricultural materials excluded from the definition of waste. We didn't have much room for manoeuvre: either inside or outside. We have found a point of sharing, but certainly if we go too far then we fall back into the infringement again. [[Comments from the FI-BP Group]] That's what I wanted to say. We have worked and we have done so with the contribution of all political forces, but unfortunately we have to deal with the rigidity of the European standard. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u187	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17,200, tabled by Senator Taricco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 17.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u188	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u189	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u190	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, I will be even shorter than before, but now there is still an opportunity to reject this absurd rule by voting against the article: it can be done, then everything else is voted. The rapporteur surprised us with his Europeanism: Europe is asking for it, so it is fair to say that a branch cut from a public garden is different from that cut from a peach by a farmer. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Would this be the great fight against abuse, against the bureaucratism of the European Union? Is that sovereignism? Europe is asking for this and we are therefore voting for a scientific, practical absurdity that costs millions and millions to Italian taxpayers! [[Extended applause from the FI-BP, FdI and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u191	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u192	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u193	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, I would like to clarify the matter technically. First of all, agricultural products are already covered by a derogation provided for in law, so they are in fact already excluded from the consideration of refusal, so we are not talking about this. We are talking about the possibility of treating agricultural products as those of private non-farmers or public bodies. From this point of view, it is true that the EU-Pilot case asked for a revision of the text, but the old text, if you go to review the current one, referred in a timely way, for all productions, to those made by public bodies. Amendment 17,200 proposed a simplification that goes in the direction of transposition of what the EU-Pilot supports, but taking into account the concrete situations. I believe that by approving Article 17 as it is, we will create considerable damage to public bodies. I quote just one fact: the estimates made on this material speak of 2 million tonnes; take into account the impact this will have, in particular on public bodies, but also on private individuals, in economic terms, of having to pay for the disposal of a product that could be a resource to be used in positive terms. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u194	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 17. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 17,0.100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u195	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u197	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, with Amendment No 17,0.100, proposed by the Fratelli d'Italia Group, we are continuing our battle in favour of the school's precarious. The Italian school is the sector of public life with the greatest number of precarious, more than double than in other sectors. We now have the opportunity, with this amendment, to prevent Italy from being condemned by the European Union and to suffer condemnations from our own courts for the right to be stabilized by those staff who have achieved thirty-six months of employment. Moreover, with the approval of this amendment we would give our children the opportunity to have a teaching continuity, overcoming all the functional and organizational difficulties of 8,000 educational institutions that are constantly looking for staff, marrying a battle and responding to a wait of thousands of teachers and non-teaching staff. Today we have the possibility, in the blackberries of a law that we do not know what time it can have, with a simple amendment, to really achieve change, rather than just to declaim it. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u198	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17,0.100, tabled by Senators Iannone and Fazzolari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 17,0.101.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u199	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u201	BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I note that with Amendment No 17,0.101, Mrs De Petris, by engaging in a rather dubious procedure (which, however, is an EU-Pilot), intends to amend the national hunting law. As many know, I would also like to, but I believe that a strong argument to vote against the amendment is the proposal to make ISPRA opinions binding on regional hunting calendars. This is precisely at a time when our country is distinguishing itself at European level for an ISPRA opinion that is different, on the time and on the hunting calendars, from those of all similar European scientific institutes and even of at least 12 Italian scientific institutes. Among other things, they are among those who are convinced that ISPRA is an autonomous entity and not subject to political influence, but, in recent months, the same ISPRA has changed its opinion further, it is not known why, compared to the opinions previously expressed. Therefore, as far as I am concerned, this is precisely the right time to express so many questions about the opinions of ISPRA and it is certainly not the time to put into the hands of ISPRA something that, instead, the legislator entrusts in the hands of the Regions.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u202	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u203	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u204	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, first of all I must say that this is a strange procedure: now we are making explanations of vote after the vote! BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). We haven't voted yet! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can't hear anything, Senator. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). But it's okay, I'm open to all the news and, apparently, this has become a practice too. I'd like to give Senator Bruzzone an answer so he can stay on the record. Then we will be able to discuss ISPRA and binding opinions as much as we want, but I would like to reiterate, so that it remains in the minutes, that fauna is the state's unavailable heritage. Therefore, it is right that ISPRA's mandatory opinion should be given on the withdrawal and on the hunting calendars. It's unavailable state assets! [[Applause from Senator Buccarella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u205	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17,0.101, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 18. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 19. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u206	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u207	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u208	BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my staff and other colleagues in the Mixed Group, I am voting for an abstention on Community law: not because we have great disagreements about the individual directives, but because of other reasons that I shall explain. Having followed with great interest the whole debate, in fact what has not come out, but which has been our reality for a long time, is the fragility of the Italian presence in the ascending phase of directives and regulations, that is, when we begin to discuss directives and regulations before they are adopted. Normally, this has been the case for years and has always been the case, the fragility of both structures and funding of the Ministry of European Affairs means that Italy is little present at this stage in which directives or legislative proposals are invented and always arrives at the last minute. This is not because our diplomats are less good than others or because Europe is a stepmother, but simply because, very often, our diplomats either do not get directions from the government, or they arrive at contradictory ones, in the sense that many ministers give different indications. It was tried, in 2006, to form an interministerial committee that could give timely and univocal indications to our representatives of the government, as well as to our parliamentarians. All this has fallen and causes us very often to arrive at the last minute, when the agreement has already been done, even in situations that we could have straightened out before. Therefore, if I may make a suggestion for the future, we need to strengthen the coordination capacity of the Ministry of European Affairs vis-à-vis the other Ministries, so that it can be more effective. The second reason why I shall abstain is to underline, ladies and gentlemen, a serious, serious and profound dissent both on the substance of the latest proposals made by the Government in Brussels and on the way and method of dealing with European partners, which is often, ladies and gentlemen, a mixture of arrogance, derision and over-followment, when not of real ignorance, with relative lies to networks unified from morning to evening. An authoritative Deputy Minister, for example, has consistently argued that the Italian contribution to the EU budget amounts to 20 billion. It is not true: Italy's net contribution to the EU budget varies between three and four billion because 14 billion is given and 11 returns as subsidies to agriculture, among other things, or to the structural funds. Another authoritative political character, pretending not to deal with numbers, declares with great enough to wait anxiously for many letters of Santa Claus. All accompanied by promises of punches thrown on the table or high-sounding statements and sometimes a little murky, which fortunately in the vast majority of cases remain unfamiliar. As we see these days, the result of this report technique, or politics, is not exactly brilliant. Now it is a question of figuring out who is being left with the wax in hand and going back to Brussels to make big marches. I do not know whether it will be left to the President-in-Office of the Council, the people's lawyer, or whether it will be left in the hands of Minister Tria, but someone will obviously have to take it back. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not how relations are managed at international or European level. You cannot always win, of course: you negotiate and negotiate all the more strongly the more the country is credible and if you continue to destroy every day the credibility of this country from the institutional point of view and from the economic point of view, you are certainly not doing a great service to the Italian citizens. It may succeed, say, in your present election campaign, but be careful when you are forced, as you are now in the budget law, to a bath of reality. This reality will hurt all of us. I'm afraid it'll hurt you, too. More attention to Europe, more seriousness, less hoax, less fake news and a little more commitment I think is what we all need. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Unterberger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u209	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u210	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u211	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, although I know that we are talking about a law that complies with European regulations, I will allow myself to include this law in a more general framework. For us in the Group for Autonomies, Europe is an indispensable point of reference. The territories that we represent believe in the value of Europe, our fellow citizens feel that they belong to that common home that meant breaking down borders and joining together with the stories and cultures from which we come. That is why we have criticized the Government for its often hostile and offensive words towards Europe, an attitude which, in our opinion, has not led to a benefit. We are the first to say that there are so many things in Europe that have not worked and that must change, that the season of mere austerity after the great crisis has only aggravated the problems, that we needed and need to give another image than that of bureaucrats distant from the concrete lives of people. We share all this, but we would like an Italy that is in the front row in Europe to reaffirm its unity with respect to the major global challenges, the role of the emerging countries, that of Russia and America of Trump. An Italy that asks Europe to take on the issue of immigration in an intelligent and collective way, knowing that we need articulated policies to govern a phenomenon that will be the great theme of the next ten years. An Italy that encourages Europe to move forward on new citizenship rights, the right to the environment and quality of life, the protection of personal data and that of consumers from unfair commercial practices. We believe that this is the role of a founding country, a country that certainly has reasons for the European framework, but that without Europe would be condemned to international marginality. We hope that Italy will take an active part already in the ascending phase of the creation of European legislation. The article of the measure takes exactly the role of Europe. A lazy reading is that of the adaptation of the systems, but the truth is that Europe, in doing so, urges the Member States to measure themselves on a whole range of measures and issues, from justice, to the environment, to health. We welcome the rule on tobacco dealers, for the simple reason that these outlets, especially in small mountain areas, are multifunctional centres in areas at risk of depopulation precisely because of the absence of services. As well as the commitment, reiterated in the Commission, for faster payment times to issue invoices. These are just small examples, but I think they do well what I said earlier, namely the way in which Europe can call for positive action and measures. We hope then that the season of the clash will be archived and that a new phase can be opened instead. Already in summer, at the summit where the voluntary relocation of asylum seekers was decided, it was understood that the countries of Visegrád were not interested in Italy. There has also been evidence of economic manoeuvre, when they said they were in favour of opening the procedure. For this reason, the new page can only see Italy at the heart of the European process, as it has always been in history: a country that works for its unity and to open a new phase, of profound reforms. That is our wish and that is the invitation we make to the government. I therefore announce the Group's abstention vote on the measure. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u212	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u213	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u214	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, like every year, we begin this rite of Italy's submission to the European Union. It is a bit like the feudal homage that existed in the relations between lords and vassals and we too, today, in this House, perform this rite in which we say we are subject to the will of the European Union and we must do this due act. This is not even the case for Europe, but it is Europe's order to do so. Unfortunately, we have had an example of this in today's debate. It is not obvious, however, that this should be the case. They have told us that European legislation, for our transfer of sovereignty, is placed in a condition superior to internal legislation, even to the Constitution, and therefore, where there are rules that run counter to our order, we annually act of submission and adapt ourselves. Even in the name of European law, we have used the terms: "Fulfillment of the obligations deriving from the belonging of Italy to the European Union": we could have used a title less servile than what we have chosen, but this is unfortunately because the law is of 2012, a period in which we, with the Government Monti, sanctioned the loss of the sovereignty of Italy in all its areas. It is precisely in 2012 that constitutional reform has created this very serious situation, in fact, of Italy's subjection to a not better specified sovereignty of the European Union. Articles 97, 117 and 119 have been revised, where, in essence, an automaticism is created of the need for Italy to adapt to European legislation, all in a system that also provides for Article 75 of our Constitution, which prohibits the possibility of popular referendums to express itself regarding international treaties. This monstrosity was created, not by chance, by a Government wanted and imposed by the foreign Chancellors and the European Union against the Government legitimately elected by the Italian people, with the coup d'état of 2011 and not only by us, who are dangerous sovereignists and patriots, but also by all the lawyers, who certainly know more about these matters than we do. It is worth mentioning, for example, Calamandrei, a constituent father and one of the main Italian lawyers, who writes: When the constituent fathers weighed, word by word, period by period, the text of the Constitution, they imagined it as the fundamental law of the Republic, as the (solo) source of the civil coexistence of Italians, as the only pillar of the country's institutional life, but also of the freedoms and rights of citizens. Then someone good comes and tells us that Article 10 and Article 11 of the Constitution require Italy to submit to the will of the European Union. Also on this, Benedetto Conforti (many of us have studied in his books at the university) tells us: It is true that Articles 10 and 11 provided for an opening to sources of supranational law, but it is also true that those forecasts were confined in the context of a physiological recognition of the legal effects of international covenant law and the limitations imposed by the need to ensure peace and justice between nations. Article 10 of our Constitution does not provide for the possibility of subjecting our national legislation, our Constitution, to European legislation. And, again, Councillor Carlo Deodato, President emeritus of the Constitutional Court Paolo Maddalena and all those who have an intellectual honesty. All this because of the banality that our Constitution, which we continue to define as the most beautiful in the world, says in Article 1 that "Sovereignty belongs to the people". If sovereignty belongs to the people, only these parliamentary assemblies have the possibility of deciding and issuing binding rules for the people. It almost seems that we don't have the confidence of what's going on, a bit like the violinists on the Titanic. In 2010, the European Union's popularity was 74 percent in Italy; in 2018 it collapsed to 38 percent. In the meantime, the United Kingdom has abandoned the European Union and throughout Europe the popularity of the European Union has reached its lowest: that something is wrong, we should all ask ourselves that. President Calderoli, just now, wanted to point out something objectively nice: this House has ruled on fecal matters (Article 17 of the European law), because the European Union also determines how we should deal with fecal matters; but in the European Union itself we each do our own foreign policy. So if, at some point, France decides to bomb Libya, that's fine, because there is no European constraint to prevent war against the interests of another Member State of the European Union; on the other hand, they tell us whether the fecal materials must be treated as waste or not. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] What, then, do we support? Brothers of Italy wants to bring back the relationship between Italy and the European Union to that imagined even by our constituent Fathers and which any sovereignist recognizes. Therefore, that there can be no automatic imposition of European legislation on Italian legislation and that national interest should always prevail. We have formalized it with the constitutional reforms of the articles that I mentioned, 97, 117 and 119, and also today, in the motion for a resolution that we have tabled and that I was pleased to learn that the Government will accept as an amendment to the majority motion for a resolution. We ask that from now on, in addition to assessing the impact of the European law on Italian legislation, a principle that is very dear to the current parliamentary and government majority, that is, the impact assessment and the study of costs and benefits, because we annually approve European law and then discover that this has very serious consequences for our legislation, for citizens and for businesses. We are happy if the Government will confirm that it wishes to accept our amendment 1.7 to motion for resolution No.1, by which we call for the relationship between Community and national sources to be brought back to the proper level, by giving Parliament, which represents the sovereign people, the ownership of full legislative power, today subject to the constraints of the European order, improperly considered superior and prominent in relation to the Constitution. I hope that everyone understands the importance of the amendment that we have tabled. Despite this, we will not vote in favour of the measure; we would have voted against European law, but with the transposition of this amendment, we declare our abstention vote, hoping that this innovation, which is fundamental to our nation, has actually followed. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u215	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u216	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u217	PITTELLA (PD). Mr President, we in the Democratic Party will abstain, with the reasons that have already been announced by Mr Ginetti, especially because of the ambiguity that the Italian Government has towards European policies and the Community institutions. I think that European law is an important moment, not for the submission of the national Parliament to the European institutions, but for the verification of the incorporation of European legislation into national law. Community law must always be accompanied by consideration of the new features introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon, which gave national parliaments the power to intervene on the profiles of proportionality and subsidiarity. It was then thought that this was supposed to be a sort of locket in the hands of national parliaments, to hinder European activity; instead, it was an important lever of involvement. We know that. The President of the European Union's Political Commission and the Commission themselves know how much work we are doing to express our views on all the measures and I believe that we need to strengthen both the European Policy Department and the European Union's Political Commission. I say that from an opposition position, but I am absolutely convinced that it is useful for the Commission to do its job and to respond to those two principles. But Community law is also an opportunity for a debate on political issues. Here we have two great themes before us, which must receive greater attention from this assembly. The first theme, which seems to have been almost forgotten, is Brexit. A very different reality is being consumed from that which the supporters of Brexit had imagined. Remember Nigel Farage's mocking smile when he said that with Brexit the British would regain all their autonomy and freedom, ensuring themselves and their children magnificent and progressive fates? We should compare that smile and arrogance with the raw reality that today presents to the British an agreement for which, if it is okay, if they accept it, if they vote in Parliament, they will have a customs union that will last for several decades. I wonder what benefits the British people have had from Brexit. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I say this because wandering is human, but persevering is diabolical. I say this again to those who speak or have spoken in the past of Grexit or to those who have spoken even of Italexit: be careful to measure words, because when you ride battles and tease the emotions and feelings of people, you can take your citizens towards the ravine. The other issue is the budget law. I see that there is now, at least in tones and forms, a greater levity, a greater lightness, but in recent months we have seen a very harsh attitude of contrast of the Italian Government, through a budget proposal that created considerable problems and concerns, to the Italians first of all, for the overcoming of the deficit and especially for the consequences on the debt. We cannot afford to open a debt infringement procedure, which is different from the deficit infringement procedure. Senator colleagues and fellow senators, pay attention to this crucial step: we are not here to accept the Diktats of a Europe that wants to impose austerity on us, because the latter has been archived for some years, thanks also to our battles and also to the battles that the Italian central-left governments have made. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The problem today, therefore, is not to raise the wall against a supposed austerity. The problem today is to wage a battle together for Europe to be endowed with new instruments, a budget that is truly up to the challenges of Europe, with a fiscal capacity capable of producing investments on a European scale. Other than Italy's submission: we need Europe to implement a major European plan for work and investment, for the creation of new, good jobs in the name of sustainability. [[Applause from the PD Group]] All this we can do if we do together not to destroy, not to use Europe as an electoral manifesto to gain some consensus (and I doubt that on this ground we gain consensus), but to work together to defend what needs to be defended and to change what needs to be changed. There is so much to change and we can do it together: the policies of governing the migration flows of asylum seekers, the scaffolding and the economic and financial governance of the European Union, social policies. We can do this together. Therefore, our amletic doubt is whether this Government and this majority will want to continue on the path of antithesis and the use of Europe as an instrument of electoral propaganda, risking bringing Italian citizens to the same ravine that the British have been brought to by those who have supported Brexit, or will want to do battles with us to strengthen Europe, to defend what needs to be defended and to change what needs to be changed. If this second is the choice, we will not fail to make our contribution. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u218	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u219	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u220	BONFRISCO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, not only the academic world and the political world, but even historians, Mr Pittella, are beginning to experience the great European crisis. Looking at the historical curve we are in, they wonder how it is possible that the continent that for years has built a political project involving 27 states and 500 million inhabitants - against, for example, the 300 million of the United States - with a GDP equal to or greater than that of the United States, equal to about 20 trillion dollars, and with a geopolitical centrality primary to the Mediterranean, the Balkans and the Atlantic, and today in this profound crisis. Hiding the limits and mistakes of the European project does not, however, serve Europe well, Mr Pittella. To put it to Angelo Panebianco, dealing with Europe also means dealing with the limitations and defects of European construction and that process of harmonization, which obviously must not have been so harmonious. If, in spite of the fact that Italy has paid EUR 50 billion for banks and Member States as a net contributor, after maneuvers of cuts in public spending of more than EUR 200 billion in ten years, the poor in Italy have doubled, the rich millionaires have increased by 10% and - mockery, my colleague Pittella - the public debt has increased - heard - by 30%, this means that some error has been made [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] and there was no government that this majority supported, but there were other governments. We have already said so on other occasions: if the rules apply to someone depending on the political seasons, they do a bad service to Europe. If France has been able to be in infringement proceedings over nine long years and exercise a great political leadership in its axis with Germany; if Germany can use, for example, 3.1 percent of its gross domestic product in state aid - I stress this - and we only 0.22%, that means that not only has Europe made a mistake, but that we too have made a mistake. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] And we too are wrong when, at all costs, we want to remember the great achievements of Europe (which we defend with our teeth) we forget the end they made Greece do, in order to pay the debts of the German and French banks. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] They came from all the Member States and went to Greece formally and quickly into the banks of the French and German banks. Or when we forget about that tax dumping of some countries, such as Luxembourg, against other countries, especially those with strong economies like ours. Our economy is indeed a strong one, if we can still be the second manufacture in Europe, despite the crisis and despite the Italian and European rules against business. We need a tax regime that helps us to keep our companies in Italy and to welcome companies from Europe into our territory, and not just from there, to continue to grow, because there is no possible growth without companies. It is a European madness to think of reducing world pollution by decree, in which, moreover, we participate by a minimum percentage, mortifying and preventing the companies of the traditional European economy from keeping up with the times, with the innovations and also with the restructuring. Two directives have been cited, for example: that of plastics, as Mr Urso has done very well, and even more so that resulting from the decisions of the trialogue. Despite the fact that the European Commission indicated a way and a point of arrival in order to reduce our CO2 emissions, we have seen the European Parliament working in order to be able to anticipate that deadline again and to put in the most dramatic, almost desperate conditions the company of the car and its components, which is Italian as well as German. And do we want to talk about the discharge on Italy of the migratory tragedy in the Mediterranean? Does spread count more or the most powerful and rapid speculation on the price of oil, which is changing the connotations of the world economy? And who deserves the offence if we do not look at the new agreement of the former NAFTA, which has just been reformed by those countries, which will constitute the most efficient and important market and free trade - to which, moreover, my colleague Mr Pittella, will look with particular attention the Brexit - which introduces for the first time, before the definition of free market and free trade, also and even before the definition of "righteous"? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Where the right is understood that the work of people and peoples lies in economic growth, which is different from development, in an indispensable way. There can be no growth unless there is respect for the work and ability of people to conquer, only through work, their rights, their dignity and their achievements. I therefore conclude, Mr President, by taking up a quotation from Mrs Casolati this morning, recalling Churchill's words. In this European law, we have seen little of ourselves. However, the timing - it has been explained very well by the rapporteurs - could only allow this. It is the next European law on which we will be judged and will bring to the Italians the result of our work. It is the next European law in which we would like to write those policy lines for Europe, for a harmonisation of the peoples of Europe, where Italy is among the founding countries; where Italy, as a founding country - I have already said so - will be responsible for rebuilding this Europe, giving it back strength, value and dignity. So, continuing to quote Churchill, successes and failures come and go, they're passengers; what matters is that we continue to believe in our ability to change things and improve them. And also from this vote in favour of us we make our precise desire to change the future of Europe and therefore of our country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and FdI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u221	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u222	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u223	Masini (FI-BP). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, after the previous speaker, I would like to return to what we are about to vote on. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We know, as the rapporteur has reminded us, that the adoption of European law makes it possible to remedy or avoid infringement proceedings by the European Union against Italy. It is not only a formal but also a substantial act, through which our country is in compliance with the transposition of European legislation. I would like to stress this point for a reason on which I would like to draw your attention, and for this reason allow me a small premise. Forza Italia is clearly and firmly pro-European. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We have never called into question membership of a common European home, which we believe must be built even more on its foundations today in order to respond to the competition that comes mainly from Asian countries. However, we cannot fail to admit - we agree with many speeches - that over the years the European dream has not been realized as we would have liked and hoped for. But today we wouldn't want it to break completely. Where bureaucracy has prevailed over politics and rigidities and closing attitudes have prevailed, the Union has indeed faltered. Well, we believe that it is precisely the adoption of European law that can be an important opportunity to make our voice heard, to write a piece of rules too and not to suffer them supinely. We must and we want to get into order, but bearing in mind the national interest and recovering a part of our autonomy that would otherwise end up being crushed. With this year's law the government has dealt with different issues: two infringement procedures and three cases of prelitigation. It also intended to implement two very important directives on the best procedures for the manufacture of medicinal products for human use and another, of great social value, on the limitation of copyright for the benefit of blind people. It was also intended to fully transpose the regulations on auctions for greenhouse gas emission allowances and customs duties. Finally, an international agreement regulating relations between Italy and the Kingdom of Norway and Iceland on the European arrest warrant was intended to be implemented. It is clear that most of the issues dealt with have a concrete impact on the lives of each of us, such as health issues, or those that affect the activities of our companies, and on which we have called for a greater commitment from the Government. I am thinking of what has been proposed by Forza Italia, intervening on Legislative Decree No 206 of 2007, in order to fully implement Community Directive 36 of 2005 on the recognition of professional qualifications. It is precisely on this point that we have put forward a very important agenda: this is a direct point, because it is one thing to promote the free movement of workers; it is another to sell off our skills, not to recognize the value of our training and not to protect our professions and our wealth of knowledge. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The Community Directive, in relation to the professions of surgeon, nurse, dentist, veterinarian, midwife and pharmacist, by way of derogation from other professions, provides that it is the Member State - this is important - which hosts the professional to identify the compensatory measure for the recognition of the profession itself, if there are differences in training. The news is full of cases of doctors not so suitable for the exercise of such a delicate profession and through our proposal we have intended to say enough to the improvised doctors. The path of recognition of the exercise of this profession must be made more stringent, and for this reason we have proposed that alongside the aptitude test there should be a compulsory adaptation internship. It therefore seems clear to us that ours is a proactive, proactive attitude that we ask the Government to assume, not only to prevent Italy from being subject to other infringement procedures, but above all to reaffirm the principle of the recovery of our sovereignty through concrete actions and not slogans. This is true of the agenda on the European Union Solidarity Fund, through which we called for the Government to immediately activate the procedures for requesting such resources to be allocated to areas affected by the floods of the last year, as well as for the restoration of damaged infrastructure. But we also asked the government to allocate the resources planned to finance interventions, including the income of citizenship, aimed at the reconstruction, in the first place, of damaged infrastructure. This proposal has not been accepted as requested by us. The same attitude was also adopted in response to another important agenda. As you know, Italy has been subject to an infringement procedure for late payments by the public administration, among other things, promoted by the then Commissioner for Industry and Vice President of the European Commission, our Antonio Tajani. Because of the liquidity crisis, caused precisely by the late, if not by the lacked, payments of public administrations, many entrepreneurs were forced to stop production, not to pay the employees anymore and to permanently close their business. In 2014, the center-left government adopted urgent measures to heal these debts, committing itself and even indicating a precise date - if I remember correctly it was St. Matthew - by which this result would be achieved. Of course, the story has gone in a different direction. We will seek other saints to whom we appeal. In any case, at Forza Italia we want to stress that we have missed a great opportunity to make European law a not only task. We could, in fact, have responded to the infringement procedure, which has already been opened, committing ourselves with courage and conviction to subordinate the adoption of a welfare measure, such as the income of citizenship, to the full payment of the previous debts of public administrations. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The answer to our position - and I do not want the representative of the Government - that we have heard in the Commission was frankly a little embarrassing: we do not pay our companies because otherwise we produce new deficits. However, at the same time, the Government is willing to create further deficits in order to continue with its electoral propaganda dispensing tips to the Italians. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Let us welcome the timid, active repentance we have witnessed in this House today, but it is not enough for our eyes and our demands. So there is also - and I stress this too - a vision of the future in this law. Since everyone has quoted, I will quote Victor Hugo: The future is the door, the past is the key to it. Let us therefore look forward to a vision of the future which, however, goes beyond the correction of Italian rules as a result of procedures already initiated or under way at European level. It is not a political figure of the second floor, because we cannot complain about the loss of sovereignty - a word dear to many people - if we do nothing at first to regain credibility, authority, incisiveness even by making proposals, anticipating remarks and not just trying to defend the indefensible or fighting to obtain flexibility clauses that generate other deficits. Nor can we go on with slogans - I repeat - and then reject amendments, such as the one rejected in this House today on the splits in pruning, or propose policies - let me read a step from the Government's resolution - common on immigration with a sharing by the Member States both in the protection of external borders and in the reception for a fair distribution of the pressures resulting from migratory flows. There's something squealing because of the relationship with Visegrád's friends. We also needed - and I stress this too - an extra effort through this European law to defend national interest, above all by protecting our productive fabric which is of absolute excellence and which is the backbone of this country. The risk of losing our achievements is always around the corner. It is our task to defend these achievements every day in Italy and Europe. We should learn to take advantage of every opportunity we have to defend them in Italy and Europe. For this reason I announce, not without a little bitterness for the missed occasion, the abstention vote of the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u224	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u225	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u226	LOREFICE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a member of the Government, I have listened carefully to the many speeches. I had prepared a written text, but most of my considerations were anticipated. I will therefore go with my arms. I wanted to engage in some statements starting from Brothers of Italy, who stressed that the yellow-green government has an attitude of submission and servile towards Europe. The Government of Change has clear the role of Italy in Europe, but it also has clear that Europe is fundamental for the continuation of our nation's activities. Our political action is within the European Union. By also clinging to what my colleague Mr Bonfrisco said, the yellow-green government of change wants to escape all hesitation. We are convinced of Europeanism; therefore, those who say otherwise do not know on what basis these statements can make. My colleague, Mr Pittella, also spoke of the ambiguity of the current Government towards Europe. Therefore, all the more so and with increasing vigour, I want to say that our Government has no ambiguity. We are convinced of Europeanism, but we want to make it clear that the government of the 5 Star Movement and the League wants to change its approach. We know perfectly well that Italy without Europe cannot oppose the global giants, so we must stay within Europe, but having made it clear that some internal rules must be properly approached and changed. Therefore, we must always have clear, careful, timely and precise objectives. We must always put at the centre the needs of the citizens, of the last, of all those who have so far passively suffered the decisions of governments that over the years, with their policies, have forced millions of Italians to hunger. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We can no longer afford the so-called debt containment policies, which, however, go further to penalise those categories, so small and medium-sized enterprises and small workers must be supported with careful policies. We in Movimento 5 Stars know this and now we must decline it with policies within the actions of the Government and this Parliament. From the timely explanation of vote on the European law that I had prepared, I understood that it moves within precise areas, declining the various passages, and through Law No 234 of 2012 allows us to make the best use of this instrument. By means of European law, we put an end to infringement procedures, or, as we have written in the text of the draft law, we have remedied EU-Pilot cases, the failure to transpose directives, which we have certainly not caused. As my colleague, Mr Bonfrisco, rightly said, this European law has been found in part and in a moment of transition between the old and the new government we have not been allowed to deal adequately, including within the programmatic report our real issues, contained also in the government contract (if you want I can also read part of it). As indicated in this binding agreement between the parties, we will, through political actions, put our hand on new proposals, on issues which we consider essential to bring to Europe. There are limits to current European legislation, so we must be good, but together with others, because alone or trying to impose our thoughts without dialogue we will not have the opportunity to affect as a great country which we are, together with French and Germans. The latter have so far played the lion's part, but the German locomotive has also stopped, so Germans and French must also reflect on the approach and importance of Italy in the European Union. We must not forget this, but we must make this clear in the appropriate places. Our President-in-Office of the Council in the previous two resolutions has already given quite clear and precise guidelines; he will shortly return to those classrooms to bring our thoughts. In this draft European law we have succeeded - both of the Movimento 5 Stars and our colleagues in the League - in integrating very important issues, which have always seen the human and social aspects at the centre. We have managed to remedy problems related to rules that were going to reduce the scope of already unfortunate categories, i.e. the blind or the visually impaired. We have therefore had the opportunity to remedy problems related to environmental issues and the recovery of matter. I remind myself that one of the five stars of Movimento represents the environment. On environmental protection we have always built and will continue to do so. Therefore, the recovery of matter and the circular economic are all issues that will be part of our journey and we will be together with our fellow travelers, attentive to various issues and, in particular, to this. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Mrs Bonfrisco said that she would wait a year (so until the next European law) to give a judgment. I raise: I think of a journey that must last five years, because we will be together five years. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the FI-BP Group]] Only at the end of a five-year journey will we have and will you have the opportunity to judge, as we have done and as the Italians have done, because the final judgment is only and exclusively of those who vote for us and allows us to stay here. [[Comments from the FI-BP Group]] I still remember the first day, when I entered the Chamber and I took my place among these minds, with almost reverential fear. I have to say that relations, even with oppositions (especially within the European Union's political Commission, of which I am a member), have been pleasantly constructive from the outset, beyond the different positions and opinions. Therefore, in addition to my President, I would like to thank all the members of the European Union's Political Commission. It is important to understand that, only united in the diversity of positions between majority and opposition, we will be able to influence and the European theme cannot be underestimated. We're not doing this. I would like to invite everyone - especially the opposition, because the majority is not useful - to reflect. Let us remember that our words on the outside have a weight. I didn't want to name the spread, but I'm doing it now. Let us be careful how we use certain words, because our clumsy use of certain words affects the lives of Italians. Mr President, for all these reasons, I am voting in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group. Thank you all, and I apologize for the voice down. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u227	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). We now come to the examination of motion for a resolution No 1, accepted by the Government, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u228	The opinion is opposed to all the amendments, with the exception of amendment 1.7, on which the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u229	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u230	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Pittella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Pittella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Pittella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Pittella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Pittella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.6 tabled by Senator Pittella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u231	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u232	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u233	PITTELLA (PD). Mr President, I am very surprised at the favourable opinion on this amendment to motion for a resolution No 1. I have just heard the speech by Mr Lorefice, who pointed out (and I am very happy about this) a frankly Europeanist position of the Movimento 5 Stars. By the way, I know that in other parts of the majority there is also the same position. In this amendment it is argued that national parliaments should be given some sort of primacy over Community sources. This is something that does not exist, in the sense that national legislation has to deal with certain matters and the European situation has to deal with other matters. Parliaments have the power to express, as we are doing, their opinion on proportionality and subsidiarity. And when a number of Parliaments make a negative assessment, the European Commission's proposal is withdrawn. Now, instead, assuming that there is a sort of preventive veto of national parliaments over European legislation means not knowing the functioning of all the Treaties, both European and Italian, and national treaties, and it means expressing a position that will be useless, harmless, but that, symbolically speaking, is highly damaging. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u234	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u235	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u236	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Pittella for his speech, because it is true that the amendment tabled by Brothers of Italy is a revolutionary amendment for this House. Therefore, the fact that we have been given a favourable opinion is very welcome, but it is right that this House should have full confidence in what we are voting on. We are voting for a sovereign decree that establishes the supremacy of the Italian Constitution and the Italian norm over the European norm. We have always said in recent years, and it has also been said by the highest positions of the State, that the fact that European legislation is placed in a position of supremacy over Italian legislation is a monstrosity which, thanks to this amendment, we today declare as such. The fact that this one that we are going to approve today is, as Senator Pittella said, a very strong issue is very true. But it is not true that this is something out of the world. And I say this not with my words but with those of someone who is much more prepared than me, that is the President emeritus of the Constitutional Court Paolo Maddalena (which I know is also pleasing to the Movimento 5 Stars, since at some point they had proposed it also among the possible names for the office of President of the Republic). He says, literally: Our Constitution must prevail over the Treaties, just as Germany and France have done, bearing in mind that our Constitutional Court has always stated that European norms that violate fundamental rights such as the right to work, health and the environment cannot enter our legal system. It goes on like this, with positions that we can define to all intents and purposes sovereign because it says: Sovereignty is essentially the power to lay down binding legal rules for all the people. At present, this power is reserved exclusively for national or federal states. This is what a President emeritus of the Constitutional Court tells us that so far, when we have stated that there is a supremacy of Community law over national law, we were in fact declaring something contrary to the legitimate interpretation of our Constitution. We are delighted that today there is this revolutionary vote of Parliament which once and for all establishes the sovereignty of Italian legislation over European legislation. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u237	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u238	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u239	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of amendment 1.7, which is very similar to paragraph 7 of the resolution which we tabled and which was not accepted by the Government because, rightly, it accepted that of the majority. Our point 7 called for the predominance of the provisions of our Constitution on Community law through a gradual but decisive recovery of sovereignty on the German model. We know that the German Constitutional Court has expressed itself in this sense, of course under their Constitution. The Italian Constitution is certainly no less worthy than the German Constitution, also because we can call it the Constitution, whereas Germany, for historical reasons, cannot call it exactly that, so we are in favour of this amendment. We believe that both must go ahead: we are in favour of the European Union but not as it is now; we are in favour of a strong change, to make it closer to the citizens, and we are of course in the first place for the defence of the Italian Constitution. Our journey to Europe must be absolutely in the wake, respecting and maintaining the sovereignty of the Italian Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u240	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u241	Senator Ferrari, do you want to speak out against my colleague Pittella? Mr Ferrari (PD). No, ma'am, on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I normally take the floor when I think I can do that. I simply wanted to ask for a quarter of an hour's suspension so that the Government, together with the majority forces, will consider with all the necessary attention this amendment because you are going to assume in the resolution to which you will vote in favour that accompanies the European law, the law that annually holds together...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u242	Senator Ferrari, you're not talking about the order of business. If you ask for a suspension, it is correct. [[Comments from FI-BP and FdI Groups]] The first signs coming from the Leaders are of opposition, so it seems to me that it is not possible to suspend.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u243	We have not put to the record that the government, in addition to giving opinions, used a lot of time also to justify its opinions in a somewhat abnormal way. I was explaining in a minute what was going on and, because of this, I was asking for a suspension so that the Government would really fully assess the scope and formal inconsistency of this act.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u244	Senator Ferrari, we are not talking about an amendment amending a law, but a part of a resolution that involves not only an intervention on ordinary legislation but also, in my opinion, an intervention on at least two articles of the Constitution because otherwise it would be a principle of intent that cannot be implemented immediately. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the FdI Group.]] I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senators Romeo and Patuanelli in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[v. Annex B. Comments by Senator Mirabelli]] . It is therefore foreclosed that motions for resolutions Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11,
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u245	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u246	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u247	Parent (PD). Mr President, unfortunately, while we were engaged in the debate on the measure, as it is our duty, a few kilometres from here, at km 39 of Salaria, there was a very serious accident in Borgo Quinzio, where two people lost their lives and seventeen were injured, due to a fire caused in a petrol station by a LPG tank. We have learned from the news that immediately the firefighters of Poggio Mirteto and Montelibretti and 118 came to the site. Unfortunately a second explosion occurred while rescuers were already there and, between the two dead, there is a firefighter. There are some really touching pictures of the firefighter truck. I think we need to express our condolences and hug our families. Above all, we must express our condolences to the National Firefighters Corps. I think all we have to do is bow down to the work that the fire department and the service they do to the country. I think that after such episodes and misfortunes the country should stop for a day. Certainly we cannot return the victims to life or to their families, but surely we should pay attention to the security conditions under which these servants of the State work. We crawl around the families, expressing our grief. [[Applause. The President and the Assembly stand and observe a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u248	Thanks to Senator Parent of the report. The Presidency supports the condolences expressed by the senator and is close to the pain of those who have suffered losses in the family, wishing for a prompt recovery of those who have been offended, even if injured. We must hope that certain things will not happen again; unfortunately, fate and fate also put their part in it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u249	The next item is the debate on draft law No 920. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator De Vecchis, whether he intends to supplement it. 18.26 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u250	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill under consideration, linked to the budget law for 2019, is an ambitious text and is a symbol of the Government's commitment to change to promote the profound change of our country. The aim is first of all to modernise our public administration deeply by restricting areas of unproductiveness when not of abuse and enhancing the many professional figures of our public administration. To this end, the text contains measures for improving the efficiency of public administrations and monitoring the observance of working time in the same administrations as well as for the remodulation of resources intended for the ancillary economic treatment of civil servants and those intended for new recruitment, with the determination for this purpose of simplified procedures. In addition, specific rules concern the problems posed by the resolution of certain agreements on the provision of food vouchers for civil servants. This is what I consider to be a genuine act of justice for employees of the public administration. More specifically, the draft law introduces into the law, in Article 1, the three-year plan of concrete actions for the efficiency of public administrations and establishes, in the Department of Public Service, the Core of concreteness, responsible for verifying the implementation of concrete actions - indicated in the same plan - for the improvement of the efficiency of public administrations. The three-year plan is prepared annually by the Department of Public Service and is issued by decree of the Minister for Public Administration, in agreement with that of the interior, prior agreement - for the part inherent to the territorial authorities, the regional instrumental bodies and the agencies and companies of the Regional Health Service - in the unified Conference State-Regions-Autonomous Provinces-Cities and local autonomous. The Plan concerns actions for the correct application of the provisions on the organisation and functioning of public administrations and for the compliance of administrative activity with the principles of impartiality and good performance; actions for the implementation of the efficiency of public administrations, with the indication of the times for the implementation of corrective actions; the procedures for carrying out the activities of the Core of concreteness vis-à-vis territorial authorities, regional instrumental bodies and regional health service bodies and companies. The Core of concreteness ensures the implementation of the measures provided for in the Three-Year Plan, through surveys and visits, aimed at detecting the state of implementation of the provisions by public administrations and the organizational and management modalities, with the possible indication of corrective measures. For national government and non-economic government agencies and public bodies, the Core shall also indicate the time limits within which such measures are to be implemented; the rewording made by the 11th The Commission made it clear, by amending paragraphs 3, 4 and 6 of Article 60-a, that the indication of time limits concerns only those administrations, on the understanding that the indication of corrective measures also applies to other administrations. Minutes of each inspection and visit shall be drawn up. The administration may, within three days thereafter, make observations and provide further documents. The minutes drawn up during inspections and visits to municipalities or other local authorities shall also be forwarded to the territorially competent prefect. Public administrations shall ensure timely communication to the Core of the practicality of the implementation of corrective measures. Failure to comply with the deadline for the implementation of corrective measures - by national state administrations and agencies and non-economic public bodies - takes over disciplinary and managerial responsibility and determines the registration of the defaulting public administration in a list published on the website of the Department of Civil Service. By 30 June each year, the same Department shall send a report on the results of the inspections and visits, reporting cases of non-compliance, the Minister for Public Administration, the Minister for the Interior and the Court of Auditors. It is also expected that the prefect may report to the Core any irregularities in the administrative action of the local authorities and request their intervention; in this case, he may participate in the inspections and visits of the prefecture-territorial office of the requesting Government. For the performance of the activities of the Nucleus, the Department of Public Service employs 53 staff units. The financial burdens arising from the establishment of the Core are quantified in approximately €4.15 million annually from 2019. Paragraph 2, inserted by the 11th Commission, is the result - I would like to emphasize - of a fruitful collaboration also with the opposition and specifies that the rules introduced by Article 1 apply, without new or increased burdens for public finance and with the use of human, financial and instrumental resources available to current legislation, to institutions and schools of every order and grade and to educational institutions, taking into account their organizational and functional specificities and respecting the organizational, educational, research and development autonomy recognized by the current provisions. Article 2 of the draft law provides for the introduction of biometric identity verification systems and video surveillance of access for employees of public administrations, in order to verify compliance with working time, and has a general principle on the performance of performance at the place of work by public administration managers. The introduction of these systems is expected to replace the automatic detection systems currently in use (paragraph 1); an amendment approved by the 11th Commission has specified that the systems refer to the accesses. They are excluded from the provision of new systems: staff under public law and employees holding an agile relationship (subordinated employment relationship which, according to the definition in Article 18 of Law No 81 of 22 May 2017, takes place without precise constraints of time or place, with performance in part within business premises and in part outside, without a fixed location). An amendment approved by the 11th In addition, the Commission introduced a reference to the principles of proportionality, non-excessiveness and graduality in the adoption of the new systems, which were recalled in particular during the hearing before the Commission by the Data Protection Supervisor. As regards the managers of the public administrations, paragraph 2 specifies that they adapt their performance at the place of work to the needs of the organization and the managerial task carried out, as well as those related to the proper management and the necessary coordination of human resources. An amendment approved by the 11th Commission has explained that the managers, for the purposes referred to in paragraph 2, are included in the scope of the new systems referred to in paragraph 1 above (subject to the aforementioned exclusion for the categories under public law). The definition of the modalities of the implementation of the substitution of automatic detection systems currently in use with those of biometric verification of identity and video surveillance is entrusted to a decree, of a regulatory nature, of the President of the Council of Ministers, on proposal of the Minister for Public Administration, prior agreement sanctioned in the Unified Conference State, Regions, autonomous provinces, cities and local autonomous, after opinion of the Guarantor for the protection of personal data on the modalities of processing of biometric data. For teaching and educational staff there is a separate regulation, issued by the Minister of Education, University and Research, in consultation with the Minister for Public Administration, after the opinion of the aforementioned Guarantor. In any case, compliance with European standards on biometric data processing, as set out in Article 9 of EU Regulation 2016/679, remains firm. When I come to the end of my speech, I would just like to say that it is time for this important measure to come, which also talks about turn-over and recruitment. This has not been the case for years. That is why I would like to thank Mr Bongiorno and, together with you, all the senators, particularly the President of the 11th Commission, for the excellent work we have done; a work that has been regularly carried out with enthusiasm and with the passion that distinguishes this Government of change, a Government that wants to aim to solve the problems of citizens, starting from the public administration. We have had the courage to do so, we will do so and we will continue with the Government of Change. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u251	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Parente.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u252	Mr President, the Commission's work ended yesterday, around one o'clock in the morning, without any suggestion being accepted among the main comments made by the parties heard in the Commission, starting with municipalities and regions; nor were amendments tabled by the Democratic Party Group, which partly accepted those comments. They were intended to introduce changes and adjustments in a measure in many parts confused, contradictory and above all, in our opinion, not respectful of the professionalism and administrative life of thousands of employees and public leaders. The draft law is not for us a tool for realising the concreteness of the actions, as Minister Bongiorno (whose presence in the Chamber I am very happy about) said. The core of concreteness has the task of implementing a three-year plan of concrete actions for the efficiency of public administrations. Here we see a first contradiction between the accompanying relationship, which uses a beautiful expression (the Core of concreteness must be of support) and the one that prescribes the bill, that is to guarantee the implementation, to make inspections, to send even the minutes to the prefect and even are established times when public administrations must adapt to corrective actions with a black list of administrations that do not do so. The Core has 53 personnel units. Perhaps, Minister Bongiorno, you had made a core in support of the public administration: we would have supported, supported and helped in its definition. This is not the case: you choose to add a new administrative meta-organ to existing meta-organs, without adding any innovative measures - I am addressing the rapporteur - other than the Government of Change! The new core will enter into a scenario that keeps the independent evaluation bodies intact, ending up resembling a duplication of the inspectorate (or in some respects the DAC), representing an overlap of bodies. Unfortunately, once again the tendency to add, multiply organisms, nuclei and commissions seems to prevail in a tangled system, the result of bulimia legislation and a strong and sterile propensity to newism, which fails to equip itself with the right positive incentives that are essential to achieving the objectives. This is inserted in a context characterized by normative stratification and interpretative unevenness, which results in the slowing down of administrative action, representing this further body a waste of public resources, as highlighted by the Conference of the Regions. We have proposed in the Commission at least a renewal, something new, that could be before the definition of the three-year plan a consultation of all workers and workers, the human resources on whose legs the concrete actions go. Only in this way, in our view, could we improve the efficiency and effectiveness of administrative action. Another amending proposal - perhaps the House accepted it, because it is very important to us - concerns the simplification of controls on territorial administrations. There was the hearing of the ANCI, of all the Italian Municipalities, which have listed all the control requirements that the Italian Municipalities have. This measure - as the rapporteur said earlier - has also been presented as an indispensable tool for unlocking the turnover since 2019. We are happy, it is important, but it is already an existing law: even if this legislation was approved by the end of the year, the release of turnover was already provided for by the current law, on the basis of a rule of the Renzi Government, Article 3 of Decree-Law 24 June 2014, n. 90. Moreover, the Senate Budget Service also states that the financial effects arising from the provisions under consideration fall within the sole scope of the effects already covered by the expenditure trends; therefore, this is already an existing forecast. Article 4 provides for recruitment for generational replacement. Well, this is very important, but it is a pity that this rule, in the haste with which you want to approve it, does not coordinate with a non-definition of the 100 quota yet and therefore we do not know what will be the exits from the public employment (it is assumed many) and therefore we will have to redo another norm. It is not enough to assume (this is the heart of our intention to try to improve this provision). The new organisational needs of human capital would require a large plan of training, retraining and updating of staff in service and also for access to selections there is a need to enhance internal employees. We have proposed an amendment that the 35 million earmarked for this measure should be devoted to this: to a major training plan. We must grow the culture of the value of public service, strengthen administrative culture, spirit of body, educate in the worship of the public dimension, integrity. Therefore, a strong, systematic and conscious investment on individual people at work is indispensable, which form bureaucracy and allow us to transform statements of principle into concrete facts, as you say. Public administration must set itself a strategic, challenging, high-profile and long-term objective, which requires qualified and correct officials. The public administration must have good officials, who act on the value of integrity in professional practice and should provide for staff selection processes based on competence and merit and ensure continuous training. In short, training aimed at the sense of belonging for all and, for managers, at the sense of the project is necessary. There is no record of this concern for the staff of the public administration in the measure under consideration. On the contrary, in Article 2, which is entitled "Measures for contrasting absenteeism," one prefers to control rather than motivate. The motivation, in my opinion, would be the only powerful antidote even against the dissatisfaction and frustration that cause absenteeism. In the accompanying report, even here without justification, we talk about the gravity and spread of absenteeism and introduce biometric verification systems and video surveillance systems, in place of those of automatic detection already present. We believe that this is a wrong intervention, based on the assumption that millions of workers and workers - more than three million - employed throughout the national territory, from small municipalities to large, from schools to ministries, are potentially idlers. With an amendment approved yesterday by the majority, even managers, whose professional activity is bound to the result and objective, will be included in the surveillance measures. It has not been enough and it has not served any purpose even the warning of the Data Protection Supervisor, who invited and incited us legislators to respect the criterion of proportionality, in compliance with European legislation and our Constitution. This is a principle that should also be accompanied by common sense: I wonder how we can decide to use these resources in this way, which will not be enough, because EUR 35 million for all public offices will not be enough. But, even if that were enough, how do you think that you have to introduce these double controls - video surveillance and digital control or with the iris - which are invasive systems of our delicate personal identity? In conclusion, Minister, you are a woman of law. At this point, since we have increased the audience of those who have to be checked, why do we exclude from the time check the contracted staff under public law? The distance between social and working classes cannot be increased even more. We could tolerate it when there was a badge, but we cannot continue with this disparity, if we enter a biometric system, which intervenes so heavily on personal data and identity. I think that this is not a good measure, especially because of the lack of involvement of the people who serve in the public administration. Minister, you are in charge of all this, at this time of republican history and the staff of the public administration is the most valuable asset we have. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Floris]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u253	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Toffanin.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u254	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the work of this House today is devoted to an important and long-awaited subject, but precisely because of its complexity and importance it would have required more detailed work from the Commission and Parliament. On the other hand, on this occasion too, the work of the opposition has been made superfluous and there is a clear feeling that it wants to go in the direction of debasement and annihilation of democracy, given the way in which all the measures have been voted on so far. It is a desire then to seek to effectively distort this bill dedicated to the work of the public administration - I repeat, public administration - in just over a week's time. It is a measure that - I remember - concerns the unblocking of the turnover of recruitment, the obligation to implement video surveillance tools and biometrics, as well as the unblocking of ancillary wages, and still the reimbursement of food vouchers to public employees of the failed publishing company Qui Ticket, but also - I quote last, but it is the main point of all the measure - the establishment of a control core for public administration. The article of the draft law in question is therefore extrinsic in a heterogeneous set of provisions, moreover applicable only to a limited part of the vast complex of public administration, regardless of the different contexts. We cannot see an organic vision, which would also be necessary since it was designed as the first piece of a broader reform plan for the whole public administration. Before we talk about recruitment, Minister, perhaps we should define the reorganization of work, simplification, deburocratization, from which we can then understand the skills and resources necessary for its implementation. Here, however, we go backwards: we start from the roof and then reach, perhaps, the foundations. Minister, you yourself, after producing this bill, announced the next one that concerns the simplification of public administration. But maybe it would have been logical to do exactly the opposite, and now maybe we'll talk about it and prove it too. Article 1 provides for the establishment of a three-year plan of concrete actions for the efficiency of the public administration, prepared annually for the part relating to the actions to be carried out in the regions, instrumental bodies and local authorities. This article concerns the establishment of a so-called concrete core that the Government wants to make pass as a tutor, that is, an instrument that helps and accompanies public administrations in difficulty, but in reality it is clear from the text of the law that it is a tool of control and supervision. So much so that the Court of Auditors has highlighted the possibility of areas of overlapping activities between the newly established Core and other existing bodies. I simply recall the FISIP, at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance, the Inspection of the Department of Civil Service, the regional sections of the Court of Auditors, the Committee on the Financial Stability of Local Authorities at the Ministry of the Interior and let us not forget those represented by municipal and provincial secretaries, then internal control bodies. The Secretary, in his reply, totally denied this function as a controller, but did not justify its reason. Then I would like to mention the text of the article, because it makes it clear that the Nucleus is carrying out surveys and visits aimed at detecting the state of implementation of the provisions by the public administration, as well as the way in which the administrative activity is organised and managed. Moreover, every inspection is prepared by the minutes, including the indication of any corrective measures and the time limit within which they are to be implemented. Then there's the cherry on the cake. These minutes, carried out in municipalities or other local authorities, are also transmitted to the competent prefect. So if this isn't a control organ, we don't know what to think. And what's worse is that you give control over public administrations to prefectures. I remind the Movimento 5 Star Group that the prefectures are issued by the Ministry of the Interior, just to understand us and in fact shows the will of the Government to entrust these powers and power to the central State. Well, that's just autonomy. And I ask the Legist friends if, after this measure, they can still afford to say that autonomy will be realized, but that for now it is in the drawer of the 5 Stars. Minister Bongiorno is a Legist. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Then to perform these checks and be a navigator (we adapt to the terms of this Government of Change), the Core provides a staff of 53 people, of which 23 recruited also among the staff of other public administrations and 30 following public competition. We wonder how 53 people can follow 10,000 and beyond public administrations. This is really yet another wheelchair that comes to be created. And since this was the Government of Change, it changes by creating another wheelchair. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Then you have to explain to us how they will do these checks, since an amendment has arrived that prevents us from drawing on public finance resources for inspection expenses. There are countless paradoxes in this bill. Article 2 provides for the fight against absenteeism in public administration, which is an absolutely acceptable objective. Unfortunately, the phenomenon continues to be very topical, but fortunately the number of idlers compared to those who work honestly remains a minority, even if it damages not only the entire category, but also the image of the country. There is no doubt that this phenomenon must be tackled. Forza Italia - I remember - has already shown first that it wants to do so, through the introduction, among other things, of the criminal penalty for false evidence of illness. This bill provides for tools such as video surveillance and biometric detection to verify the actual presence in the workplace of staff, imposing both devices, without taking into account the principle of proportionality. The employees of agile work are exempt, the cases referred to in Article 18, of which the rapporteur has already spoken, and also those administrations that make use of the NoiPA portal, which must avail themselves of the services of recording attendance provided by the system itself. Also the other administrations (you do not understand who you refer to), that they cannot take advantage of the resources of the public finance, eventually they can avail of the portal NoiPA. So what are we talking about? Are there or aren't there resources for everyone? At the same time, biometric detection and video surveillance systems are required, and the devices already in place in public administrations are dismantled, providing that local authorities must do so with their own resources and in any case without exceeding the fund made available, which is already considered insufficient by the Court of Auditors: it seems to us that we simply want to make propaganda and create a great burden for public administrations. The unblocking of the turnover is absolutely acceptable, but not before the reorganization of the system, as clearly announced by Minister Bongiorno in the Joint Commissions. I was truly grounded in the fact that recruitment was first undertaken and then simplified. It should be exactly the opposite, because first we have to check the resources and skills needed and then we have to unblock recruitment. This is a way of proceeding which seems to us to give the signal that we know how to discern what the priorities are. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite you to conclude, Senator Toffanin. Toffanin, minority rapporteur. Just a few words to say, on Article 5, that with the fund made available and the surety excused by Consip on the failed publishing company, which has left in the hands of many civil servants a lot of food vouchers by now rag paper, it has been arranged to refund good meals to public employees. However, nothing has been done for the public establishments that provided the material, prepared the meals, paid the staff, VAT and operating costs. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Laus]] They broke up there. The Undersecretary simply said that they can insinuate themselves to the liabilities of the company's failure. Undersecretary, I'm sorry, but that means not taking anything. You cannot always turn your head to small businesses and our companies that give jobs and that are our structure. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] You said so in response. We regret that, even for such a measure, it has not been possible to make at least a few changes, a sign of the ability to listen to the voice of the people we represent - I am not talking about the voice of us senators - and a democratic dialogue that we will never stop looking for in this House. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u255	I communicate that a number of questions have been referred for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Malan to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u256	Mr President, I will not extend because the reasons for our request not to proceed with the examination of this measure have been explained to you by the minority rapporteur, Senator Toffanin, and it has done so very well. I therefore refer to what you have said regarding the arguments. We appreciate the presence of Minister Bongiorno, to whom I would like to say that I am sure that his intentions shown in the public statements, which we have in important parts shared, are much better than this measure. There must be no rush to present something at all costs within the year. We, especially for the reality of things, can have the patience to wait a month or two to have a better measure that has a more comprehensive view of public administration, a sector that is very important for our country. There are certainly clever people who try to circumvent the material and moral obligations that they have to work for those who pay their salary, that is for Italian citizens, but above all there are many professionalisms to be valued and put in a position to work better. We frankly believe that this cannot be done with a Core which, although it has the beautiful name of 'interventions for concreteness', does not seem very able to affect positively while it overlaps with many other organisms. I therefore believe that workers in the public administration should be able to do their job well and do it more effectively. Less control should be done, but more effectively and not only formally. We care little if they stay until the last minute in the office; the important thing is what they do in the hours they are in the office. These are the things we should do. We should see if the work they do is not useless; if they have to spend more time responding to continuous reporting and reporting obligations to explain that they are not there to steal or to get corrupted and to draft all anti-mafia and anti-corruption relations and then maybe work for the good of the citizens in any remaining minutes. We believe that professionalism must be exploited and monitored in order to avoid abuse, but that we need an organic measure, which we do not see in the text when we examine it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u257	He asked Senator Patriarch to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u258	Mr President, Minister Bongiorno, the sequence of baptized measures continues - I say this with great respect - with rather demanding words, but which have nothing to do with the content of the text: 'concreteness' today; 'dignity' and'security' in recent months. These are slogan measures that do not change anything and, indeed, cause complications and damage to the country. The decree-law dignity has triggered precariousness and unemployment. Minister, Istat data confirms that. The security decree-law will increase the number of irregulars and will produce more insecurity on our territories and this reasoning also applies to the draft law concreteness. Mr. Minister, we've been following you over the last few months, and we've noticed that you've made some pretty challenging announcements, I'd say roboating: 450,000 new hirings, turnovers, attention to young people, contrast to precariousness. In fact, as Mrs Parente pointed out, nothing changes compared to the current legislation, it should be acknowledged. None of the new recruitments in the public employment in 2019 can be determined by virtue of the draft law concreteness; the total unblocking of the turnover is already foreseen by the current law, based on a rule of the Renzi Government, with effect even from 2018. I say with a bit of irony and with great clarity that the two innovative standards, namely the Core of concreteness and the introduction of biometric identity verification systems and video surveillance tools, propose in filigree (but it is quite obvious) a centralised project, authoritarian (let me say this term, Minister), a disturbing return to forms of state neocentralism. More than anything, however, we deny the principle of reality, that principle which is the basis of any political action, which helps us to say what are the right and good things to do. The country, in fact, must be known, just as public administration must be known before intervening on this complex body, made by 20,000 bodies and 3 million employees, otherwise you really risk to mess up, or not to produce anything. I was talking about the principle of reality and I am going to quote your text with reference to the Core of concreteness, which is entrusted with unlikely tasks, which I can only read to say how far we are from this principle of reality. It is said that the Core of concreteness ensures the concrete realization of the three-year plan (evokes the five-year plans of the old season, those of the Soviet Union), carries out surveys and inspection visits, intervenes on the modalities of organization and management of the administrative activity; proposes corrective measures, writes minutes and asks for feedback within three days to the public administrations inspected (three days). This is an unlikely core, Minister. We are talking about 53 people who should be doing this. Among other things, this body risks overlapping with the Public Service Inspectorate and this is also deduced from your text: in fact declared between the lines that there is an overlap, except then pretend not to see it. The body is not even immediately operational because in your text it is stated that the three-year plan to which the concreteness is entrusted will be activated only by a decree of the Minister for Public Administration. I come to the conclusion that we had actually proposed another project. Law No. 124 of 2015 indicated other words, used another vocabulary; I allow myself to read it again to say that there was a vision, a perspective, an idea of change. I read the titles to say about the difference, the distance between what you wrote and what this law proposes and on which you could work together. The change also foresees this, the country is changed like this: to assume what has been done, trying to improve it. We were talking about criteria of reward, merit, processes of deburocratization, measurement of individual and organizational performance, digitalization, proximity to citizens, responsibility for executives, competitions, stabilisation and the fight against absenteeism. This was the perspective on which we have worked and which you do not persecute or even try to do with the bill in question, hasty and badly written. We had asked that it should be discussed together in the Commission more calmly, but we were told that it should be examined soon, and so we reiterate our opposition to the draft law under consideration, which remains central and authoritarian. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u259	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u260	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u261	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u262	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on the need to give full efficiency and effectiveness to the public administration, of course starting with the conferences, we all agree, as we agree in pursuing and striking forms of absenteeism that are also within the public administration. Having said that, in the measure under consideration, it almost seems, however, that we want to ignore the real problems of public administration and that is why we support the questions referred for a preliminary ruling. The first problem of public administration is motivation. In recent years we have built a climate of such great distrust towards the public administration that its operators no longer find correspondence with their functions. From this point of view, the measure goes exactly in the opposite direction to the needs. Moreover, it has been discussed, as we are now accustomed to doing, without leaving any real time for debate to address, discuss, verify and understand almost the problems we are discussing. No, everything was done very quickly. There is one thing that I am interested to stress, and this is a substantial aspect that has also been highlighted by minority speakers and in the previous speeches. The Core of concreteness is something absolutely abstract that is superimposed on so many other control instruments and can only be ineffective. Above all - I say this to my colleagues and those who care about autonomy - it is expected that this core will also be controlled and intervene at levels - from local authorities, regions and the National Health Service - which have full organizational autonomy. You are always talking about Article 116 of the Constitution, but the two are not together because they are in clear contradiction. Then there is the intervention of the prefects. I have never agreed, but I remember that the oldest party present in the present Parliamentary Assembly was thinking a few years ago about the abolition of prefects. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Now we are at the arrival of the prefects in the functions of politics and administrators. It's the most complete confusion. If we want to work on the efficiency of public administration - we all know that there is so much need - we must have the humility not to think that with a rule we can solve the problem and that we must start from the bottom, from the real problems. I read that an amendment is intended to be tabled for a single design core. No, a plan must be made to have engineers and architects employed in the municipalities to design and it is necessary to assume those who hold the position of sole head of the procedure (RUP) and is responsible for the management of the works. These are the reasons for blocking investment. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]] Instead of chatting and propaganda, we are now in the headlines: "Legge concretezza", "Decreeto sicurezza" (the security one we already see in these days the problems it is creating), "Decreeto dignità". All great titles, however, the practice will go exactly in the opposite direction. I'd like to understand how this Core can get into a hospital and explain how to rearrange it! These are things that don't exist and you know it too! That is why we shall be voting in favour of these questions for a preliminary ruling! [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u263	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred for a preliminary ruling, with several reasons, by Senator Bernini and other senators (QP1) and Senator Marcucci and other senators (QP2). (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u264	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u265	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u266	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. Having received confirmation from the Offices that, inevitably, the dossier of amendments cannot be physically settled and, therefore, distributed to the Groups this evening, but only in the morning, I would ask you to agree to conclude here this evening, postponing all the speeches in general debate until tomorrow morning. This will allow time for all the groups, once the dossiers have been recovered, to be able to assess them and, therefore, to arrive at the stage of evaluation of the various amendments. I therefore propose that the other groups should now close their work, especially in order to be able to work better than last week on the tax decree.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u267	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u268	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u269	FLORIS (FI-BP). Mr President, I think I must support what Senator Ferrari has requested on behalf of the PD Group and I hope that I can do so on behalf of the Forza Italia Group. I must point out, however, that this practice has now been invalidated by the discussion of this draft law. The same thing happened in the Commission. We did not have opinions on the amendments of the other Commissions and we worked quickly and badly in this respect. Above all, we have not even been taken into account because of the scope of the amendments. At this moment, however, even for those who have to intervene, it is correct to have all the cards available before you can do your intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u270	As there are no comments, this remains the case. Following the examination of the draft law in title is postponed to another session.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u271	I'm asking to talk. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u272	Colleagues, if you are not interested, please leave the House in a not too noisy way.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u273	You have the floor, Senator Lonardo. LONARDO (FI-BP). Mr President, I take the floor because I would like to convey to Mr Grillo my strong and clear voice for a heartfelt appeal. I have asked you questions several times, and I have never, I have never said, received a word of reply. It will be the result of the change that this Government preaches. I would like to ask: but would change not listen to citizens through the voice of those who represent them here in the institutions? I can't explain it anymore. The first question, the 4-00022, addressed to the Minister - heard, heard - dates back to April 11, 2018, a few days after the inauguration of this Senate. The second question, the 4-00199, dates back to 5 June, the third question, the 3-00179, dates back to 7 August and the fourth, the 4-00821 to 7 November. All questions concern the very serious health situation in the province of Benevento. I asked for the help and intervention of the Minister because the entire community of Sant'Agata dei Goti in the province of Benevento was deprived of a First Aid and not only. The citizens have risen and some committees have been set up which have interacted with all the political forces of the territory - and I stress all the political forces - to defend what had been taken from them. The whole protest led the President of the Regional Council of Campania, Vincenzo De Luca, to take a step back and ask the Minister of Health to set up a garrison in Sant'Agata dei Goti, a First Aid in derogation as a troubled area, only that this commissioner's decree, No. 87 of 5 November 2018, had meant that President De Luca, the day before the request to the Minister, approved a new regional plan of planning of the hospital network pursuant to Ministerial Decree No. 70 of 2015, leaving the hospital of Sant'Agata dei Goti without First Aid and the hospital of Benevento with 66 places less. Even more so, today everything depends on the Minister. I hope that you will listen to the voice of this territory and - why not - you will also realize the situation of the civil hospital in Benevento, a hospital that is reducing itself to light, where there are so many difficulties. I also asked the Minister for other things, but I reserve the right to do another speech tomorrow at the end of the sitting. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u274	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u275	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u276	MODENA (FI-BP). Mr President, I am speaking briefly because I do not think we will have many occasions in this House - and I therefore take advantage of the speeches at the end of the sitting - to make an assessment of the relationship between the business world and the government and the results that are being achieved. So I take my cue, through this intervention at the end of the session, to remind you that today the data of Federmeccanica and Assolavoro relative to the jobs lost following the approval of the so-called decree dignity have come out. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] While we are faced with the problem of the continuous discussions that the Government decides to make towards the industrialists or, in any case, of categories, we do not question instead about the really clear and clear damage that has been done to the productive fabric with a manifest decree, made only for communicative reasons. Those who are interested should therefore remember - because we will have to remember it for a long time - that 50% of the companies, according to Federmeccanica, do not find the profiles they seek to find employed, 30% will not proceed to the renewal of the contracts, not of the companies, but of the workers. This number has been calculated today, from Assolavoro news, in 53,000 people, as a prudential estimate. At this point I think that, beyond coffee, jokes and clashes with the categories, perhaps it would be time, after six months, for the majority to start thinking a little about what it is causing in the country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u277	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u278	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u279	FANTETTI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take this opportunity to point out that about five months ago a motion was tabled for the Committee on Italian Affairs to be re-established abroad, signed by myself and the elected members of the foreign constituency in this branch of Parliament and by about 80 Members of Parliament, and then a quarter of this House. At the moment, however, we do not yet have any developments. It is very important that this XVIII legislature also honours with Italians abroad the commitment to devote attention to this specific subject in a specific committee, which now covers 10% of the Italian population. About 5 and a half million fellow citizens are officially enrolled in the Anagraphe of Italians living abroad (AIRE), although in reality there are many more. It is not a matter of small interest, but it concerns all of us and that we abroad verify that we are somewhat subject to the Italian debate, where instead the Italian communities abroad look with extreme interest to institutional developments and would like to have in the Committee for the issues of Italians abroad a constant reference. It has already been done in the last four legislatures. We urge the bodies responsible for approving this motion to be active and ready, remembering that, among other things, it will not of course concern only those elected abroad, but all those who will be interested in participating in its work. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u280	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u281	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u282	CASTIELLO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the meaning of my brief speech is to highlight the extreme problematic nature of the latest data on economic and demographic dynamics, particularly with regard to the Mezzogiorno. They are, in some ways, catastrophic data. Over the past fifteen years we have had the loss of one million inhabitants and 200,000 graduates; according to OECD indicators this loss in financial terms has meant EUR 34 billion. So the Mezzogiorno has been in the paradoxical situation of losing the best of human capital and huge financial resources. It happened, in particular, that during the period of the long recession 2008-2015, when more the Mezzogiorno, as a weak area, would need injections of liquidity, the Berlusconi-Tremonti Government abandoned the so-called quota 34, which reduced to 27. According to the calculations of a qualified observatory, such as Svimez, this has caused the doubling of the unemployed in the Mezzogiorno; we would have had 250,000 more if 34 had been kept; instead, we had 500,000, double. Today in the Mezzogiorno - not only but especially in the Mezzogiorno - the majority of families in absolute poverty (5 million) and most families in relative poverty (10 million) are concentrated. In the next forty years, according to the demographic projections of Istat, if this trend is not radically reversed, the Mezzogiorno will lose another 5 or 6 million inhabitants. Mr President, we are about to launch a major international event and we will be in the spotlight all over the world: Matera European Capital of Culture 2019. Well, Matera is the only provincial capital without railway connections: we will certainly not offer a beautiful image. I conclude by saying that the southern issue is a major social issue, which deserves to be recentralised in the political debate. I recall the warning of two great Presidents of the Republic, Sandro Pertini and Carlo Azeglio Ciampi: the southern issue is not a territorial issue, but is the largest and most important of national issues. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u283	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u284	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u285	DRAGO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the weekend just spent in Catania was a sad one. I want to tell you briefly about the event, to arrive at a conclusion and a positive proposal, starting from the tragic experience of a 16-year-old boy, almost seventeen, of a scientific high school in Catania, the "Prince Umberto". The boy's name was Raffaele Barresi and died during his teaching activity due to a sudden cardiac arrest. As usual, the press speculated on the presence or not of the defibrillator at school, on its functioning, on the prompt intervention by the 118 (which, among other things, was timely), on the presence of the prosecutor and a team of carabinieri. I would like to highlight, meanwhile, the composure of the children the next day, which struck me deeply: at school, in religious silence, these boys, in procession, approached the counter of their companion laying a rose, with the sister next, destroyed, as you can imagine. I also knew the family, and, as I said in the premise, I thought that every painful experience can perhaps bring in itself a fruit of good (this is hope). The proposal, therefore, is not to leave to the discretion of the school manager the choice to equip himself with a defibrillator in a school, in a complex, in an associated seat or in a branch, but to establish it from a regulatory point of view. I wish Raffaele's memory wouldn't get lost in nothing. I would like to pray with you for him, for his soul, for his family and for all the young people who within the schools (as our Minister also said) must be safe. The Minister said that, on these occasions, the first place where our children must feel safe and where the institutions have a duty to ensure first aid measures is precisely the school. [[Applause]] I do not know whether it is appropriate - I leave it to you, Mr President - to devote a minute of reflection and silence precisely for the death of Raffaele Barresi.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u286	Yes, absolutely, there is no problem; the subject has also been dealt with on other occasions. I call on the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The President and the Assembly stand and observe a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u287	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u288	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u289	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to express my satisfaction at the meeting between the President of Palestine Abu Mazen and the President of the Count Council. A meeting that is already a recognition of the existence of the Palestinian State, despite today, unfortunately, many people would like it not to be so. A meeting not easy, in this particular historical moment, that testifies to the proximity of our country to a martyred area of the Middle East like Palestine, for decades under military occupation. We would not be talking about Palestine if it were not for the courage of a people who, since the end of the Second World War, struggle for freedom, struggle to become a state, despite almost seventy years of military occupation, started with Nakba, or the expulsion of tens of thousands of Palestinians from today's State of Israel. Since then, a Calvary has begun for both peoples, but they are experiencing an asymmetrical conflict, in which the Palestinians pay a high price in terms of human lives. A spiral that must be stopped, starting from the repression of the Palestinians in every aspect of social and private life, which forces millions of people into two huge open-air prisons, called Gaza and West Bank. This, of course, does not justify in any way actions of repercussions affecting Israeli civilians, which must be condemned. But here the problem is just asymmetry: on the one hand there are handicraft rockets and slingshots with which stones are thrown, on the other warplanes and tanks of the last generation. There are Israeli colonies and checkpoints within Palestinian territory, discriminatory policies on the management of fundamental resources such as water, the appropriation of oil fields at Palestinian sea, the demolition of thousands of Palestinian homes in Palestinian territory, the uprooting of olive trees and so on. In the last seventeen years, 2,022 Palestinian children have been murdered by the Israeli army. These brutal answers cannot bring peace, but they only feed hatred and violence. The Israeli and Palestinian people have the right to live in peace, but both must free themselves of extremism, starting from Zionism, which is the origin of so much suffering and injustice. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In conclusion, the solution of two peoples in two states capable of co-existing is the right and concrete way to bring peace to the whole of the Middle East. I want to continue to hope that in the near future what has happened between Eritrea and Ethiopia will also happen between Israel and Palestine, and I also hope that, thanks to the change taking place in Italy, we will be able to contribute to this historic objective. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u290	Senator Ferrara, this Assembly has expressed itself several times, with concern, on the theme of peace in the Middle East, a topic that certainly deserves greater depth and seriousness than those allowed by the speeches at the end of the session.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u291	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u292	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u293	BITI (PD). Mr President, I only speak for a few minutes, but I hope that all my colleagues and colleagues in this House will be involved. It seemed to me to remember today, in this House, that Nelson Mandela disappeared five years ago. It is a figure known by all, here, for its history and for its non-violent campaign of civil disobedience against the discriminatory laws of its country, South Africa. He is known for his continued commitment to rights, equality, justice, for which 27 years have been spent in prison, in hard prison. When he left, he became president of that country and never stopped, not even for a day, fighting and working with the same determination, the same strength and the same non-violent style for the rights he has always defended in his life. I speak because Florence has a special relationship, President and colleagues, with Mandela. In 1985, when Madiba was still in prison, the City Council then decided to give him the honorary citizenship, which was handed over to him 20 years later, when our city councilman, Tea Albini, went to give it to him in person, because he had never been able to come to our country. Since then, the relationship with the city has never ceased, but has intensified. We have a sports hall that doesn't bear the name of a sponsor (and we are very proud of that), but it bears the name Nelson Mandela, Nelson Mandela Forum. In 2012 the mayor of that time Matteo Renzi decided to honor Nelson Mandela with one of the most important awards for Florence, the golden florin, which went to deliver to Nelson Mandela, now sick, but with his head always present and who has always felt to belong to Florence. This report is not yet finished: today a large mural has been inaugurated on a house of public housing, a beautiful smiling face of Madiba that reminds its city, our Florence, the pearl of the world, the city of hospitality, integration, peace and tolerance, what are the values that Nelson Mandela brought into the world, that lost it five years ago and all of us, with him, have lost a lot. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u294	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u295	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u296	BACTISTONI (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members who have remained here. I have waited correctly for the end of the session, also to have a more complete picture of the situation and I would like to focus on the serious success this afternoon around 15 o'clock on Salaria, in the province of Rieti, near the town of Borgo Quinzio and near Passo Corese, where a LPG tank exploded, causing unfortunately two victims. The serious thing is that the first explosion followed a second one, which saw already involved the firemen who had rushed to the site to try to quell the flames and, as soon as there were also rescuers of 118, several of these rescuers were unfortunately injured. The budget, which is still temporary, is of two victims and seventeen wounded. I wish to express my total closeness to the civilians, to the firefighters (just yesterday the feast of their patron saint) and of course to the rescuers of 118 who, as always with timeliness, came and put their lives at risk. [[Applause from the FI-BP and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u297	Senator Battistoni, during the sitting the Senator Parente spoke on this topic and the Assembly, here, renews the closeness and condolences for the two victims and for the wounded.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u298	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-67.ana.u299	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday, December 6, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.43.
