ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-1.ana.u1	The sitting is open (10.32 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-1.ana.u2	[[He stands up.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, my most cordial greetings and best wishes to all of you who sit in this House, with special, affectionate attention to those who enter it for the first time; to all of you who sit here, thanks to the consensus and trust of the electoral citizens, whatever the political force each one has been called to represent. This 18th legislature is born of a wide and passionate electoral participation and our reference point can therefore be today only the expressions of the popular will that have clearly resulted. The vote of 4 March reflected a strong change in the relationship between Italians and politics, which had been characterized by not a few years. It was a vote that not only overwhelmed certainties and expectations of long-established political forces in the country's institutional and government structure. It questioned traditions, visions and sensibilities that had long prevailed. The voters have extraordinarily rewarded the political formations that have expressed the positions of most radical protest, of real breakup compared to the past. The protest resulted from strong social reasons: inequalities, injustices, impoverishment and backwardness in the condition of vast classes including families of the people and the middle class. In a particular way, it weighed the sense of a chronic, intolerable imbalance between North and South, such as to generate a rampant rebellion in the southern regions, as expressed in the vote. They have been condemned en bloc, also for the too many examples given by them of clientelism and corruption, the ruling circles and groups have long been weary rulers in those Regions. These reactions showed how little he had convinced the self-exaltation of the achievements of governments and majority parties in recent years. In general political terms, it has counted a lot in the electoral choices that citizens have heard the old parties, the traditional parties, far away and closed compared to the suffering personal events of many and widespread feelings of insecurity and alarm. All this must be linked to the time we are living: it is the time of globalization, instability and the general crisis of politics in the countries of the West; it is the time of incessant, shocking changes in world balances; changes increasingly difficult to master. From here, the anxiety that is rampant among the Italians. On the national political scene, the vote of 4 March resulted in a clear watershed to the clear advantage of the movements and coalitions that have made a resounding leap forward in the consent of the voters and that therefore, in fact, are today candidates to govern the country. At the same time, the party that had led three executives in the last legislature suffered a drastic defeat and was rejected to the opposition. However, difficulties arise from the fact that none of the forces awarded by the electorate has won the absolute majority of the seats in the two Chambers. However, it is necessary to correspond to the choices of the electoral corps and to outline the way for the country's near future. Some elements may contribute to broadening the horizon. It is essentially a question of relying on the general interest of Italy. It is based primarily on the sense, which must not be lacking, of a common Italian and European destiny. As far as this too is concerned, nothing can be said to be irreversible or obvious. Indeed, for a large part of the voters, Europe has appeared more like a set of constraints than a set of ideals and opportunities. It has appeared to be marked by divisions and uncertainties in the face of the wave of asylum seekers and the issue of immigration, but all this does not mean that Europe remains the only anchor for an Italy that wants to count in the global world. With the European institutions, the new Italian government and opposition forces will have to discuss and assert their proposals on the guidelines to follow, already shortly in Europe. But within the essential framework of legal relations and international interests that no one can think of starting from scratch, also because European integration must be conquered that in our deepest feelings belong to us and that none of us can, lightly, let them dissolve. Conquests of peace, economic development and social quality, civil rights; achievements today unfortunately exposed to extreme risks, not excluding the same basic conquest of peace. To deal with these unknowns and complexities is undoubtedly the general interest of Italy, which can be shared by those who represent Italy in the new Parliament, even though they represent Italy from opposite sides. I would add that, in the further development of the institutional political confrontation on the basis of the vote of 4 March, the common good to guarantee the country - whoever is called to govern - is non-violence. Violence must be avoided in all its motivations and forms. We know where they can lead the spirals of violence. Let's not forget the '70s. We have just remembered the anniversary of the massacre of Via Fani and therefore of the kidnapping and tormenting imprisonment of Aldo Moro, until his barbaric killing. We are left with and dear to us the precious legacy of his self-critical reflection, of his message of freedom and dialogue. Political confrontation must also be freed from any nostalgia or indulgence towards the regime of violence that has dominated Italy for twenty years with fascism. Finally, it is worthwhile and important that the forces ready to govern the country on the basis of the consent of the voters have declared that they want to assume their responsibilities, in the sense of avoiding any destructive drift for the country. Certainly in order to open, in the current scenario, new perspectives to the country are essential together respect for the popular will and respect for the prerogatives of the President of the Republic to which I address, on behalf of you all, the warm expression of our esteem and trust. [[General applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, the subject of making our democracy more participatory and efficient through all the channels of reform that we can go through is the subject of this parliamentary term. The first reform that has been achieved is that of the Rules of Procedure of our own Senate, because ours, we cannot forget, is a representative democracy in its ideal and functional foundations, which corresponds to a parliamentary form of government. This was, and remains, the meditated choice of the constituent assembly. Our duty is to strengthen that choice that has no sustainable alternative. In the ideal wake of the Republican Constitution, dear senators and senators, any evolution and transformation called for by the wider expression of the popular will can be put to the test. Thank you for your attention. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-1.ana.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I read a few of the communications we have received which are of interest to this House. The President of the Republic, by decree dated 19 January 2018, appointed, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 59 of the Constitution, Senator of Life Liliana Segre for having illustrated the Homeland with very high merits in the social field. [[Generals prolonged applause. The Assembly stands]] Your applause spares me - but I also add - the warm and respectful greeting of welcome that I address to our new colleague.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-1.ana.u4	By letter dated 8 March, Dr. Giorgio Lattanzi communicated, pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 87 of 11 March 1953, his election as President of the Constitutional Court. On behalf of all the senators, I wish the new President every success. [[Applause.]] The President of the Republic, by letter dated 24 February 2018, informed that, by decree on the same date, he appointed Professor Francesco Viganò as judge of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-1.ana.u5	The next item is the Constitution of the Provisional Bureau. Pursuant to article 2, paragraph 2, of the Regulation, I invite the senators Laforgia, Pirovano, Rampi, Borghesi, Lupo and Di Micco, who are the youngest - great value - senators present in the Chamber ( [[Applause]] ), to take a seat at the Presidency's desk in order to exercise the functions of temporary Secretaries. (The Senators Provisional Secretaries take their seats at the bench of the Presidency). Youth has been found de visu.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-1.ana.u6	The second item on the agenda is: "Constitution of the Provisional Board for the Verification of Powers and Proclamation of Senators." The Provisional Council has the task of carrying out investigations concerning the proclamation to senator of candidates who take over from the elected senators in several electoral colleges. Pursuant to Article 3, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure, the Provisional Board is constituted by the senators members of the Junta of the Senate elections of the Republic of the previous legislature that are present at the session, in number not less than seven. I therefore invite Senators Alberti Casellati, Buccarella, Caliendo, Crimi, Cucca, Giarrusso, Ginetti, Malan, Stefani and Stefano to meet immediately in the adjacent Pannini room. I am suspending the sitting, which will resume as soon as the interim Council has completed its work. (The sitting was suspended at 10.48 a.m. and resumed at 12.41 a.m.) The session is resumed. I inform you that the Interim Board for the Verification of Credentials has completed its work. I therefore call on the interim Senator Secretary to read the incoming candidates.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-1.ana.u7	I inform you that the provisional Junta for the verification of powers has taken note, on the basis of the proclamations received from the regional electoral offices, of the election of some senators in several Regions and - for the substitutions to be provided in the seats rendered as a result vacant, pursuant to Article 19 of the electoral law for the Senate - found that in the Regions the following candidates are first of the non-elected: in the Campania Region: for the list "Senator Maria Romani," Valeria Valente, in place of Senator Matteo Renzi; in the Emilia-Romagna Region: for the list "Forza Italia", Enrico Aimi, in place of Senator Paolo Romani; for the list "Partito democratico," Paola Boldrini, in place of Senator Valeria Fedeli; in the Friuli-Venice Region, the list "Banna Bonfrisco" for the list "Partito democratico", for the list "Sencotianco", "Matjana Rojc," replacing Senator Tommas Cerno; in the Region: for the, for the list, for the, for the list, for the list "Lombardiana, for the list "Lombardy, for the list "Lombards." Simone Pillon, in place of Matteo Salvini; Massimiliano Romeo, in place of Senator Giulia Bongiorno; for the list "Democratic Party," Alan Ferrari, in place of Senator Valeria Fedeli; in the Piedmont Region: for the list "Fratelli d'Italia" with Giorgia Meloni, Giovanbattista Fazzolari, in place of Senator Daniela Garnero Santanchè; for the list "Lega", Giorgio Maria Bergesio, in place of Senator Simona Pergreffi; Cesare Pianasso, replacing Senator Giulia Bongiorno; in the Puglia Region: for the list "Forza Italia", Anna Carmela Minuto, replacing Senator Licia Ronzulli; in the Tuscan Region: for the list "Lega", Tiziana Nisini, replacing Senator Erika Stefani; Manuel Vescovi, replacing Senator Alberto Bagnai; for the list "Democratic Party", Caterina Biti, replacing Senator Roberta Pinotti; in the Umbria Region: for the list "Democratic Party", Leonardo Grimani, replacing Senator Matteo Renzi; in the Veneto Region: for the list "Fratelli d'Italia" with Giorgia Meloni, Adolfo Urso, replacing Senator Daniela Garnero Santanchè.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-1.ana.u8	I acknowledge the Junta of these communications and therefore proclaim the successor candidates Senators of the Republic. [[General applause]] I would warn you that the 20-day deadline for any complaints to be lodged will begin today with regard to the new proclamations.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-1.ana.u9	The next item is the vote on the election of the President. In accordance with Rule 4 of the Rules of Procedure, the election of the President of the Senate will take place by secret ballot. I recall that in this ballot for election an absolute majority of the members of the Senate is required, i.e. 161 votes. In order to allow for the smoothest running of voting operations, a cabin has been set up in front of the Presidency bench as usual. My fellow senators, immediately before entering the cabin, will receive from the parliamentary assistants a card that, after the vote, will kindly deposit in the appropriate urn on the way out of the cabin itself. I declare the vote open by secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the senators' appeal in alphabetical order. I'm just saying there's only one call. By being clear to each one what its place is in the alphabetical order, I ask each one to prepare for the time when it will come to that letter. [[Applause]] . (The Senator Provisional Secretary Wolf and, later, the Senator Provisional Secretary Laforgia make the appeal). The following members took part in the vote: Abbot, Accoto, Agostinelli, Aimi, Airola, Alberti Casellati, Alderisi, Alfieri, Anastasi, Angrisani, Arrigoni, Augussori Bagnai, Balboni, Barboni, Barboni, Battistoni, Bongiorno, Bonifazi, Bonino, Borgoni, Bossi Simone, Bossi Umberto, Bottici, Botto, Bressa, Briziarelli, Bruzzone, Bucharella Calderoli, Caliendo, Campagna, Campari, Candiani, Candura, Cantù, Carbone, Cario, Casolati, Casolati, Castaldi, Castellone, Castello, Calfoni, Caliendo, Caliendo, Candio, Candionio, Candiano, Candura, Cantù, Cantù, Cantù, Cantù, Cantù, Cantura I declare the vote closed and I am in favour of the provisional Bureau taking the ballots in public. I would sincerely like to thank the Secretary Senators for their cooperation. I invite two secretary senators to bring the urn to the bench of the Presidency. (Interim Secretary Senators proceed to the ballot box. The interim president shall read the ballot papers passed to him by the secretary-general and shall forward them to the interim secretary senators who shall take note of the votes cast). I call on the temporary secretary senators to proceed with the counting of votes, although I do not think there are any particular complexity. However, we also need the final statement. (Interim Secretary Senators shall count the votes.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-1.ana.u10	I declare the result of the secret ballot vote for the election of the President of the Senate: [[Senators present 317 Senators voting 317 Absolute majority of members of the Senate 161 Missing votes 5 White cards 312 None cards 0]] Since no senator has obtained an absolute majority of the votes of the members of the Senate, it is necessary, in accordance with Rule 4 of the Rules of Procedure, to proceed to a second vote by secret ballot, with the same required majority, which will take place this afternoon at 5 p.m. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 2.20 p.m. and resumed at 5.00 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-1.ana.u11	I would remind my fellow Members that, under Rule 4 of the Rules of Procedure, we must proceed to the second secret ballot for the election of the President of the Senate. This vote also requires an absolute majority of the members of this House, i.e. 161 votes. I declare the vote open by secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the senators' appeal in alphabetical order. (The Senator temporary secretary Pirovano and, later, the Senator temporary secretary Di Micco make the appeal). Dear Dear Family, Dear Family, Dear Family, Abbé, Accoto, Agostinelli, Aimi, Airola, Alberti Casellati, Alderisi, Alfieri, Anastasi, Angrisani, Arrigoni, Astorre, Auddino, Augussori Bagnai, Balboni, Barboni, Barbano, Battistoni, Bonfrisco, Bongiorno, Bonifazi, Bonino, Borghesi, Borgononi, Bossi Simone, Bossi Umberto, Bottici, Botto, Polisa, Briziarelli, Castellone, Buchcarella Calderoli, Caliendo, Campagna, Campari, Candiani, Candura, Cantù, Cantù, Carbone, Cario, Casini, Casolati, Casolati, Casaldi, Castaldi, Castellone, Castiello, Caliendo, Cabin I declare the vote closed. I would like to thank the Senators for their hard work and call them temporary secretaries and kind parliamentary assistants. I have the assurance that the provisional Bureau will take note of the fact-sheets in public sitting. I invite two temporary secretary senators to bring the urn to the bench of the Presidency. (Interim Secretary Senators proceed to the ballot box. The interim president shall read the ballot papers passed to him by the secretary-general and shall forward them to the interim secretary senators who shall take note of the votes cast). I invite the Senators Provisional Secretaries to proceed with the counting of votes. (Interim Secretary Senators shall count the votes.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-1.ana.u12	I declare the result of the secret ballot vote for the election of the President of the Senate: [[Senators present 319 Senators voting 319 Absolute majority of members of the Senate 161]] Senators got votes: [[Bernini 57 Bonino 2 Calderoli 1 Napolitano 1 Vote missing 0 White cards 255 Cards nulle 3]] Since no senator has obtained an absolute majority of the votes of the members of the Senate, pursuant to Rule 4 of the Rules of Procedure, it will be necessary to proceed on the day of tomorrow, Saturday 24 March, at 10.30 a.m., to a third vote in which the absolute majority of the votes of those present will be sufficient, compute among the votes also the blank ballots.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-1.ana.u13	I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 14 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, within three days of the first sitting, each elected senator is required to indicate to the presidency of the Senate the Group of which he intends to be a member.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-1.ana.u14	Following the dissolution of the Chambers, I inform you that the documents and documents set out in Annex B to today's Minutes have been received by the Presidency. I also inform you that questions have been received by the Presidency with a request for a written reply, which have always been published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-1.ana.u15	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-03-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-1.ana.u16	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Saturday 24 March, at 10.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.33 p.m.
