ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 14.10 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 981, already approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u5	Mr President, the Government submits to the Presidency, pursuant to Article 161, paragraph 3 -ter of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the text of an amendment entirely replacing Article 1 of bill 981 - Budget of the State for the financial year 2019 and multiannual budget for the three-year period 2019-2021 - on which the question of trust will be raised, after obtaining the permission of the Council of Ministers. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Ironic applause from the PD Group]] MALPEZZI (PD). Bravo! FARAONE (PD). Shame! You are without dignity.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u6	In accordance with Rule 161 (3) (b) of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency reserves the right to evaluate the text of the amendment in accordance with Rules 8 and 97 of the Rules of Procedure, as well as in the light of the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission - to which the amendment is transmitted immediately - in accordance with the combined provisions of Rules 102 -bis and 128, paragraph 6 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Vivacious protests from the PD Group]] The sitting shall be suspended until the Committee on Budgets has completed its work. (The sitting was suspended at 2.16 p.m. and resumed at 7 p.m.) I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission on Amendment 1,9000, which is entirely a substitute for Article 1 of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u7	The Economic Planning Commission, budget, examined the further amendment of the Government 1,9000, relating to the bill in title, transmitted by the Shareholders' Meeting, expresses, as far as it is of its own competence, opinion not precluded under the following conditions, pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution: - paragraphs 160-a to 160-novies of Article 1 are deleted; - paragraph 421 of Article 1, the figures indicated therein are replaced by those indicated, in reference to the same paragraph, by the Technical Report; - paragraph 653 of the article, the figures indicated therein are replaced by those indicated, in reference to the same paragraph, by the Technical Report; and with the following observations: - paragraphs 163-G and 163-Novies of Article 1 should be deleted, as they are not compatible with paragraph 187-NEC of the same article; - paragraph 167-A of Article 1, for a material error, the tables I and II which the Government deposited at the sitting and of which the copies are available; - paragraph 429-A of Article 1, for a material error, a draft is reproduced three times, for which is to be deleted by the previous provision of the second subparagraph, and the second subparagraph of the second subparagraph of amendment to be deleted by the second subparagraph, and second subparagraph, and second subparagraph. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I'll ask the government representative if he wants to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, I welcome the conditions and comments made by the 5th standing Commission, which become an integral part of the text. [[Senator Marcucci points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission and the intervention of the Government, the Presidency considers amendment 1,9000 acceptable, as reworded.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u10	Mr President, I would like to speak. And I asked him before! RENZI (PD). At least give it to him! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the floor, Senator Marcucci. And by the way, I don't feel like I've ever denied it to him. Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I believe that perhaps we should at least contextualize what happened earlier in the Budget Committee. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Parliament has witnessed a further offense, abuse and violence on the part of this majority. The Conference of Leaders had devoted two hours to deepening and understanding, two hours that are a very limited time. The Government, on the other hand, has presented itself to the Budget Committee and has again proposed a further modification of the maxi amendment! Mr Verducci (PD). Shame! Mr Marcucci (PD). And it took him an hour and 20 minutes to write five lines. And then he stopped us from arguing about this! [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Mr Laus (PD). Shame! Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, there are rights under the Constitution. There are obligations under the Constitution. VALENT (PD). That is your transparency! Mr Marcucci (PD). The budget committee has the right to go further. You've given us 20 minutes of further changes. VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. Shame on you! Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, you are endorsing vulnus to Parliament which are increasingly serious. All minorities did not participate in the vote. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr Verducci (PD). You must respect Parliament! Mr Marcucci (PD). All minorities! And you know why? The majority, in a methodical, continuous way, in these weeks, with violence, has worked so that the Senate could not read this maneuver, which is rich in very serious things for the country! [[Applause from the PD Group]] So, Mr President, be a group leader, but I do not think that in accordance with Rule 72 of the Constitution we can proceed to the vote as if it were nothing. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] Every minute there is an extra offense, there is an extra wound to democracy. You and the Senate have to stand up! [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Shame! Mr Verducci (PD). You're fooling the Italians! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u13	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, we are shocked. We are not dismayed, but we are bewildered. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.Laughter from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It's not funny, colleagues. You're not just amateurs. You're not just ridiculous. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] BINI (PD). What do you say? BERNINI (FI-BP). ...you're dangerous! [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups. Comments from the M5S Group]] Tell us what you're hiding from the Italians. Show us the cards. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Enough with these prestigious games on the Italians' skin. Mr President, yesterday we warned the government and told Mr Fraccaro, with the utmost respect for the person, that this situation is ridiculous. We're acting like weirdos to the country. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] We are embarrassingly representing all those voters who believed in the majority and that this maneuver could have meant something. This is a political failure, we know it; do we not mean Caporetto? Say Waterloo. [[Illarity from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] President, we have tried to defend the majority from itself. I'm glad you're so llarious. It's nice that the thought of reducing Italians in underwear has a lot of fun. Bravo! Congratulations! [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] We want to see a maneuver that unfortunately is announced of cuts, taxes, VAT and safeguard clauses that will take place and unfortunately every day is not the right one. We have said - you are witnessing this, Mr President, the most qualified witness, but Mr Fraccaro is also witnessing this - to vote on Sunday. Don't be ridiculous any more. Do not put this Parliament further into difficulties with regard to the country. Colleagues, friends, we're all making a fool of ourselves, and not just you guys who handle this maneuver in an amateur way. We're all here trying to work and we can't do it because of you. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] Let it be clear that this delay that is leading us to dance to the temporary exercise is your fault. We're always ready here. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] Commissions that convoke, debauch, streaming denied: but what are you afraid of? This government is also made up of a political force that made Parliament's transparency and openness as a can of tuna its distinctive figure. Friends, you got the tuna! [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] Instead of an open can of tuna, you want us to approve this closed box maneuver. We're not in. Mr President, we ask once again - and we regret it and we are a little ashamed of it, even if it is not our fault, because the delays are not our fault, we are suffering them just like the Italian people and we will pay them on our skin just like the Italian people - to convene another Conference of the Leaders to try again to make that unnecessary exercise of fixing times that we have been doing for ten days to this side, hoping that it will be the good time. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] We tried, Mr Fraccaro, to defend you from yourselves yesterday, but unfortunately we did not succeed. We will try again this time with yet another Conference of the Leaders, if President Alberti Casellati will give it to us. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u16	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we thought we had reached the very bottom, but we were wrong because there is clearly no limit to the worst. Mr President, we have asked and we are asking - and we are clear - that the Conference of the Leaders be convened because we denounce here what happened in the Budget Committee: there is a clear and precise violation of Rule 161 (3) -quater, of our Rules of Procedure. It's very clear: they're incompetent, and that's all I want to say. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] [[Senator Laus' comments.]] They are incompetent people who hold the fate of the country: card wins, card loses. They set standards, then they remove them; they do not want to explain them; there is more in the technical report. I would remind you, Mr President - but you know him better than I do - of Rule 161 (3) -quater of the Rules of Procedure: If the question of trust is raised about the approval of an amendment of government initiative, the Government may, before the discussion, specify its content solely for reasons of financial coverage or formal coordination of the text. It cannot intervene to put or remove rules for political reasons or for the convenience of the moment. Mr President, we can no longer accept that there are continuous and systematic violations of the Rules of Procedure. What a humiliation of the Senate and Parliament! [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] We are constantly trampled on: in the Commission there has been no good taste - I do not know what else to say - or good education, since for days, or rather for weeks, we have been asking for explanations, for answers. Arrogance, inability. My colleague Bernini is right: you are dangerous for this country. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] President. - The next item is the report (Doc. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, FI-BP and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u17	He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament and for Direct Democracy, Mr Fraccaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorized by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of trust... [[Screaming and lively protests from FI-BP and PD groups. Senators Misiani and Laus are throwing papers into the air. Applause from the M5S Groups]] and L-SP-PSd'Az). RAMPI (PD). You're out! Mr Verducci (PD). Are you kidding me? MALPEZZI (PD). You can't! Mr Marcucci (PD). You're thugs! FRACCARO, Minister for Relations with Parliament and Direct Democracy. ... on the approval of amendment 1,9000, fully replacing Article 1 of Law No 981 - Budget of the State for the financial year 2019 and multiannual budget for the three-year period 2019-2021 - which transposes the conditions and comments made by the 5th Permanent Commission and accepted by the Government. Mr Laus (PD). Delinquents!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u19	Please, colleagues. The Presidency takes note of the position of the matter of confidence on the adoption of amendment 1,9000 (correct text), tabled by the Government, fully replacing Article 1 of the draft law. [[Screaming and lively protests from FI-BP and PD groups.]] As requested, I immediately convene the Conference of Leaders to organise the relevant debate. MALPEZZI (PD). Buffoons! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 7.14 p.m. and resumed at 7.59 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u20	The Conference of Leaders re-modulated the timing of the discussion on the question of trust, put by the Government on the amendment entirely replacing the first section of the budget law, moving the final explanations of vote to 23.30 in order to allow the discussion to take place in the times already defined yesterday, that is to say about three hours and thirty minutes. So live television will take place at the new time at 23.30.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u23	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, I begin with the end this time. After what happened in the Commission today, it seems to us to be a total break in the constitutional and democratic spirit: wrong numbers, accounts that do not come back, excerpts, Presidents barricaded within the Commission, and also of that political movement that made transparency, of streaming, as we said before, its characteristic trait. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] Mr President, it would be a real desire, especially after twenty days of exasperation, to adhere to the spirit of that political movement which I mentioned earlier, in one of its famous events in Bologna in 2007, the famous Vaffa day. We can't do this anymore. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] But the problem, Mr President, is that they are sending the Italians to that country! This is a mockery of the Italians! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] They are not gagging us, who have asked to vote tomorrow morning, asking for explanations of vote and the final vote on live television tomorrow morning. Once again, what are you afraid of? Are you afraid that you will see the content of this maneuver, which will be of tears of blood for Italians? Are you afraid that the Italians will notice on Sunday morning? Don't you want to disturb their sensitivity? [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] More poverty for all: they will see it! We will vote at 11.30 p.m. Actually, no, much later. At 11:30, live television will begin. So, we're gonna vote at 2:00 in the morning. And who's walking around at night other than the Befana? Who's around 2:00 a.m. apart from the Befana, given the Christmas holidays? The ones who sneak into Italian homes. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] You're scared! You're afraid of being judged by the Italians. You, the ones of honesty! You, the transparency guys! You, the people from the hashtag: streaming the truth for everyone! You don't have the courage to make the minority voices heard before 2:00 a.m.! Shame on you! Shame on you! [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] You're rendering a vile service to democracy. We have no more words to tell you how horrible this parliamentary behavior is. Once again, they suggest to me: filthy. Are you afraid to say that you will pay citizenship income with the money of pensioners earning 1,300 euros a month after a working life? You're afraid: say it! Don't say it at 2:00 in the morning! Have the courage to say it in the sunlight, not like thieves at night or like the Befana! [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] The Italians will find a very painful and very empty Christmas package under the tree. You are afraid to say that you have cut all possible and imaginable incentives to those productive categories to which you had promised everything: artisans, traders, VAT matches and entrepreneurs. You took their lives! Are you afraid to say that? Have the courage of your actions. Don't let us vote at 2:00 in the morning. Remember, the Italians will understand. They'll know anyway! We who have a democratic spirit have remained here until the end, but we will not forgive you. We won't forgive you! And we're going to do our fight to the end, so the Italians know what's inside this horrible, filthy Christmas package! We're not giving up! [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] And I repeat, Mr President, that once again we hope - but more than hope is almost a hypothetical period of unreality - in an active and active repentance. We hope that you will enable us to be heard by the country when we tell our truths, that they are obviously stronger than yours if you do not want us to tell them. Let's hope we vote tomorrow morning. We hope that the media will transmit these things rather than continue to say that there is no opposition. The opposition is there! Give us a voice! Let's hear it! Give us a voice! We are there and we will fight until the end, because you have to account for this disaster to the Italians. From now on, we'll always be there! [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups. The Senators of the FI-BP Group stand up. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u26	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, we have had a difficult Conference of Leaders. I wonder where Minister Fraccaro has gone, demonstrating the consideration he has already shown in recent months for Parliament and the Senate of the Republic. I understand that during Christmas there are so many dinners, there is to buy gifts and Minister Fraccaro, like President Salvini and President Di Maio, are very busy. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] I would have liked him to have been here in this House, not least because I will now repeat what I said at the Conference of Leaders, namely that the problem is certainly what has happened in these weeks and days, but in particular today. Mr Fraccaro, in his new position, not as Minister for relations with Parliament, but as a puppeteer, sat in the antechamber of the President of the Budget Commission, went personally to manage the work and to direct the time and, dear Mr President, he did something that cannot be done: instrumentally he decided to take an hour and thirty, of the two hours that we had decided in the Capigroup to deepen the maxi amendment, to write five lines for the amendment presented at that time. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] These are violence done in Parliament, serious violence! We in the Group of the Party of European Socialists and all the oppositions - I repeat - have decided not to vote against this. It's a big deal, and it never happened. However, President Pesco, who first provoked and announced that he would expel whoever interrupted him, actually had his own plan: he had to have him vote without debate. Congratulations, President worked well behind the direction of Minister Fraccaro. Congratulations! [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] You see, Mr President, we all studied it at school: there are rules in democracy. We cannot and must not accept that the Commission, with its Minister for relations with Parliament, should set the line in the Commission. We cannot accept that the government also plays the role of the Senate, of the legislature. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] We must remember the division of powers, Mr President. That is why the Democratic Party, in view of the very serious violations of Rule 72, not of the Rules of Procedure, but of the Italian Constitution, the Charter which we should all be inspired by, expresses the will to raise, as a parliamentary group, under Article 134 of the Constitution, the direct appeal to the Constitutional Court, so that the judge of the laws will decide on the enormousities that have been carried out and are being carried out before our eyes and under those of the country. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] It's a shame! This is a violent government that cares about Parliament, Parliament's rights and comes to bully and hurt unprecedented. This is unheard of and we are forced to go to the Constitutional Court for the first time in the history of the Republic, because you must know the gravity of what you are combining against the country and against the Italians! [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups. PD Group senators stand up]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Shame!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u29	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I have to say that in my not short political career - I attended less prestigious classrooms than this - I hardly happened to say: I don't have words. On this occasion I must say that I personally and my colleagues in the Fratelli d'Italia Group have been speechless, because the show staged by the majority is frankly difficult to comment on while remaining faithful to the dictates of the institutional respect that we owe to you and you owe to us, President and colleagues of the majority. I do not want to make a political intervention - we will talk about it later during the evening and the night - but I want to make a simple speech of method and respect. Frankly, we have agreed so many times to the changes in the programme by the majority; we have always patiently waited for the majority to decide when and how to discuss, including the maxi amendment. Also this time we received "fish in the face" with respect to our availability and responsibility. If we want to have respect first of all for ourselves, colleagues, and for the role we play as a popular mandate, we should ask at least two to three days of examination in the Commission to understand at least superficially what is written in that package of maxi amendment that only this afternoon the Government delivered to the Commission. However, we realize, perhaps before the same majority, that this would mean the provisional exercise, and we have at heart first of all the interests of our country, before and perhaps even more than the majority, which has demonstrated - I must say the truth - serious irresponsibility and amateurism in the management of this so important game. We'll do what most people ask: do you ask us to stay here all night? We will be discussing and bringing our contribution all night, I hope constructive, despite the wall that the majority have created around their maxi amendment. Allow me only - and I have concluded, Mr President - a small note with regard to Mr Fraccaro, who is not in the Chamber now. When you are sitting so clearly on the wrong side, a Minister of the Republic, before standing up and asking for trust, in a vaguely provocative tone - allow me - you should have a minimum of political intelligence - I say it without haughtiness, as a friendly advice - to say two words: "Excuse us, Senators". [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and PD Groups]] He should tell us: "Excuse me, members of the Senate; we apologize for the conditions in which you are forced to operate." We would have appreciated that, and certainly the climate of the debate that awaits us would have been better. Instead, despite the mistakes, we continue with an attitude that is either provocative or needs more adjective that I must spare myself because we are in the Senate. Mr President, I would therefore ask you, my colleagues in the majority and the Government to realise the conditions under which we are forced to operate. We maintain the line of responsibility, but believe me, this is not an easy task. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u32	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, first of all, I would like to say to Senator Ciriani that Mr Fraccaro is very concerned with direct democracy, but he is obviously not very familiar with parliamentary democracy. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] This is what he evidently reveals. You know, Mr President, that we are all here between the exasperated and the exhausted; you too, I think, may be a little exasperated - let me say this to you - because compared to what has been seen in these days, frankly - I say this with sadness - it is difficult to find similar precedents, even going back in time. It has done everything by a majority, unable to get us to work in the Commission, to decide, to give a minimum of composure. We all know - alas - what is going on; we should think for a long time about what the practice of trust has become, but this will be a reflection that we will all have to do quietly. But here we have reached the point where, despite everything that has happened in recent weeks, the commitments made in the Commission have been betrayed on time. The last commitment yesterday was to have at least the chance to have two hours. President, two hours! [[Applause from Senator Malpezzi.]] You know that even in the timetable proposal we made yesterday we had asked, among other things, to have a little more time at least in the Commission. What has happened is that we have acted in a good manner: the Commission was convened at 4 p.m. and the suspension was requested immediately, and the opposition, Mr President, did not ask for it, but the majority. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]] Did they take an hour and then after what they did, still in front of the requests to have the further changes presented? How can you not think that as usual everything was pre-arranged? Of course, the debate, Parliament, the Commissions are both intriguing and awkward. All to cover once again the inability to write a maxi amendment, to determine itself. In addition, Mr President, there are very different things in this major amendment, as far as we have seen, also compared to those which were somewhat overshadowed. We find ourselves with additional heavy cuts. Do we want to talk about the extra heavy investment cut? What does this mean? This is what comes out of this major amendment. Good thing they called it an expansive maneuver: this is a maneuver once again recessive and rigorous, which cashes in the usual way: hitting pensioners. Put platinum pensions - the new thing is that they are called in this way - to cover once again the cuts in the pensions of the poor wretched, of 1,500 gross euros. Do you know, President, how much is 1,500 euros gross? To 1.100-1.150 euros net. And we cut there one more time to cash in, the usual way! [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]] You had to call yourself the "Government of change" to do what has been done repeatedly, on the skin of the Italians. We were just asking to be able to discuss, to have explanations. You put the rules and then you remove, you get there, you say things in writing (then we will talk about paragraph 161, which they have written down). This once again becomes a way to make fun of us, indeed to prevent the possibility of any discussion. We come up with the opinion; this is something really incredible, Mr President. It's unheard of what happened. We are about to vote on a maneuver - which you will vote for yourself - which this Parliament has not even had the chance to finish reading. This is truly unheard of. How do you do that? We all went to the Quirinale and heard the words of the President of the Republic, who not only called me or just you, but everyone. He called everyone to give back strength and to put Parliament back at the centre, because this is a parliamentary democracy. The Constitution is not only defended for instrumental reasons, when it suits you, but the Constitution always defends itself. Always! [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]] That is why, Mr President, I am asking you - I have already told you this and I am going to continue with the proposal - at least what was guaranteed in the calendar voted yesterday at the Conference of the Leaders and then here in this House, that is to say at least the possibility that the Commission can examine the maxi amendment. That is our proposal. We do not want to give up anything, we do not want to give up what we want to say, we do not want to give up the parliamentary debate, we want to give up the debate on trust, because as long as we have a voice we will be heard and we will no longer be able to endure abuse. I told the group leaders. President, I have fought in front of all the abuses in this House and I will continue to do so, because with what is obviously happening, appetite is eating. Once again put the bar even higher, but we'll get this bar down sooner or later. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u33	Senator De Petris, I would just like to represent to you that, since the Government has put its trust in the maxi amendment, as you know, the maxi amendment can no longer go back to the Commission. This is only for an answer to a request you have made. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). It has to be changed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It seems to me that there is only the proposal of Senator Bernini, who asked to move the explanation of vote and the final vote to Sunday. Mr Marcucci (PD). December 26th. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marcucci, instead, moved the final vote to December 26. I put to the vote Senator Marcucci's proposal to move explanations of vote... [[Protests from the PD Group. Several Senators of the PD Group descend into the hemicycle, rip the files of the maxi amendment and launch them towards the benches of the Government]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Shame! Mr Laus (PD). It's rag paper! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, no. Get out of here. VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I ask Senators Quaestors to intervene. [[Senator Marcucci's lively comments.]] Mr Laus (PD). Shame on you! [[Applause from the PD Group. Senator Licheri's lively comments.]] Senators Quaestors... Senator Malpezzi, come back to your place. Please, colleagues, go back to your seats. [[Lively comments from the PD Group]] Mr Marcucci (PD). We're not going back to our seats! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marcucci, I'm putting your proposal to the vote. You have just asked me to put it to the vote. VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, don't you want to put it to the vote anymore? [[Screams and comments from the PD Group.]] I don't understand what you're saying. I don't understand. [[Senator Malpezzi points out that she wants to intervene.]] Senator Malpezzi, what is it? I put Senator Marcucci's proposal to the vote and I didn't understand what happened.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u34	Mr President, apart from a simple manifestation of delivery of pages which are of no value to us. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] , because we did not have the opportunity to read them and to analyze them, the Bottici commissioner, instead of calming the souls, if needed, she allowed herself to put her hands on me. [[Live comments from the M5S Group]] Mr Verducci (PD). Shame! Mr Marcucci (PD). Buffoons! MALPEZZI (PD). There were the assistants, who were doing their job... [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u35	Senator Malpezzi, you don't understand anything. If you do this, I have to suspend the session. If we all talk together, we can't understand anything.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u36	[[Screaming and lively protests from the PD Group.]] I don't understand anything. Mr Marcucci (PD). We want Senator Bottici to answer. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We are voting. VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. No! Stop the session! VALENT (PD). Mr President, we claim the prerogatives of this House! Mr Verducci (PD). It's a constant provocation! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We are voting on the proposal... [[Live comments from the PD Group.]] Please return to your place. I ask everyone to return to their place. Please. [[Screaming and lively protests from the PD Group.]] MALPEZZI (PD). Mr. President... I don't feel anything. MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, I want everyone in this House to be guaranteed. That's his role. We've seen unspeakable things these days. The moment we were just handing over some papers, the Bottici commissioner, instead of doing his job, got his hands on me. [[Screams and protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u37	You expressed your opinion and were listened to. [[Screaming and repeated, prolonged protests from the PD Group]] MALPEZZI (PD). It's not an opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please take your place again. Mr Verducci (PD). It's a continuous provocation, President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Since I am used to checking all positions, if there has been any offensive attitude, this will be verified. [[Reiterate protests from the PD Group.]] I have not seen him; I must be able to see him. [[Screams and protests from Senator Bellanova.]] I will verify this in the interest of guaranteeing everyone's rights. [[Very lively and repeated protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u40	Mr Marcucci (PD). You see, Mr President, a few hours ago we already pointed out to the Presidency that Senator Bottici, as well as Commissioner of the Senate, had allowed herself, in her speech, to offend the Senators of the Democratic Party. She felt like she wasn't doing anything. You thought it was right for a Senate commissioner to offend his colleagues. What do you think today? That it's right for a Senate quaestor to push his colleagues? He's not in their homework, and you have to stop him. You are now going to see the footage, or here we are taking it seriously tonight. Do you understand? You must ensure that the Senate bodies respect everyone and not what happened in the Commission tonight. Suspend and go watch the videos! VALENT (PD). Suspend the Assembly's work!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u41	If you let me talk, maybe... CHOIR OF VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Suspend! Suspend! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't suspend at all. [[Very lively and repeated protests from the PD Group.]] BELLANOVA (PD). That's not how you do it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Because I already said... [[Screams and lively protests from Senator Bellanova.]] Senator Bellanova, I can't hear anything without a microphone. [[Very lively, repeated protests from the PD Group.]] VALENT (PD). Stop the session! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to clarify this position and tell Senator Marcucci that I was putting to the vote, as you requested... [[Screams and protests from the PD Group.]] I can't talk! You always ask for respect and the rights are of everyone, even mine, okay? Mr Marcucci (PD). It's unheard of! Mr Laus (PD). Suspend! RAMPI (PD). No way! Mr Verducci (PD). We won't let you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Since Senator Marcucci is intended to have renounced his request, I put to the vote the proposal to postpone the explanations of vote and the final vote to Sunday, tabled by Senator Bernini. [[Screams and protests from the PD Group.]] It's not approved. [[Very lively, repeated protests from the PD Group.]] Mr Laus (PD). Suspend! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Since there are no other requests for change, the organisation approved at the Conference of the Leaders remains confirmed. [[Live comments from Senator Bellanova.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u42	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. [[Very lively protests from the PD Group.]] RAMPI (PD). President, look at what's going on! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. [[Very lively, prolonged protests from FI-BP and PD groups.]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Suspend! Resign! RAMPI (PD). Look at what's going on! It's a disaster! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 8.31 p.m. and resumed at 8.34 p.m.) He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u43	Mr President, it will agree with me that it is not easy to speak at this time when the conflict between majority and opposition is evident, certainly due to the time when the maneuver came, but even more to the lack of confrontation between majority and opposition, first in the Commission and today in this House. The comparison, however, has not been possible to avoid it with the European Commission and the European clerk has fallen heavily on our maneuver, the maneuver of one of the founding countries. Italy has been subjected to a bad figure and has paid in terms of credibility, but also of loss of the value of the savings of citizens and businesses. President, I continue to speak, but I think I am speaking to myself because this House is out of control, and I am sorry, but I am pleased to appreciate the presence of Minister Tria and I thank the Subsecretaries present. I am sorry, however, that there are not the main architects of this manoeuvre that are the two Vice Premier. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Bellanova]] I would have liked their presence, but not because they listened to what I said, but because of the respect they owe to Parliament and respect from the head, they cannot start from the tail. That's what I'm really sorry about. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] A comparison between majority and opposition was avoided and it was successful because the Commission did not talk about the maneuver, but it was not possible to avoid confrontation with the European Community, with the European Union; a comparison which took place before the fact that it was one of the founding States in all the press bodies, thus requiring all the credibility and goodness that should have been recognized by a founding State. However, the debate did not take place in Parliament. It seems to me that there has been a great cowardice, [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , in avoiding the direct confrontation between majority and opposition on the most important law that regulates the life of our entire community. I am sorry to hear that, and I am also sorry to be a member of the Commission, because the maneuver has a great deal to do with the work of our Commission. We refer to the income of citizenship, as well as to Share 100 and, why not, also to turnover in the public administration, which has direct effects with regard to civil servants, but also for those who daily confront with the public administration. Three major issues, dealt with only partially in the maneuver, where no regulatory detail is yet available. Three major themes that need to be carefully measured and kept out of easy propaganda. Yes, from an easy propaganda. They concern people's lives, their income, their ability to fight in an increasingly exclusive society in the literal sense, that is, a society that excludes the weakest. But you: done, done, done! That cannot be the answer, especially when there is someone who will not be able to spend a happy Christmas. But Italians aren't stupid. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] - this is your flaw; you have also sinned of presumption - and they are understanding that wisdom, not that of white hair like mine, but that of the one who studied, of the one who built something, of the one who works, of pensioners, maybe is coming back into fashion. Honesty, gentlemen of the government, is a prerequisite for politicians. But then we must be able to understand that every political decision has an effect on the daily life of all the people of our Republic. Therefore, the assessment of the maneuver, through the votes on the amending proposals, would not have been an unnecessary exercise, not least because the changes were and were very heavy, written first by the local bureaucracy - you too, Minister Tria, helped to rewrite the maneuver - and then by the euro bureaucracy; they reduced the amounts of the three measures mentioned, judging them as dangerous to the public accounts. Even if they are now slipping over time for reasons of financial coverage, the danger remains for the years after 2019, so much so that they have asked us to make extraordinary covers, up to almost 29 billion (I don't know how you will do the maneuver next year, if you still are there and I frankly hope not), through the increase of VAT up to 26.5 percent. Have you understood what an increase in VAT means for our workers, our citizens and businesses? Maybe you didn't realize it, but I'm staying on the subject of work. Dear friends of the Movimento 5 Stars, you must remember that the income of citizenship is implemented in countries where there is full employment, which allows you to have contributions such as to be able to bear the expenses for those few workers who leave the world of work or who are dismissed. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In Italy the issue is totally different because one third of our young people do not work. How do you promise a citizenship income with the funds you do not have and that the European Union has cut you further? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You're crazy. You're inciting the revolution by promising things you can't keep. This is the serious accusation I make to you. I should like to talk about the fourth industrial revolution and the impossibility of our workers being trained to prepare for it, which will drastically reduce manual work because more and more skilled and professionally trained work will be sought. Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to address the Minister. This phantom maneuver, revised, corrected several times and we don't know if prevailing in the shades between yellow and green I'm sure no one will please. It does not satisfy you - but little harm - above all it does not satisfy those who have to suffer it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u44	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Senator Renzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u45	Mr President, Minister for Economic Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the scenes we have seen on this day have been recorded cannot prevent us from considering the budget law of an economic nature. Other Members of the Democratic Party - whom I thank for the work they have done these weeks and these days - will intervene to stigmatize the uniqueness of the procedure that has been followed. I merely say, through you, Mr President, particularly the Minister for Economic Affairs, that there was a great deal of interest in the world for the first maneuver of the Italian populist government. The President of the United States last week discussed and argued with the President of the Federal Reserve. The President of the People's Republic of China Xi Jinping gave an extraordinary speech on the 40th anniversary of Deng Xiaoping's great speech. The economy is slowing down worldwide. Very different countries of the European Union, such as France and Hungary, see complicated street demonstrations at this time and, therefore, your work, the work of this Government was seen with great attention. I am referring to merit and not to squalid procedures. What is the symbol of this budget law? Is this a measure? No, Minister, and you know it. The symbol of this budget law is the balcony of Palazzo Chigi, which opens for the first time since 1982. At that time Italy had won the World Cup. The President of the Council was Giovanni Spadolini. It faces the head of the first Italian party, as well as Vice-Premier and Minister of Labour, to shout to the world that they have abolished poverty, that the challenge to Europe is launched and that we cannot go back from 2.4. The Italian press considered the reference to the balcony as a reference to the fascist twenty years. Certainly in Italian history there are many balconies: those of us who are more romantic can think of Juliet and Romeo, even if the image of Casalino and Di Maio does not have the same effect. Those of us who know a little bit about economic policy know that the balcony evokes for international markets - Minister Tria well knows - the image of the worst populism: peronism, that Argentine model that destroyed one of the largest economies - the number four - of the first half of the twentieth century, that is the Argentine economy. All the international markets have painted Di Maio on that balcony as a neo-peronist and the image of the country has suffered dramatically. A hasty reverse has begun, Mr President. The maneuver of the people has become the reverse of the populists and I would like it to remain in the record, here in the Senate, that you had won the election promising the flat tax and the flat tax there is only for the evaders [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] You had won the election by promising a citizenship income of €780 per month for everyone, with an estimated cost of €63 billion, and the additional money for citizenship income is three or four billion at most. You promised to abolish the Fornero law and you have come to the point of denying indexing to Italian pensioners. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] Today reality presents you the bill: you lied, you cheated the Italians on March 4th. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] You were the change, and now you're the old man and this ongoing procedural battle of yours doesn't take away the reality for what it is. Your economic measure, your budget maneuver does not lead the country to grow, if it is true that already in the first six months of government GDP has slowed down and jobs have begun to decrease. If it is true how true it is that you may gain confidence - indeed, you will certainly get it - you have lost the confidence of businesses and consumers, simply by the force of your free proclamations. This is the debate we should have had. I acknowledge that Senator Bagnai has made a wonderful speech on Europe. I do not agree with him, but he has made a wonderful speech to tell us what Europe is like and how it needs to be changed. However, Mr President, the Senate has witnessed that local populism and sovereignism have not only been dictated by the budget law from Brussels, but we have come to the paradox that we have had to postpone a one-hour Senate session. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] because the President of the Council had not been authorised by the Lithuanian Commissioner and the French Commissioner. It's like a joke: there's an Italian, a Lithuanian, and a French... [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] No, the joke is the budget law! You said that the President of the Council was the lawyer of the people who defended Italy. The President-in-Office of the Council in Brussels made a plea, he did not defend Italy. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] and the account will pay him, in 2019, the middle class of the country. What remains, however, as an inescapable and sad point of this debate does not concern the relations between the Government and the opposition. They are historically complicated and the President knows better than anyone, because of his experience, how many times in this House the opposition has complained about the lack of respect for its rights. But now there is something different, Mr President: for the first time in the history of the Senate under discussion, it is not the relationship between the Government and the opposition, but the relationship between the Government and its majority. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] I say this, with respect, first of all to the senators of the Movimento 5 Stars and the League: to be questioned is not our function to make opposition. He may or may not like it, but that's it. What has been called into question, with an amendment in the dark, which you have not read, is your function as representatives of the Italian people. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] Why? What happened, Mr. President? Something simple has happened. It happened - starting from that balcony - that they consider you good to go to applaud the night when the Vice President of the Council must give historical announcements to humanity and participate in the choral ceremony of the applause, but they do not even consider you able to submit an amendment, because the technicians and the Euroburocrats think about it. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] They only consider you able to participate in the talk shows. There is one thing that this budget law shows today. At Christmas there are gifts; this budget law brings only the condones, from what we see. [[Applause from the PD Group]] However, there is one aspect that must remain impressed on you for next year. You are the majority party in Parliament in this parliamentary term and you have the right and the duty to bring your results home. However, you have been treated by this Government as you do with the audience of talk shows: able to applaud, unable to say anything. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You can only deceive everyone once; you can deceive someone forever; you cannot deceive everyone forever. And today, with today, the time of the Government of the populists is over. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u46	She is registered to speak Senator Testor. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u47	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech with a reflection on the meaning of the word trust: 'a feeling of optimistic expectation towards someone or something'. Each of us is a Member of Parliament, because we have gained the confidence of our citizens. We must therefore give the answers to those to whom we have listened. Each of us therefore has a duty to transform the popular mandate into legislative acts. It is with deep regret that, as a newly elected Member of Parliament, I note that I am standing in front of a wall where the proposals, even reasonable, my and my colleagues bounce back, like when you play squash. And this shows that those who are part of this Government, said of the change, have become deaf as those who preceded it. Worse, actually. I am a member of the European Union's political Commission, which, as you know, is responsible for transposing every European directive or regulation. Every single thing that concerns Italian public life is now dictated to us by Brussels and we receive it. Where it is not correctly transposed into our law, an infringement procedure is opened, to be remedied. Now we've gone further. The European Commission, that is, a gathering of non-elected people, has literally dictated the new rules to a Government led by a Council President not elected by anyone. Parliament has been completely dismissed from examining the maneuver and democracy has been put in the attic, in the face of the Constitution and the European Treaties, which must also respect our fundamental law. In Brussels they had an easy game. They have faced a government that has changed the bill several times and a majority that increasingly reveals its contradictions. The reason is simple: there are two very different parties. On the one hand, one with a Zapatista program and surreal proposals that he wanted to include in the budget law, because he had taken his consent from the promises contained in those programmatic points. On the other hand, there is a historical party, which had shared a liberal and reformist electoral programme with the entire coalition of the center-right. It was evident that they were two programs that were largely incompatible with each other. And the electorate clearly distinguished itself. The only glue between the two sides so different was the idea, rather clumsy, that, by making further public spending, this would increase the gross domestic product and contrast the weak development of the country compared to the other countries that adopt the euro. However, they had to clash with the fact that one is no longer equal to one, not only for the 5 Stars, but also for those who support Keynesian theories, because those policies have nothing expansive, but they are just spending. The only thing that has not been lacking Italy so far is a current expenditure in continuous ascent, not rarely allocated badly, often inefficient, sometimes used for waste. Instead of taking priority action on this expenditure, to retrain it, cutting waste, inefficiency, bureaucracy, ineffectiveness in the allocation of resources, they thought of multiplying it. Unfortunately - or fortunately - it is a game that Europe did not like. This time we should almost give thanks to the stepmother Europe, which in this case has behaved like a wise and far-sighted mother, who wants to enforce the rules to his son a little discordant. If we talk about Italy, we talk about a concrete son, we talk about the Italian enterprise, the manufacturing, the ingenuity. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Why now do we want to transgress rules that are set to protect one's own righteousness? That's what the rules on debt and deficit are for. They are not scientifically unassailable numbers, but, all in all, they are numbers that Italy also shared, signing the treaties and regulations. The exceptions to the inflexible rule on spending on debt, which limits the use of deficit, are already there, dear Italy, Europe has told us. We agree financial spaces in deficit for the emergencies of the previous years and for the new ones: for the migrant emergency, which even if attenuated continues; for the hydrogeological failure that suffers your country; spaces for the Morandi bridge, for the maintenance of damaged roads and for the bridges on the river Po. But don't talk to us about citizenship income or even review pension rules. Now we hope that that 2% deficit will really be used for the urgency of this country. Among these, certainly there is no citizenship income, on which the government wanted to waste 9 billion euros. Now he's gonna throw a billion on the employment centers, which are totally useless. The problem of employment and unemployment will remain, because it is a completely unnecessary measure. It would have been different to help those who remained behind (and for this it needed an income of dignity, like what we proposed). The reform of pensions must also follow measures that make the labour market more dynamic and inclusive, otherwise the risk is to retire workers, but to have no one to take their place, because in a recession or moderate growth of the economy businesses will hardly hire new workers. [[Call the president back.]] I'll finish. Let me say this: two political forces that wanted to impose a change on the country have ended up proposing traditional measures, cuts in business facilities, new taxes, new rates, micro-sectoral interventions in every corner of the maneuver. In short, a maneuver that has nothing new, that perpetuates ancient vices of the old politics, adding a total indifference to those parliamentarians who could make, with their experience of the real world, an effective and solid contribution. Let us remember that our work is aimed at contributing to the common good and, at times, a little listening and confrontation would be useful. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u48	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the debate on the matter of trust allows us to make considerations that go beyond the sad page that the Government is writing these days with the draft budget law. Let me, Mr President, express my concern, which is confirmed in what has happened even today, about the way in which both the majority forces have interpreted these months of government. They've changed their minds about everything, made high-sounding proclamations about Europe and then got their financials written. They explained to the Italians that they would never fall below 2.4 percent deficit and today present us with a maneuver that predicts 2. But there is a common trait that unifies the two leaders of the League and 5 Stars, on which they have shown themselves consistent and cohesive from the beginning, and it is the constant manifestation of a growing annoyance towards the rules of democratic confrontation, a desire to delegitimize all the institutions of guarantee, to question the autonomy of the agencies up to the judiciary. Who, from these areas, which are those that guarantee everyone, expresses in his own role ideas and opinions that contrast with those of the majority, is denigrated, delegitized, invited to run. You have the idea that the winner commands, not that he governs in the respect of institutional balances. There is an idea of democracy more similar to that of Orban than that drawn by our constituents. You attack the press and you want to make life more difficult to information. And today more is being done in a decisive step for the country, like that of the budget law: Parliament is being bypassed, discussion is prevented, representatives of the citizens are humiliated, all representatives of the citizens. Winners can do anything, even challenge common sense, as you are doing with this financial. This is the message: humiliating Parliament This message is a new message, it is a worrying message. It never happened. You've made a maneuver to pretend to keep your promises, but you can't. On the other hand, it risks putting the country on its knees. We don't know what's left of the citizenship income. With less than a third of the resources you promised to invest, it risks being useless and irrelevant to the lives of poor people. We will read, when there is a text to discuss, what will result in the income of citizenship. But of one thing we are already certain: not only will it not defeat poverty, but it will not produce that growth of consumption that, absurdly, you had sold as a positive effect of citizenship income. On the contrary, this manoeuvre, which blocks the indexation of pensions, not those of gold, but pensions above EUR 1,300, which prohibits cumulation, which increases taxes, will reduce consumption. Even at 100, we will see the measure, which is being translated into an operation that will allow a few thousand people to retire before, we still do not know when, with less money and the illusion that this obtains work to young people. While what is certain is that there will be nothing in this measure for young people, there will be nothing to guarantee decent pensions for those who retire in the next few years, who will not benefit from a 100 quota and who, with a contribution, risk to retire with 40% of the income of work they receive. Maybe that was a priority. On the other hand, it will be the future of the young people and the country that will pay the highest price of this financial, the highest price to your propaganda and the electoral campaign of the majority forces. Next year we will have to sterilize not 12 billion safeguard clauses, as we have been doing for years, after, I remember, the League, together with the Berlusconi Government, had to put them. From next year we will have to pay 23 billion and, in 2021, 28. It means no longer being able to invest in the future of this country. It means that, in the end, VAT will have to be increased if we are to continue to maintain essential services. And the weakest will pay. It will be the people who, according to you, had to write the maneuver. Maybe that's the idea you have of the government. Young people will pay, because they will not be able to invest in the future, development, research and training. You tell us, as a justification, that you have found a very high public debt. Let me ask you a question: did you not know, when you explained in the election campaign that the income of citizenship, 100 quota and flat tax were sustainable, that this country had a very high public debt? [[Applause from the PD Group]] You explained to us that it was only a matter of political will. Now you know that this is not the case: welcome to reality, welcome to the world! We're seeing that you're changing this country for the worse. For years you have accused us of not wanting to fight, for example, gambling and today increase the revenue forecasts, extended the concessions of the betting rooms that we wanted to reduce and postpone the breaking up of the slots. Now use the game to increase revenue. Where has the commitment gone to cancel, without if and without but, gambling? [[Applause from the PD Group]] You have made an unnecessary anti-corruption law and now allow direct trusts without a tender for up to 150,000 euros, retrieving the most effective tool that we had removed, with which the mafia and the corrupt have robbed the citizens of this country for years. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Not to mention the other measures: the abolition of Sistri, which guarantees the traceability of waste transport. In a country where the illicit transport of waste has become the rule, the only existing traceability tool is eliminated. Well, you're doing all this after you explained to us that you were against corruption and morality and that you would change this country. You're changing it for the worse, even from this point of view. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You have explained to us for a long time - but we knew it - that the positive macroeconomic data that have been recorded in recent years did not correspond to an improvement of the concrete living conditions of the people. It is true, it has been so, but today they get worse you have to be aware that people's lives will become much worse and, above all, the lives of the weakest will get worse. It'll get worse in a few months. You have stopped GDP, you have burned billions, endangering our credibility as a country. You have lowered the confidence of consumers and businesses. You have helped to block what - we say it, because it is so - the jobs act had started, that is a great operation on the labour market that has allowed in recent years to increase the employment in the country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Those companies that have come to the square in Lombardy and throughout the North, but not only, tell you that there are no longer with this Government the conditions of credibility to ensure that the enterprises invest in the future and that they resume to hire. You are doing all this humiliating in Parliament; not minorities, not opposition, but Parliament. Mr Bagnai drew, with the usual propaganda narrative, a country devastated and destroyed. He painted the usual catastrophic situation in which he would find the country. I don't want to reply (I don't even have the time), but I want to say one thing: with this maneuver, dear Bagnai, there will be no more social state, but there will be even less. With this maneuver there will be no less poverty, there will be more. There will be no more growth. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The only thing that will bring us this maneuver is certainly less democracy and less future for all. [[Applause from the PD Group]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Berutti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, everything has already been said about this maneuver and the opposite of everything. This is not surprising, since a ghost maneuver remains until the last minute and like all the restless ghosts. It is harmful to the country and it is madness to arrive at the last days of the year with the concrete risk of entering into temporary exercise and not putting the parliamentarians, expression of the people, in condition to be able to analyze and discuss the most important measure for the country. The many general unknowns on this maneuver are accompanied by some negative certainties: this draft budget law provides, in four years, for an increase of 70 billion VAT; there is no increase in minimum pensions and in addition you have penalized pensions above 1,500 gross euros, with the blocking of indexing, treating as pensioners honest retired workers. The so-called citizenship income, the measure so flagshipd by this majority, has small funds and, if it is implemented, in six months, it will distribute ridiculous resources proving itself for what it is: an insult to people, a mockery for the people. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You have conveyed the wrong message of welfare and you will not follow up on what you promised. Among the various negative certainties, there is still the lack of incisiveness on the Bolkestein, a cut to the INAIL awards for the companies very limited and, always on the front companies, the complete lack of a structural intervention of wide scope, that is useful to support in a subsidiary way the conditions useful to create and to give job. This is yet another demonstration that this Government lacks first of all an overall vision of what needs to be done for development. Without business growth it is recession. Where there are no development policies, there are no assumptions for the future and this maneuver of the missed promises declines its flaws in all sectors, including agriculture. The Undersecretary Manzato came to the Commission not to deny what we have all highlighted, namely that the funds allocated are small, but to tell us that it is the intention of the Ministry to start in the future tables of confrontation with all the operators of the various production chains. We are once again in the chapter of hypotheses for the future. No one denies that an intervention of listening and confrontation is useful; however, when one is in the government, one must govern and not procrastinate by continuing to make announcements from permanent electoral campaign. The words of the Undersecretary in the Commission had, then, highlighted how on the agriculture front - I quote - the Government intervenes mainly to address specific issues or particular emergencies. However, what Forza Italia said first and for a long time on this front is not understood. We have been saying with our colleagues since the autumn that we need to act in support of emergencies and damage to agriculture both from the air and from the wildlife point of view. Now, however, as far as we could see, we would have expected the identification of resources; but, at this point, the resources are not there. Unfortunately, this Government continues to make choices at the lowest level or on the Italian side and does not put sufficient resources into the balance sheet on these matches. This against agricultural production, sometimes destroyed, as I said, by bad weather and damage for millions of euros. On this front too, the judgment can only be negative, as well as negative is the judgment on the whole agricultural game, where zero is invested, and we are talking about a pillar of the national economy of capital importance. A sector that offers employment opportunities, development, growth, all words that this Government does not like. A sector that is no longer just work in the fields, but that is supply chain, agri-food, marketing, a world on which we must invest and to which this Government does not offer opportunities. The solution of the problems is postponed and in the present we build highly recessive measures. On concreteness prevails the proclamations to which you can not follow. This maneuver is the litmusol map of the government, where a soul of the then seems to prevail; the idea that nothing should be done: neither support for agriculture nor great works, nor a structural and strategic intervention on the collection and recycling of waste, nor the lowering of direct taxes, nor the flat tax, the flat and unique tax that would serve the country so much. In conclusion, Forza Italia cannot and will not allow this nihilistic vision to prevail and continue to work against the idea of a country of assisted and unhappy degrowth that says no to everything. We want a virtuous and free future, in which excellence is valued, resources are placed in a subsidiary key where necessary and space is given to do, to create, to produce. For you these things are very far away and this budget law bears witness to it. We continue to work for the best country to be given the space it deserves. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u51	Senator Magorno is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u52	Mr President, government gentlemen, fellow senators, a great Calabrian writer, one of the greatest writers in our region, Corrado Alvaro, in the last century used to say that the people of Calabria, the Calabrians want to be spoken. In truth, all peoples want to be spoken, everyone goes in search of a word, but in that historical moment, a difficult moment for the Mezzogiorno of Italy and for our Region, if ever the Mezzogiorno of Italy in recent centuries has experienced easy moments, meant that there were governments that should have spoken differently to the people of the Mezzogiorno and to our Region, to our people. Probably the vote that the Movimento 5 Stars managed to take on March 4 is a vote that is based on the assumption that we were not able to speak to the people of the Mezzogiorno, we had to speak better. Sure, we did something, but we had to do more. The result is that this Government is deaf to the people of the Mezzogiorno, because in this law of instability it has remained deaf to the demands of the people of the Mezzogiorno and has silent with respect to the requests and requests that in a strong way had come out of the ballot boxes of the Mezzogiorno of Italy, from the seats of the Mezzogiorno of Italy. I am referring to two or three specific questions concerning the Mezzogiorno and also my region. He couldn't talk to the Calabrian precarious workers. Behind the initials of the former LSU and the former LPU there are men and women, workers and workers to whom we, in the past central-left governments, have given dignity, men and women who work today, starting the stabilisation process and putting in place resources for extension and especially for derogations. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You who have not listened to them and who have not been able to speak to them, have put in place the resources to keep them until October 2019, assuming that it is possible to stabilize them over the next ten months. You have not been able to speak to the Regions, you have not been able to speak to the municipalities of the Mezzogiorno of Italy and my Region, Calabria. I have read the note of the Calabrian senators who exult for the nine million euro data at Crotone airport in three years. They fail to say, however, that this law of instability has removed EUR 850 million from the Cohesion Fund of the Regions. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Do you have any idea how much less millions of euros will have the Mezzogiorno of Italy and my Region? You have not been able to speak to the small businesses of the Mezzogiorno of Italy and of my Reason, you have not provided any incentive; they will neither be able to invest nor consequently create jobs. This is your law of instability. There are so many reasons why we cannot vote on this law, but there are two more that I would like to stress. This was supposed to be the law of stability of change, and instead it is the law of stability of slipping and shrinking. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You, in this glorious car, have gone to the wall of Europe; you have smashed the machine of this government and you have also created injuries to the country that are very dangerous for what may happen to our economy. It is the law of stability of retreat because you have responded to the strong demand of the youth of the Mezzogiorno and my Region, who wanted to be spoken to, with the income of welfare and not with the income of citizenship, because being citizens for a young person means having the job. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I shall conclude, Mr President. If Corrado Alvaro were still alive, he would tell you that not only did you not know how to speak to the men and women of Southern Italy, but that they were not spoken because you cheated them. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u53	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u54	Mr President, I confess that I am uncomfortable in intervening. Let's say, with a summary, that I speak because I was registered to speak. In fact, the process of this measure, for a senator of first nomination like me, but of long political course, is something incomprehensible, a picture of Magritte. I confess a considerable distraction in not being able in any way to understand what is happening, what we are voting on, what decisions we are making. And I do not feel handicapped in this, because I challenge many of my colleagues in this House to show me the opposite. However, ladies and gentlemen, something has already happened when we voted on the funds for the suburbs. So, in essence, my speech, more than on the substance, which has been widely discussed and will be much better illustrated by my colleagues, starting with Mr De Bertoldi, who followed the whole matter in the Commission, will briefly focus on the method. I am referring to the madness of burning the measures in this way. I am in this House - like all of you - since its establishment, and I can say, without the issue of denial, that I have not been able to go into any of the measures we have fired. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]] It's something that personally makes me uncomfortable, because then when I get out of here someone asks me, and I think it happens to all of you. In short, it is not nice to say: "Let's see what happens" "Let's see what comes out." We will read it when we see it approved. Personally I consider myself a senator, a senator of the Italian Republic, elected in an important college, which is the capital of my Region; I have a very high consideration of my role and - if I may - also of myself. I'm not worth one. Someone in here thinks one's worth one, but sitting in this scranno isn't worth one. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]] Colleagues, each of us, someone deservedly and someone immersively - but this is democracy, of course - is not worth one, but it is worth one for every vote he has recorded; and it is worth one for every instance brought forward by his political side. It's serious. It's important. In institutions, tears, like those that have occurred in these days and like that which has happened today, are wounds that heal badly; they are wounds on which we, with the previous, put salt. Because the former, in the government of the institutions, is a deadly thing and there is never any fund. At worst there is never an end, there is never a bottom; it never bounces from wounds so deep inflicted to the Regulations, at the time, not to mention to compress the times so as to make impossible any kind of debate. I heard from a colleague of the majority, a representative of the government, that there is an excess of democracy but in fact colleagues, that happens when the game works. This attitude is pornographic; it is not a normal story, it is a story that goes to the epilogue, it is a bad film, Mr President. I believe, I hope and I want to be convinced that things like this are no longer happening for the future and that we must not feel the discomfort that I believe we have all felt in these two days. I appeal to the President and the President-in-Office: the decency of this institution lies within each of us and is in the responsibility of each of us. Facing acts knowingly and knowing what we voted when we leave here is the minimum necessary to exercise our role. Thank you, colleagues, and I'm sorry I entertained you more than I deserved. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u55	Senator Bernini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u56	Mr President, you will think that I have spoken and entertained you all too much. That is why, Mr President, I will give you some good news: I have taken three minutes and will only speak for seven minutes. However, I would like to make a few more points, not only on the content of this maneuver, on which my colleagues from Forza Italia and colleagues from the oppositions are widely entertained, but also on the philosophy that this maneuver does not embody. Welcome, in Parliament, to an empty box maneuver, which does not have a polar star and has no idea of a country [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , but that represents only a set of small personal selfishnesss that guard a government contract that represents only a division of power. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] A division of power between two parties that are in government, different, distinct, distant and that have as the only element in common the government contract. We, who truly believe in democracy, believe that when promises are made we must keep them, we have a single valid contract: the contract we entered into with the Italian people on 4 March. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And it's not just our contract; it's a center-right contract, a contract that doesn't include welfare and state parasitism at the expense of poor pensioners who have worked a lifetime to earn 1,300 euros a month, who are vampirized to give citizenship income to the "unemployed." A category, however, which this empty box maneuver does not define; it is a blank standard. We take away - but do we realize? - we take away people who have a pension of 1,300 euros a month, with whom they may have a family [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , the unemployed son, the grandson who goes to university, the wife who does telework because he finds nothing else, we take away this category of people, from these 1,300 euros, the income of citizenship. That is, you are hitting the beating heart of the country, slaughter what is left of Italian welfare. To whose advantage? Of subjects not better identified, who will be holders not of 780 euros (the famous promise, 780 euros for 6 million poor Italians). No. Wanting this government to continue waving the shredded flags of their testimonial measures, the income of citizenship will not be more than 780 euros, but will be 83 euros per month. You don't even shop for a week! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It will be 83 euros per month taken from pensioners who have 1,300 euros of pension each month. It is a thing of extraordinary iniquity and we are terribly angry at it. We can't use other adjectives, we're very angry, we're ashamed to endorse such a thing. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We are also ashamed to be present in this House saying no and no and then no to these measures. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , so an eminent and authoritative representative of this Government, Minister Di Maio, identified a category: fact. Then 780 euros that become 83 euros per month: done. Citizenship income taken from pensioners: fact. 800 million taken from the State Railways and therefore from the commuter trains: done. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Incentives stolen from entrepreneurs, that productive category of artisans, traders and VAT matches that believed in all of us: done. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In short, to use a slogan: more poverty for all. [[The Senators of the FI-BP Group stand up and display signs bearing the words: "+ poverty for all: fact".]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u57	Colleagues, remove those signs. You're from the FI-BP group. Shame! [[Applause from the PD Group]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is At least you, Senator Bernini, are the Parent Company. Don't be the first. (Senators quaestors and parliamentary assistants take care to remove the cartels). The minutes we're missing, I'll take away from the next of your... Senator Bernini, don't put your hands on poor Senator De Poli, congratulations Senator De Poli, Senator Ronzulli, enough. The Forza Italia Group is censored as a whole. Are you happy? [[Comments and ironic applause from the FI-BP Group]] At least there's some reason to rejoice. Do you also want individual measures? Senator Taricco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u58	Mr President, at this point in the debate we would have liked to say that we had finally come to this House with the measure. In fact, we cannot say that and this causes a great bitterness in the heart, both for the method by which we have come so far, and for the merit. As far as the method is concerned, as my colleagues have already said, the role of this institution, the Senate, has been severely trampled on in general over the past fifteen days, and today the picture of this trampling has been completed if necessary. I would ask you to follow me, Mr President, because I believe that the Presidency will have to be very careful, to think a lot, because I dare say that continuous research is a sense of responsibility in order to avoid provisional exercise... [[Brusio from the FI-BP Group desks.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u59	Senator Bernini, please ask your colleagues to let Senator Taricco speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u60	TARICCO (PD). I believe that the Presidency will have to reflect on the fact that responsibility for avoiding the provisional exercise and for the move to move forward I believe that it has risked a great deal to become acquiescence towards the majority and the government. In fact, the prerogatives of the institution, the Senate and each of the senators present have been totally trampled on. I believe that the things that have happened in this House these days cannot be dealt with in a purely formal way. Here, in fact, the dignity of the institution has been trampled on. [[Applause from the PD Group]] However, I believe that the real issue before us has to do with matters of substance and substance. We could have set ourselves in the reasoning that we are here to reflect on what you said in the election campaign and what the government representatives said in the election campaign. We could make the difference between the election campaign, the beginning of the debate on the maneuver and the point where we arrived now. There could be so many speeches, but I believe that the most timely issues are those of merit. I would like to mention three issues which I think are punctual in outlining the profile of how in practice the majority has fallen into the skin of the Italians. The first is the issue of publishing; having effectively suppressed, in the perspective of 2022, all the funds that went to support so much small local publishing, so many small newspapers that represented freedom of thought, with weekly newspapers on the territories, I think it is an act that is commented on by itself. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I believe that it is the figure of the transition between a figure of support for publishing and a figure which represents the choice of those to whom we will be helping. I think this is a characteristic trait. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bernini]] The second question concerns the cancellation of the Ires discount for the third sector. They go to hit relief agencies, foundations, mutual aid societies, social assistance institutions, care and benevolence agencies, religious bodies, autonomous institutions of housing, to make cash; 120 million euros in the first year, which under regime will become 150 million. I think the measure comments on its own. You had presented the maneuver with the letterhead "we will abolish poverty," in fact, go to abolish those who fight poverty. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The third question relates to the announcement of the cut in gold pensions. You said you'd cut the gold pensions. However, reading the economic tables of the technical report, it turns out that the gold pensions cut 140 million a year, while instead the pensions that exceed 1,200-1,300 euros, activating you on indexing, in fact cut, as the technical report says, 415 million a year. It is not a cut in gold pensions, but basically in small and medium-sized pensions. I believe that these three traits photograph for themselves the distance between the things announced and the things that are concretely present in the provision. What worries us most, however, is the general system that concerns the future of the country. Given the situation that the country is experiencing right now, we would have expected to find inside the maneuver, tools to strengthen the confidence of companies, give breath and breath to the horizon they look towards. We thought we would find instruments that would strengthen investment, but instead we found cuts and hijacking of investment resources, abolition of incentives and development tools. We thought of finding tools to strengthen employment, to consolidate the growth of the whole country and instead it is a maneuver mainly dedicated to assistance and which contains a series of truly leaping measures, such as the one that plans to give a piece of land to families who have more than three children. Someone will then explain the reasoning behind this measure. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Then there is a second question that I would like to mention. You've arranged for a pardon on the professionals' private coffers. Beyond the fact that constitutionally it will be necessary to see how the State can intervene on private coffers by providing for a form of pardon, I believe that this measure shouts vengeance. What worries us most, however, is what we leave to the future. We predict in the safeguard clauses that it will cost 23 billion for 2020 and 29 billion for 2021. Leave on the shoulders of future generations an astronomical weight that will compromise any kind of reasoning about the future. I'm closing with a consideration. Everything has been heard in this House: that it would be the responsibility of the European Union and the responsibility of everyone. The other day, in his speech, Senator Romeo said that this maneuver had nothing to do with the European Union and that it was a maneuver that was first written in Italy by Italians. I think Senator Romeo was perfectly right. The European Union has certainly worked so that the balances, sustainability and compromise for the future are reduced, but the political choices of the budget law are yours. You will have to assume full responsibility in front of the country for everything that this will generate. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr President, the thing that hurts me the most is that it could really be an opportunity to bet on the future, on the country's development potential and on young people. Instead, it is a missed opportunity, played totally on the hunt for consensus with small measures, without the ability of a strategic vision. I think this is the biggest damage. It is an extraordinary missed opportunity that will pay the country, but above all our children. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u61	Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u62	Mr President, I would like to start with a number: 12.147,000 are the votes the centre-right took in the elections on 4 March. President, in this Senate - you know better than I do - there are 23 Senators of Forza Italia elected with the majority system and there are 19 of the League elected in the same way. There are 44 people who have taken the votes from all our voters indistinguishably. Of the 118 senators of our groups as a whole, more than 40% - so beyond the statutory quota of 36, while for the proportional quota the percentage is 64 - were elected with the majority system. Then there are others in the South, but having not had the votes of the League, which at the time was almost nonexistent, they stayed at home or others were elected in the proportional system. In any case, we have fought the same battle and our opponents are the ones sitting at the centre and left of this Parliament. This serves to say that we are definitely a political family that has been working for the good of Italians for about twenty-five years now. Can we think of dissolving all this? No, I don't think so. Government with Movimento 5 Stars was a mistake, but not just because we split up. As we have said several times, in fact, it is a damage to the nation. If someone told you you could do it, I think it was wrong. It was serious, indeed, very serious, but not our own mistake. You're the one who did this because you joined. In these months all or almost all of the principles for which we asked our readers to vote on March 4 have been lost from the Government contract to date. The only decent thing is the story about Bolkestein, on which we fought years together and perhaps - since there is the minister Centinario - you could or should have done more, but I understand that this is a bit the appearance of the Bolkestein to 5 Stars. Having to deal with the enemies of the beaches - because the 5 Star Movimento is the enemy of the beaches [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] - He probably couldn't do more. So, I'm telling you, you did a good job. Unfortunately the Italians have taken months to understand it, but they are finally starting to do it: this morning it is reported by all the newspapers that almost six out of ten Italians think this your work is a defeat: I am referring to the government's financial maneuver and everything you have done in these months. If anyone had doubts, in any case, there are the scenes of these two weeks and those of today, between the Commission and Parliament, without having ever voted on an amendment. You have had this section of the Parliament printed on paper, for the Commission and for this House: were you not the environmentalists? [[Applause from Senator Ronzulli]] The House and the Commission, however, have never discussed anything, constantly postponing, from hour to hour, the delivery of a text which, even today, once arrived, you changed after ten minutes, without allowing any of us to discuss the measure. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] , which is incomplete and the result of compromises, which do not go in the direction of the interests of Italians. So the Italians have taken away all doubt about your total inability to rule. So let's go to the numbers, because the numbers are important. Yesterday morning the government told us - or rather, tried to tell us - that in order to enhance the work done it emphasized some measures, which declared to be some of the many contained in this maneuver, which we do not know, since we did not even have time to read the maxi amendment. Allow me, however, to reflect in particular on local authorities. You have taken the credit for resolving the matter of the administration surplus and being able to spend it. Well, if it had not been for the Constitutional Court, that through its own decision, against an unholy choice of a measure issued by the central-left government of a few years ago, which blocked the possibility of the municipalities to spend what their citizens had already paid with taxes, you would never have done all this, because of course it has affected the famous relationship between deficit and GDP. What have you done for municipalities and local authorities? What have you done to allow them to retain the IMU that is paid by families and businesses? Was it not us - and when I speak of us, I am referring to us in Forza Italia and to you, colleagues of the League - who said that taxes paid by a territory should remain on that territory and not enter the cauldron of the State? Is it not you who are threatening a crisis of government if they do not take you to the Council of Ministers to authorize the autonomy of the Northern Regions? None of this! Have we lost our memory? Between the municipal solidarity fund and productive buildings, the money paid each year as IMU by Italian families and companies goes directly into the state cauldron: it is more than 35% of what our citizens pay. Other than one billion euros of new investments for the issue of the administrative surplus. Then there was talk of socialism, but if you said that you had budgeted EUR 440 million for the social and disability issue, you forgot to say that there are more than EUR 200 million that are being drained, with the increase of Ires to non-profit associations for the disabled, which goes from 12 to 24 percent. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] But what are these associations? Who do you think serves the disabled and gives them a chance to have a normal life, if not voluntary associations? We then talked about the flat tax, from 65,000 to 100,000 euros of income. Let me remind you that it is 1.2% of these people, that is, a very small audience, and this certainly does not solve the problems of Italians and businesses. In this maneuver, investments have also been made for the Provinces, those entities that the wicked Delrio law has made a hybrid useless for the territory. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You said that there is EUR 250 million in the streets and schools. There is a document from the Union of Italian Provinces that says that the Provinces need EUR 1.5 billion for investments, roads and schools and EUR 280 million for current expenditure. Do you know the difference between current expenditure and investment? I don't think so. [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, I shall finish by missing many of the things I wanted to say. Let me say one last thing about pensions. To recover 2.2 billion euros and smuggle the cut to gold pensions (which are 24,600 out of a total of 16,100,000 pensioners), you go to remove to those who receive from 650 to 1,600 euros per month a piece of their future, cutting up to 48 percent the increase of their pension for the year 2019. That's a shame. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] And if this is the maneuver of change, we do well to vote against even without having read the maxi amendment. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u63	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government (or at least that remnant in this House of the Executive), if there is a primacy that this House must recognize to the majority and to the current Government is to be champions of contradictions and, perhaps, also of lies. You deserve the laurel for the ability to say one thing and, then, to do exactly the opposite and to camouflage it all with a slimy jelly of lies, a casualness and an arrogance of which, moreover, it is really difficult to find precedents. Today you resort to the parachute of the vote of confidence, masking a strangled debate, never like this time, on a measure - indeed, on the provision - more important that our Republic is called to adopt and that you have not been able to bring to the attention of the two Chambers, just as you should have done since last October 20. Only today, to the results of a fake discussion and a theater, of the Casalini school, designed only to hide the truth and the numbers dictated by the bureaucrats of Brussels (those bureaucrats so much mistreated in the electoral campaign), is shed light on a tapered measure, which needs to be approved by the two Chambers in a handful of days and which is full of overflows. I am thinking of the events of the NCCs and the State property, which will give Italy only other infringement procedures, which will cost other money to the Italians and will not solve the expectations that you have guiltyly fueled. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Here, then, is the recourse to trust, the same confidence that only a few months ago you would have treated as a coup and a method of dictatorship. And then I ask you: what you are appealing to today, by grace, as you call it? How do you define the unprecedented denial of the debate at the budgetary session? What would you have done from these benches, to inverted parts? Perhaps you would have practiced obstructionism screaming, violent and to excess, the same obstructionism that in the previous legislature has given notoriety to most of the exponents of the current Government. You would certainly have occupied the benches of the Presidency and the Government and chanted to the revolution of the people. We don't, we don't. I would like to make clear the difference between you and us: we are another thing for responsibility, sense of institutions and seriousness. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Let's face it, it would have been legitimate to resort to obstruction. There were all the reasons for this both in the Commission and in this House for procedural reasons and - above all - for the pre-conditions of this maneuver, which some rightly claim would paradoxically have made the provisional exercise the lesser evil. You are inadequate and dangerous. [[Applause from the PD Group]] However, we have been able to show a sense of responsibility. We have done so in the last two weeks and - again - in these hours and days, even in view of the evidence that it would not be - and it has not been - possible to discuss anything about what is contained in the most important law of the country. You present to us the maneuver of a king without more crown or scepter; a bill of budget signed by sovereigns without more sovereignty, which - paradoxical among paradoxes - does not entirely take us away from the risk of infringement procedure and, therefore, of a possible new austerity. Of course - and I should like to say this and I am sorry that Mr Tria has gone away again - we were glad that the infringement procedure for excessive deficits had been avoided, at least for the time being. We were never fans of the spread, but favorable to protect the interests of the country. We have, however, come to this point because a river of errors has been committed, which the Government has downloaded on the country and on the credibility of Italy, putting Parliament in the position, in the House, of having to vote a law that was not written and, to the Senate, of having to ask in vain account of numbers and figures that you have stubbornly hidden and denied the discussion. [[Applause from the PD Group]] What your bum had ironized as Santa's letter has become the bitter missive that, by your hand, the European Commission notifys Italy [[Applause from the PD Group]] and that forces you to return to a deficit of 1.8%, with that cut of 0.6 points that, however, in front of a decrease of GDP - I understand that they are not things understandable for everyone - unveils, in economic terms, a significant increase in the weight of the deficit on the country and, in political terms, a reversal never seen; a affirmation of subalternity that only the eyes of propaganda, even of academics lent to propaganda, manage not to see. I would like to ask: were you not the speakers of the opposition times or, just a few months ago, in the electoral campaign, those who beat their fists in Brussels? Those same punches now, though, what do they squeeze? Perhaps they squeeze a handful of flies, to the detriment of an entire country, its future, its business system, the Mezzogiorno. President Conte should have been here again this evening to admit that you were wrong to reckon on the costs of 100 quota and citizenship income, assuming responsibility, because all this has already cost at least 1.5 billion euros, and this amount has been paid in full by Italians, businesses and savers. Of course, we would have expected much more from the people's lawyer: an assault of dignity, an exercise of truth. But no: he also continued, unceasingly, the rhetoric of the Government of change, of the perennial electoral campaign, all in the hands of the Italians. Thus the rewriting done in Brussels gives us a recessive maneuver, in which there are no measures for growth, nor for investments, that penalizes the enterprises, mortifies the South with very heavy cuts to the co-financings on the regional funds, blocks the turnover in the public administration; a maneuver that exposes the propaganda of a income of citizenship and quota 100 of which remains little more than the title and the uncertain joke on the activation times. That's what 11 billion cuts are made in 2019. I repeat what I said yesterday: it screams for revenge at least EUR 700 million of funds for the regions, already allocated to co-finance the European Structural Funds. It's not the country's security! How he screams revenge at the EUR 800 million cut from the reprogramming of the Development and Cohesion Fund. Other than Minister for the South! [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Vitali]] But revenge also screams at the 850 million cut to the remodulation of the national co-financing funds: a real martyrdom, which will weigh at least two and a half billion on the heads of the companies. But you have done even worse: with a scumbag stubbornness, instead of concentrating resources to accompany the timid but clear signs of growth recorded for several quarters and until the start of this Government, what do you do? Design a cut of 410 million euros in order to hit directly the facilities to the enterprises, through which limate the IRAP tax credit and reset totally - I say, reset - that for the purchase of new capital goods. Cut the Ires facilitation funds and then - just to get hurt to the bottom - you produce in a cut to reduce also the allocation of resources for intangible capital. It is a maneuver that is read backwards and that will cause so much damage. (22,01) (Follow STEFANO). With the same contradiction, you have repeatedly stated that you want to increase consumption, that you want to increase domestic demand, which was the basis of your higher growth estimate of GDP. Do you remember all this theater? And then what do you do? You have made it impossible to sterilize the VAT increase clauses and, therefore, VAT from next year could reach 26.5%. It is the highest in Europe: not just me, but the Parliamentary Budget Office still remembers it today. VAT enters the pockets of Italians. VAT cuts notes in the wallet - nothing but chatter. Government members, do you really think you're gonna keep making fun of Italians? It is shameful that you do not feel a sense of shame for what you are doing. Because of you this House will vote for a trust in the dark, on a text born at night and voted at night; a symbolic darkness, almost metaphorical of the abyss that awaits us and to which you are pushing us. "It progresses in the darkness as far as, in vain expected, the trapdoor opens under his feet, he would write a poet. I hope that that trap door won't open completely, that that hole you're digging under our feet doesn't swallow the hope of this country forever. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u65	She's registered to speak Senator Malpezzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u66	Mr President, the Government does not dare to present to the Senate the maxi amendment on the budget law to make it pass quickly and fury with yet another vote of confidence and, finally, to have it ratified in the House without debate and without a thorough examination of the rules. We are ready to fight to prevent this yet another act of arrogance, which deprives Parliament of its legitimate prerogatives. We have already warned the Presidents of the House and Senate and the Presidents of the Budget Commission. If they do not allow us to discuss the text on the subject, we will keep them here until Christmas too. You know, Mr President, I imagine that these words do not sound new to you and that they do not sound new to many of the Members who are present. It was December 18, 2014. This passage comes from Beppe Grillo's blog. This is what you have become: worse than what you despised! [[Applause from the PD Group]] You have done worse: you have shouted, for much but much less, to the exversion, to the coup, to the dictatorship. You assaulted, furious, the government benches. You promised to open Parliament to the citizens and you turned it into an empty shell, mortifying the institutions of this country. You have reduced the sacred place of democracy to irrelevance. You humiliated him and, acting in this way, you humiliated the electoral citizens who gave us the mandate. You humiliated them yourself. You are attacking the Constitution of the Republic. You are also distorting the principle of the distribution of balance between the powers of the State. Today we saw it plastically and so did the citizens from home. You are tourists of democracy, because you do not practice it. You're dangerous. We were elected to read the maneuver, to bring our contribution, to evaluate it with conscience and in the interest of the Italians, even those who elected us, because they did not elect only you. Give it a reason. They've elected us, too. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Leonardo]] You're stopping us. You stopped us and put the gag on Parliament. Mrs Rauti reminded us yesterday that we are here to wait for Godot, as in some sort of absurd comedy. And, in order to trace the literary quotations, I would like to make a suggestion of reading or rereading, assuming that someone else has read it: Saramago's Cecity, and not because someone might think that we are making a maneuver in the dark, as far as it is true, but because blindness is the indifference with which you, fellow Members of Parliament, passively accept this rift that also harms your role, because you did not contribute to the drafting of this maneuver either. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is not the maneuver of the people, it is the maneuver of indifference, of your indifference. But let us get to the point, because I want to tell you why we say no. The maneuver was to be the mirror of your contract, built on the slogans of your election campaign: citizenship income on the one hand, Fornero zero on the other. The majority - and we believe in this - have the burden and the honour of choosing which course to follow. However, you have not even been able to guarantee, to any extent, some of the promises you made in the election campaign - wrong for us. There is no income as you had told it and there is no abolition of Fornero. Rather, there is a theft of pensioners at 1,300 euros and the theft of the illusions of those who expected 780 euros and will receive less than 100 euros, because lies have short legs. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And Di Maio's viral post with the shopping list isn't enough to try to tell a truth that isn't there, because you may be able to do it in 30 years, but luckily you won't be there anymore. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Let me give you some examples of those closest to my heart, taking care of me from a future life, being a teacher. There is nothing of the future in this maneuver, because you have not foreseen anything for school, culture, university, research, digital innovation and training, even if you have the courage to write on the regime veils, which you send around on social media, where you are strong, that you have done full time in schools. [[Applause from the PD Group]] But do you really have the courage to say that with the recruitment of 2,000 teachers you have done full time in schools and solved the problem? Without prejudice to the fact that with the unemployment decree of your minister Di Maio of teachers you have fired 5,000, the balance is still negative; on this you can really put the check. It would take 41,000 teachers to do the real full time. Yet, in the election campaign you talked about investing billions of euros on school: 15 billion, remember? What credibility do you have? On a 27 billion maneuver, you spent 25 million on school. You have cancelled the initial training of teachers, because you do not care that they are prepared, but you are interested in cashing out. So 12 million you put aside. On the other hand, what did Minister Bussetti say? School does what it has. Now put your face in front of this statement; go to the schools and say that they must succeed with what they have. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You don't believe in the human capital of our boys, those who instead of sending to work want to keep nailed to subsidies or couch, as Salvini said. Instead, we must invest in the new generations - we believe in them. With you nothing: school, education and university. In the era of change we talk only about the Christmas crib, the tasks not to be done during the holidays, the unworthy regulations to exclude children from school canteens, the cameras outside the complexes or the drug dogs: beautiful vision that you have of the school. We say no, because you young people don't care about anything. You, in the second oldest country in the world, where youth unemployment is always too high and where the results of learning certify delays to be filled, do not put a euro on the future of young people, but do what may be sadder: bet on their failure and then give it clearly 83 euros of citizenship income. Bravo! Congratulations! [[Applause from the PD Group]] You could have decided to actually overtake, but to invest in school construction: nothing. You could expand the audience of the beneficiaries of the no tax area and lower university fees: nothing. You could still invest in Industry 4.0: cut. You could invest in continuing training: nothing. You could have invested - as you said in this House - in kindergartens: nothing, zero. You could have increased the funds for basic research: nothing. You could invest in skills to cope with the digital revolution: nothing. You could invest in the school-work connection: you cut it. This is your change, that of cuts. Simply clear: cut. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Changing means giving opportunities, building the future, enhancing our extraordinary heritage. What are you doing? Cut also on the culture that with you is destined to a slow and inexorable extinction: cuts and reductions indiscriminately affect bookstores, publishing houses, cinemas, autonomous museums and the culture bonus for eighteen years old. The whole series of heavy scissors will leave the unequivocal mark of your choices. But you feed on the degradation, which is the gasoline of your consent, and then why should you fight it? In addition to mortifying culture, you have threatened and attacked freedom of the press and journalists, aware that freedom of the press is one of the fundamental principles of democratic life. [[Applause from the PD Group]] But for you democracy is the useless harp, the annoyance, the obstacle between you and the people. Casaleggio taught you this: he told you that Parliament is useless, you don't need it, we don't need it. You bragged about putting 60 million on university and research. Do you know what they're worth in the 27 billion? It is worth only the 40 million increase in the ordinary funding fund, which the Minister of Labour and Economic Development is proud of without shame, and it is a mockery of the resources that the university system needs. [[Senator Pacific's comments.]] To give you an idea of the orders of magnitude, just think that a single research project for a university can be worth more than 10 million. At most, you may have valued 2.5. Blocked recruitment for an indefinite period in universities as well. And this affects that age group between thirty and thirty-five years prepared, competent and internationally contendable, that we risk losing. This - yours - is brain drain induction. You guys get them out of here. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Comments from the M5S Group]] The few funds allocated to universities will not go to finance the brilliant ideas of our researchers.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u67	Conclude, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u68	MALPEZZI (PD). I remember that the previous government, thanks to Minister Fedeli, had allocated 400 million euros to basic research with the PRIN 2017 call. Nothing's come from this government yet. You, who were to abolish poverty, have abolished the future and hope. The country - rest assured - will not forgive you. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u69	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening with this maneuver is something that has no precedent in the history of the Republic: we must perhaps go back even to the days of ancient Rome - when Caligula appointed Senator his horse - to trace such a delegitimation of Parliament, or even to Chavez's Venezuela in order to see a manipulation of public opinion, a populist demagogy that mocks the citizens, what is the strategy put in place by this Government. As long as this House, at least on paper, continues to count on something, we have a duty to denounce the disaster that is taking place behind the Italians. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You have raised the level of confrontation with Europe, defending unsustainable measures, such as the income of citizenship and quota 100. You burned billions, got the spread pierced. You wrote a maneuver without investment, but full of election ads. You've altered your growth estimates. You brought Italy to the brink of infringement proceedings. You have engaged in a struggle of principle, then - after for months they had invited you to back down, after talking about sovereignism, Italy to the Italians, invoked strong powers that stand against the country - raise your hands and hand over the fate of the Italian people to Brussels, which has corrected the task of the dumb pupil, leaving within some measure commercial worthy to the maximum of an electoral manifesto. Citizenship income rather than employment-enhancing measures: a measure that will simply increase undeclared work and weigh on the state's coffers. The flat tax? Forgotten, replaced by a banal extension of the flat-rate scheme. I'll tell you a secret: tax-freeing creates employment. Work, not subsidies, is the main tool for combating poverty, which Deputy Minister Di Maio claims to have abolished. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You, on the other hand, have abolished the job. You have succeeded in something incredible: you have betrayed entrepreneurs, you have betrayed the middle class and even those who live below the poverty line. Do we want to talk about pensions? You said you'd help pensioners. You've been smashing propaganda about golden pensions, but then you've blocked the indexing of those above 1,500 euros. And above all, you have introduced 100 quota, but in the maneuver you have blocked recruitment in the public administration throughout 2019. You have even introduced a blockage of recruitment into universities, leaving on foot young researchers who do so much for this country. Do you want to explain how the retired workers will be replaced, if they are blocked in fact and beyond words, recruitment, in sectors like universities, which are the sap in which tomorrow's ruling class grows and forms? Then we want to remember how you attacked the press - as was said earlier - punished with cuts in publishing, guilty of telling the truth to the citizens you tried to make fun of, telling of a deficit at 2.04 instead of 2.4, hoping that they would not notice that zero too much? And a tale of which, as I learn from the press, Prime Minister Conte's spokesman, Casalino, still boasts; he's smearing propaganda, which from the web, in which daily spreading fake news, you have transported to the rooms of the institutions. Propaganda didn't spare it even to the earthquake victims, promising them to reduce the due tributes by 40% - as did the Berlusconi Government at the 2009 earthquake in L'Aquila - rejecting my amendments that demanded the same treatment for the citizens of the territories affected by the following earthquake of 2016-2017, in fact creating a difference of treatment between the citizens of L'Aquila and those, for example, of other Regions and other Provinces of Central Italy. And it's not fair. And now you ask us not only to approve your maneuver, but also to give confidence to this Government; a government that, until now, has produced only devastating measures for the country, starting from the decree of dignity, which has helped to reduce jobs again and to bring to knees the enterprises, already prostrate, with the madness of Sunday closures. To continue then with the absolute madness of the decree that you have called scrambled, another measure worthy of the Venezuela of Maduro that so much likes the Movimento 5 Stars. I would suggest that you read the Greek report on Italy: the group of states against corruption asks us to intervene on the internal regulations of the groups in Parliament. A mention, perhaps, of those groups that, in violation of the Constitution, introduce the obligation of imperative mandate, imposing criminal-swinding charges on those Members who disagree with their own party? Your measure, also rejected by the Supreme Council of the judiciary, on the contrary, does not intervene on all this, limiting itself to transforming public offices into places of spy, envy and terror, abolishing the prescription and introducing endless trials, which violate the rules on the reasonable duration of the process contained in Article 6 of the ECHR and Article 111 of our Constitution, and which do not care about the principle enshrined in the Charter of a penalty that must instead aim to re-education the condemned. You talking about cutting waste, do you have any idea how much money the state will have to spend, under Pinto law, to compensate the victims of too long trials? No, I don't think you have any idea about this. For all this and much more, we will vote no to this manoeuvre, nor will we give this Government confidence. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Collina]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u71	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u72	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would be tempted to enter into the method and substance of this maneuver, which I would call soulless. I have already done so yesterday and I will not do so with this speech. My colleagues have done so before me and they will do so after that. On the other hand, in a constructive but also fought spirit, and in a spirit of patriotic opposition, I want to enter into a specific merit, indeed in two. I am referring to paragraph 326 of the Government's attention, in which, within the framework of the provisions on compensation for victims of violent intentional crimes, with reference law, we talk about compensation paid to the surviving spouse. I would ask you to make a specific point on this point, which is as follows: "where the spouse has not caused or helped to cause the death of the victim." [[Applause from the FdI and Misto-Leu Groups.]] Otherwise we, with this simple but grave forgetfulness, will go to legitimize cases that the chronicle has returned, paradoxical but that have occurred, of murderers who, released, have been able to enjoy the reversibility of the pension of their wife or partner killed. These are not details and then please amend this part. But that's not all I want to do. There is another point on which I want and I feel I have to speak in this House. I refer to paragraph 255 concerning the increase in the Fund for the victims of domestic violence to a total of 5 million. It is certainly good to increase the Fund, but let me say, without wishing to argue on this matter, that it is not spared, however, on orphans of feminicide. You yourself had imagined an increase of 12 million euros, while the measure envisages 5. I also want to say that in the Budget Committee in the House you rejected an amendment proposing 12 million increase. Here in the Senate Budget Committee you rejected our amendment. You have taken it back, rejected ours and made it yours, but you have dramatically reduced the figures, because you have dropped from 12 million to 5 million. The request was 2 million for scholarships and training activities (and it remained), and still 10 million for those foster families of orphans of feminicide, i.e. for those relatives, in most cases grandparents, who raise children who were killed by their mother. We are talking about women killed in most cases by their husbands, or by their partners or comrades, and almost always the perpetrators of the murder are the fathers of the same children. To the families of those children - I remember that they are not numbers but orphans of feminicide, children to whom the mother was killed - families who assist, guide and grow them, with the difficulty that all this entails, this government decides to give 5 million euros. And then I say, if you've found funds for the sofa professionals, if you've invested so much and yelled at citizenship income, some extra money for the feminicide orphans you had to and you could find it. Since mathematics is not an opinion - and politics must also reason in terms of mathematics - and since the orphans of feminicide are less than 2,000, if you divide the sums that you have allocated for the number of orphans, you will understand that it is really and shamefully few. You don't save on the orphans of feminicide, you don't save on the children, you don't finance the divanists to the detriment of the orphans of feminicide! [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] That's the point. You must remember that. And you do this at a time when violence and murders of women increase: 149 women killed in 2016 (51 percent had children), 123 women killed in 2017 (54 percent had children), 106 women killed in the first ten months of 2018, 3,100 women killed leaving children from 2000 to today. And then these collateral victims must be given greater support by the Government, with a sense of responsibility. To those 3 billion allocated by the previous government you have added only 5 million: it is an electoral ad... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u73	Senator Rauti, I gave you an extra few minutes, but I really can't make a showy exception for you. Thank you. In any case, your speech has touched everyone's heart and, if I may say so, I give you my personal solidarity. He's enlisted to speak Senator Moles. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u74	Mr President, the shameful process of this maneuver has actually been told by many, perhaps so many, people. Finally it seems that the maneuver has been spotted and maybe someone has read it. I just read a post from Minister Toninelli, who says they're working day and night. I didn't see Minister Toninelli, but maybe he's walking on the bridge in Messina. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Comments of Senator Bellanova]] I have actually questioned the meaning of my speech, and I have concluded that it can only be, Mr President, an intervention by itself and perhaps useless testimony, because they will not listen to it and you will not listen to it. It is as if the passage to the Senate of this maxi amendment, decided by a few, indeed very few, was just an annoying formality. One person very dear to me told me yesterday what would happen if all this had happened in his company. Well: if anything happened in any private company what happened with the financial maneuver, many heads would have been rightly cut off, for obvious and manifest incompetence and bad faith. There are those who, on the other hand, think they can still play with the state budget as with the bullet box, play with the savings of the Italians to sound of posts and declarations like fireworks; and maybe they laugh even over it with arrogance. I've never seen a cobblestone like this. TAV yes, no, maybe we'll suspend it. There's money, 9 billion, 18, and that's 37, and that's a bingo. We are going to break Europe's back, Europe is alive, we are going to call Europe later, who cares about Europe, tonight at dinner from Europe. And again: no euro, live the euro. The Ilva closes it, maybe I'll reopen it, great success for Ilva. They didn't, Fornero maybe, Fornero maybe a little. 2.4 yes, 2.4 maybe, whatever, let's do 2.04. Children do not need vaccines; transport does not need infrastructure; the unemployed do not need to create jobs; they do not need competence to be a minister. To the most willing of the 5 Star Ministers I would propose three tracks. Contemporary history: who was Commissioner Calabresi? Geography: is there a tunnel at the Brenner? Economy: how is GDP calculated? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Again: Maio and the conspiracy of the hand? Done. Virginia Rays and the Conspiracy of Refrigerators: done. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Toninelli Minister: done. Knowing all about the facts of other people's fathers, but pretending that you don't know anything about what your father did? Done. Do citizens need to be informed at 370 degrees? Done. Bring Juncker breakfast and coffee: done. Deficit lies from 2.4 to 2.04: done. Lies on GDP growth from 1.5 to 1%: done. Well done. I see you've learned Di Maio's lesson. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And again: swindle on the income of citizenship, from 780 to 83 euros monthly; no payment of the debts of the public administration; block of the indexation of the pensions from 1.500 euros; via flat tax, VAT in two years to 26.5%; canceled the investments for railways and yards; South abandoned; reduced credit imposed; military stagebuchi, and a colleague yesterday said that it has passed from the assault troops to the asphalt troops; block of public hiring; massacred the savings of the Italians and unsold BTPs; ecotax not only on the SUVs; cuts and gags to the publishing industry; Italy in recession: done? Done! To give an illusion of citizenship income kill the middle class; to finance your electoral clientelism kill all Italians. You, the new, the different, those who were not chaste, those who have been screaming for years of respect for Parliament, competence, meritocracy and preparation, have done worse than Monti and Renzi [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Apotheosis of fancazzism elected to social philosophy; your belief is the philosophy of failure, the creed of the ignorant, the gospel of envy; your intrinsic characteristic is the sharing of poverty. Therefore, vote on this maneuver written by others and then, after the approval of the maneuver against the people, exult gladly and you can say: done! Credibility, ladies and gentlemen 5 Stars, is like virginity: difficult to maintain, easy to lose, impossible to recover, and you have lost it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Trust: the one who puts it least deserves it and you do not deserve it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u75	He's enlisted to speak Senator Laniece. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u76	Mr President, the important delays we have seen here in the Senate on the timing, but also the criticisms of the way in which the state's economic manoeuvre is approved have already been the subject of speeches by many colleagues and colleagues who have spoken before and this evening. Surely the causes are to be identified in all the political and technical steps of a new economic maneuver carried out in the past months in a very muscular and intransigent way. There have certainly been choices of break-up, such as citizenship income and the 100 percentage on pensions, which I personally would like to reserve the right to consider in a few months' time to see the real impact on citizens. It is therefore understandable that all this has led to delays, particularly in connection with the passages in interlocutions in relations with the European Union. However, I believe that the main cause of the considerable delay and general uncertainty of the last few days is to be identified in the relations between two majority parties. Perhaps now the knots come to the comb and the cuts planned to change the maneuver were the object of the long fight. A theme - for example - is that of the autonomy of the two great Regions of the North, Veneto and Lombardy, and related financial burdens I think has been one of the nodes to be dissolved, an argument that we autonomousists follow carefully. However, in turn, I must stress that the possibility has been denied to all senators of being able to contribute to the improvement of this maneuver. There have been no votes in these weeks, no substantive debate on any subject: nothing at all. The Parliament of the Republic has been - I regret to say - relegated to mere formal passage and this is very serious. Having said that, I would like to enter into the substance of this draft budget law. The first thing that I would like to stress as a member of a Parliamentary Group representing the autonomous Alpine regions and, therefore, the mountain is the poor consideration of the policies linked to it. It is known to all how the mountain environment is wonderful, but in some ways also very demanding, for those who want to live there dignifiedly. I, then, and my colleagues in the Group, have tried to propose amendments which would transpose the local authorities, for example, represented by tourism professionals, high-mountain workers and farmers, in order to introduce improvements that would better qualify the maneuver. I am talking about tax reductions for tourism companies, such as those relating to the recruitment of permanent and seasonal staff, capital goods and Rai fees. I am also talking about relaunching thermal baths through cross-border agreements to relaunch health tourism linked to it. Unfortunately there are no specific points on mountain agriculture in the maneuver and I remember how last year, at the initiative of our Group, more than € 4 million were allocated to finance support for high-mountain agro-pastoral activity. Ours is a heroic agriculture that deserves special attention and which, however, with great regret, I do not find in the maneuver. There is also no trace of the desire to recognise the usual nature of the activities of mountain workers: mountain guides, park guards, ski lift workers and ski instructors, to name but a few, which, precisely because of constant exposure to rigid climates, deserve a consideration from the pension point of view. Nor is there any trace of my finding of an exemption from motorway tolls for fire brigades and civil protection volunteers in their rescue functions. In the productive activities and in that of renewable energies it is still regrettable to note the lack of attention on the part of the Government towards hydroelectric production, the clean energy that represents one of the jewels of our mountain reality. I very much hope in a change of attitude of the majority towards such a strategic sector for all the regions of the Alps and I know that in these days there is an arm wrestle with the Regions and the Government on this issue. Finally, we have tried to propose the issue of the modernisation of the Aosta-Turin railway line, the problems of the Chivasso bezel, electrification, asking for specific funding. Unfortunately, none of this has been incorporated into the maxi amendment, but the most regrettable thing is that nothing has even been discussed. And so, for mountain policies there is no particular place in the government's thoughts. I insist on the policies of the mountain territories because if we who live in the Alpine regions do not have particular tools from the normative and economic point of view, we cannot think of maintaining the services to the person, the schools, the hospitals, the micro communities for the elderly and the clinicians, in our beautiful valleys, often difficult to live, that deserve a particular effort from the administrative and political point of view in order to be able to implement all the necessary works. It is precisely in this perspective that I would also like to stress that in the maneuver there is also the financial economic agreement that the Autonomous Region Valle d'Aosta signed with the Government about a month ago. This is a significant step which is added to the agreements signed in past legislation and with recent financial instruments, which helps to give more tranquillity to local authorities and the Autonomous Region in building their budget. In this agreement the most important part is the closure of the disputes in existence, although often the figures contained and the economic return for the Valle d'Aosta appear downwards and under expectations. This is to make it clear how difficult it is to deal with these issues with government bodies. In conclusion, to reiterate in my turn and, unfortunately, the de facto exclusion of the Senate and Parliament in the process of approving this draft budget law and the mortification of its constitutional prerogatives, I can only express a feeling of general concern about the financial maneuver, which contains many suspended questions, but above all a strong perplexity about the methods that the Government wanted to follow in this delicate and important phase of our country's life. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u77	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u78	Mr President, after abolishing poverty, sweeping the corrupt, celebrating on the balconies, prolonged trials for life, simulated attacks suffered, made havoc of grammar, mocked the knowledge, condoned themselves and friends, announced biblical trade closures, imagined festive children playing in the emergency lanes of the viaducts, promised the money of those who pay taxes and of those who have a pension of 1,100 euros without implementation, high spread, shot down the stock exchange, waged war on Europe, burned 300 billion wealth, taxed companies and cars, they said they had wrong, recanted everything, even bad. Health care is the great absentee and what little there is is done badly and with few resources not even certain. Looks like the three-card game about how much there is for health care. There will be a reduction in the waiting time for health benefits. EUR 150 million is earmarked for the implementation and modernisation of technological infrastructures. Certainly they are to be implemented, but perhaps before it was necessary to think of training the staff that should use them, to think that all the centers could be equipped with broadband and to cyber security, problem not to be underestimated. Above all, it was necessary to implement the personnel that should help for diagnostic performance and think about the under-use of technical-diagnostic equipment. Perhaps the minister does not know that he should receive a report every year to go deeper into the reasons why there are times of Biblical waiting for a CT scan or MRI. For the contractual renewal and the unblocking of turnover practically everything is entrusted to the virtuous Regions, as for many other topics. Don't tell me the usual thing about the virtuous regions because we know perfectly - complaining about the health tourism of the Southern regions, which is shameful - that a person who gets sick in the South has about three years of life less than people living in the regions of the Centre-North, but it is also true that the expenses of those who, for example, leave Calabria to take care of the North are paid by the Lombard citizens because Calabria has 400 million debt that it will never give. Health workers remain cut off from the funds allocated for contractual renewals and we know how necessary this is, especially for primary care professionals, trained in the management of chronic, complexity, attentive to health and community. Without a renewal and improvement in the training of family doctors it is not possible to implement what is also laid down in the simplification decree. Let's talk about health care. I very much appreciate the professionalism of the undersecretary Garavaglia and I am sorry for how much he has to suffer. 4 billion has been allocated over 12 years, from 2021 to 2032. But the ants in the hospitals are now, they don't wait for 2021. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Comments of the Undersecretary Garavaglia]] Let's not talk about the usual absences. We have the new LEAs and tariff nomenclatures. The nomenclators do not correspond to a column with the telephone numbers of people, but to medical devices implanted on people, to the prostheses that people have to buy themselves because the nomenclator is obsolete, with old devices, malformed and dangerous, but they are still implanted, for saving reasons, on patients. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] As for the superticket, the first thing Minister Grillo would have wanted to do was to abolish it. Now he said that this year cannot be done, but he confides, as usual, in the Regions. On the other hand, he trusts in the Regions for many other things, such as disability. As for the Fund for innovative cancer medicines - and we are not talking about research funds, which have disappeared - you realize that there are patients waiting, with the hope of being able to receive a cure thanks to this type of medication, which would also save the National Health Service a lot of money, as well as giving them a much better quality of life, because there would be no complications that chronic cancer diseases face. Will you tell us clearly how much money this is and how it will be used? As far as support for disabled people is concerned, we have seen that support for the family should have been one of the government's priorities, but we have also seen how resources are broken and we do not know how. The Forza Italia Group, with many amendments - even with zero-cost amendments, which you have refused - has tried to remedy the mistakes made. We are not talking about the orphans' fund, which Mrs Rauti has already mentioned. I just remember that you're putting on a misery and maybe it's those same grandparents that you even cut your pension from 1,100 euros a month. On the other hand, I see that there are EUR 6 million allocated to give social integration to disabled people. It is a subject that I care about very much, a pity that they are given to implement the teaching of sign language. It seems to me to be going back to the last legislature, when the Renzi Government allocated a million euros, in the so-called decree Mezzogiorno, in support of an institution for hearing disabilities in Palermo which had been closed twenty-two years ago.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u79	Senator Rizzotti, begin to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u80	Mr Rizzotti (FI-BP). I should like to conclude by saying that, before giving EUR 6 million, which may go to the Deaf National Agency, which is responsible for the training of hearing disabled people, since you are right to be transparent, as we are, you could have asked for the 16 million euros that have disappeared from the budget of the Deaf National Agency. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In the meantime, however, EUR 6 million is allocated there. I therefore believe that to the detriment of not having understood our proposals, the Government has added a mockery: in addition to the social butchery, you have also made a stew in the area of health. I'd say you should be ashamed. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u81	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u82	Mr President, I have read the text of the maxi amendment and I have also made a lot of ears on the pages, to highlight passages that I will not be able to talk about in the minutes at my disposal. However, I would like to begin my speech by reading paragraph 64, in which a multi-annual fund is established, with so many beautiful hundreds of millions allocated, for the relaunch of the investments of the territorial authorities. This paragraph refers to paragraph 297, to be precise, in which, however, part of what is allocated in paragraph 64 is definanced. Then refer also to paragraph 487, which contains a further definancing. So, in the end, from reading all these paragraphs, it turns out that this fund is fully definanced in other paragraphs. We waited 20 days to get to read this stuff here. [[Applause from Senators Mirabelli and Pichetto Fratin]] Secondly, always for those who want to go and look at the text exactly and do not trust the things said, there is the chapter on pensions and in particular on the blocking of the revaluation of pensions, from paragraph 142- bis onwards. This rule states that for pensions exceeding three times the gross minimum - this is 1,500 euro gross monthly - there is a partial or even total blockage of revaluations. Anyone want to tell me these are privileged pensions? See that inside this audience there are people who have retired with the Fornero law and forty-two years of contributions, to whom the revaluation is also blocked. These are people who take 1,200 or 1,300 euros per month of pension that are blocked by the revaluation. This is EUR 400 million in revenue, while for platinum pensions, which have now become platinum, there are 140 million. And what are these pensions made of? Coal? Let's go ahead and reflect on the xylella emergency, great battlehorse. I wonder if sometimes you look at exactly what is being voted on. Amendment 374- bis provides for the listing of monumental olive trees, except those in the quarantine zone, which are subject to rooting. Practically, all the monumental hundred-year-old olive trees are doomed and there is no longer the protection that existed before, because outside the land register they died, they no longer exist. At the same time a million euros is allocated - it is true, it is little, but it is the principle that counts - for the replantation, in the areas where you have rooted olive trees with the bacterium xylella, of tolerant varieties, not immune (remember that tolerant means that you can be vehicle of the infection). So what do we do? Do we shave trees that can infect and put others that can infect in the same way, also giving money? What is the logic of the operation? I'll move on to the last theme. Incentives and disincentives are provided for motor vehicles. In particular, we want to discourage polluting vehicles. We do not know why, but diesel cars that run 23 kilometers with a liter are bad, while large polluting vehicles such as trucks are not bad: 15,000 cubic centimeters, double turbo, 1.5 kilometers with a liter. Finally, incentives are provided for the purchase of hybrid vehicles. The same Toyota said that the hybrid is a sòla, that they introduced it only for commercial reasons and that they no longer intend to continue on this road. And we want to give incentives up to 3,000 euros to buy something that the builder said was a crap? Colleagues, I would think about it before we include these provisions in a budget law. You do it. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, PD and FI-BP]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u83	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u84	Mr President, this maneuver wanted to go back to history. I believe that for two reasons it will succeed. Gentlemen of the Government, I am quite old in this House, as I have been part of it for almost fifteen years and, before, I was the collaborator of a President of the Senate. I have therefore seen the Rules of Procedure being enforced and, at times, things that are not acceptable from an ethical point of view. In the last parliamentary term, there was even confidence in measures relating to conscience. However, I would point out to you that we are talking here about the budget law. Anyone who knows the theory of representation - certainly Minister Tria is among them - knows that it is the core of democracy, because for the Anglo-Saxons, - those who invented parliamentarism, - there is no possibility of taxation without representation: no taxation without representation. The fact that we have not discussed the maneuver in this House, nor in the Commission, and that we have today forced the debate to take place at a later time, will certainly not affect the polls, because such questions of method do not really affect the citizens, especially at this time. However, it is a heavy sneak for the theory of representation and democracy. What representatives have you discussed this maneuver with? Have you done this with the representatives of the people in this House? Have you done this with the members of the Budget Committee? Perhaps you have done so within your Government; not even with the members of the same majority and not even with all the members of your Government. For a paradoxical fact, perhaps the people with whom you have discussed this maneuver most and with whom you have faced the most are those European summits against which you should have demonstrated your strength. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] I ask you: but why should a part of Italian citizens feel represented in some time when the effects of this manoeuvre will be clarified? Why, for example, should the citizens of L'Aquila be represented, to whom you have denied some amendments that did not involve expenditure and others that had cover? When I asked the Commissioner for it, I was told that it was a mistake of the Accounting Office: the funds were there and there will be. Why didn't that mistake come out? Because there was no place of confrontation. Your confrontation was consumed entirely with respect to the ideological proposal that enclosed your maneuver, the one for which not long ago you looked out from the balcony of Palazzo Chigi; it was an exclusive confrontation with that Europe that you would have wanted to punish and from which you would have wanted to emancipate. If we wanted to stop at the slogans, we could say that yours was the most pro-European maneuver ever seen in this House. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Not only because the privileged confrontation was with those summits, but also because you carried out - excuse me - a French escape and a Spanish retreat. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] If you had listened at first to some right remarks from Minister Tria, you probably wouldn't have found yourself in this embarrassment. Dear friends, if there is a lesson to be learned from all this, it is that sovereignty is not an article of faith; it is not even an ideological claim. Read Machiavelli again: all in all, your President-in-Office of the Council has acted pragmatically, like his friends farmers in the province of Foggia, with that culture firmly pragmatic, and probably did well in the end. If he had listened also to the chancellor of his adoptive city, he would have understood that sovereignty in the end is a relationship of force, and that the forces must be contemporaneous; that Italy cannot behave like Trump's America and not even like other nations. Italy, in fact, is structurally weaker; it is not your responsibility and it is not the responsibility of this Government: your responsibility is that of not wanting to see it and, for an ideological trait, of having made Italy even weaker. Today, in fact, on our heads weigh like a cleaver those clauses that, if they were to take off, would result in a national catastrophe. And you know that very well. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I followed - because I always follow him and he says intelligent things - undersecretary Garavaglia in his speech. He spoke about the fight against bureaucracy, about the money that will be unlocked, about all the potential productive resources that this maneuver puts in motion. Too bad he referred to a single plate of the balance; he knows perfectly well the other dish, the one in which there is the income of citizenship, the one in which there are rules on pensions that can also respond to rules of equity, but that are not feasible in the situation of weakness of our country. And he knows perfectly well that that unproductive expenditure will not allow the necessary growth so that our country does not go into recession, and he knows perfectly well that those clauses are destined to become reality. Your sin is to have made Italy weaker and perhaps even more divided, because this maneuver divides even more the North from the South and divides even more the inner areas, especially those of the Southern Apennines, from the coastal zones. You proposed the Government of Change. With this maneuver you will probably be the first to be aware that in a few months it will be necessary to change government. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We hope that this can happen through the rules of representative democracy or, perhaps, even with an early election, and not through a new swerve of sovereignty, because some foreigners are called here to repair the damage you have done for a purely ideological proposal, which has no contact with reality. Congratulations! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u85	Senator Zanda is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u86	Mr President, although it has been clear for several weeks that the government has been consuming a huge parliamentary scandal, I did not think I would intervene in this debate. I've changed my mind about what I've heard in the general discussion and what I've seen in the last few hours of this affair. I believe that everyone here in this House has felt a feeling of fear for the future, an awareness that our destinies are in the hands of those who regard the rules of the State and Europe as two annoying obstacles to be overcome. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is the great political issue that is destroying the future of our country. Italy is governed by forces that do not believe in the state and do not believe in Europe. And if, in the end, Di Maio and Salvini have given in, certainly they have not done so in a Europeanist spirit, but in fear of the consequences that their irresponsibility was, and is still, exposing Italy. Even in the interventions of the majority senators, purified by the laudatory tones to which they are obliged, I have perceived anxiety and great uncertainty. Even the strong tones of Senators Bagnai and Bottici, even the broken cries of Senators Romeo and Patuanelli hid the discomfort of those who are called to defend a cause that can be indefensible. But I feel a new political element in the air, Mr President, because many senators of the majority are also aware of the cul de sac in which the Government has put Italy. They also know that, in the coming months, then throughout 2019 and after for the whole years 2020 and 2021, for Italy every day will be very hard, always with the sword of Damocles European on the head, always struggling with the controls and the very serious financial conditions that we have been subjected in exchange for the missed sanctions. A peace of Pirro that the Italians will pay very dearly. Italy has shown arrogance with Europe, has insulted the Commission, has preached an eunuch sovereignism and, as a result, has been put on probation, not only by the Commission, but also by all, just all, the nations of the European Union, including Orban, including Visegrad, including the Hanseatic League. This year, neither the Commissions nor the Senate Assembly have been able, I do not say vote or examine, but I do not even read the draft budget law and I myself am now intervening without knowing in detail the text. That is why I am not talking about the merits of the measures, but only about the political dimension of the betrayal of democracy that is taking place. I am afraid - and I am serious to say this - that not even most of the Ministers and Subsecretaries, certainly excluding Minister Tria and Undersecretary Garavaglia, were able to read the maneuver, a text that arrived at the Senate two hours ago to be voted with confidence in just over an hour. I turn to the Senators of the 5 Star Movement and the League who were in the Senate in the last legislature: I am sure they remember the screams, the insults, the overheated climate, the cartels, the invasions of the hemicycle and even the occupation of the benches of the Government, with which many times they themselves protested against a majority that in the past five years had never allowed themselves to mortify and offend Parliament. Those senators, yesterday in opposition, today in the majority, remember all this. They certainly remember this and, knowing many of them, I am sure that they feel the weight not only of the contradictions to which they are forced, but also of the sidereal distance that separates their electoral promises from the policies that Salvini and Di Maio force them to vote. In a few hours the budget law will return to the House. Members of the majority will be forced to approve it with confidence, to adopt a text totally different from the one they voted a month ago. After a few weeks, two votes of confidence in the same bill, but with two different texts. And if you think about it with serenity, colleagues in the majority, it is an incredible situation; in a Parliament, like ours, where the regulations do not allow us to repeat the vote even on an amendment approved by mistake, it may happen that reality surpasses fantasy. Today it happens that a bill is completely rewritten and re-voted with confidence after a few days. I am sure that those Members who will be called upon to give two votes of confidence on two different texts will realize that they have been used, that they have not counted anything and that they will obey characters without balance, without experience and without scruples. Here, observing the senators of the majority, interpreting their silences, the rhetoric of their interventions in support of the Government and their visible discomfort, one can begin to see among them some political cracks, signs of anxiety and the worry of not being able to do it. This unfortunate budget law will be passed. Italy will avoid the provisional exercise, but the trauma of these days will have significant political effects, Minister, especially in the cohesion of the Movimento 5 Stars and League Groups. Politically, what has happened these days puts the majority on an inclined plane, marks the beginning of a process of decline, will open in the Lega Parliamentary Groups and 5 Stars heated internal debates, will deepen the groove between the two parties and will force the Government to make more explicit the real project that this majority intends to propose to Italy. It is on the subversive nature of this project that no negotiation is possible with the Democratic Party. Last night, at the heart of Senator Bonino's beautiful speech, there was a denunciation of the scandal of a majority that did not miss an opportunity to weaken our parliamentary democracy. I very much appreciate the intervention of Senator Bonino, but I must tell you with sincerity that the shit that Government and Parliament are making of democracy did not surprise me at all: I have already said it many times and I want to repeat it. In the direct democracy project that is at the heart of the government programme (a little while ago there was a minister here who has precisely this task), Parliament is an obstacle that must first be weakened and then abolished. Senator Bernini remembered that Grillo said: We will open Parliament as a box of tuna. I find nothing to laugh at in this statement, because what else does it mean, as has been said, that when there is a referendum per week the Movimento 5 Stars can also melt because it has achieved its objective? And what does it mean - and this has been said too - that in ten years' time we will be able to abolish the same Parliament that has become useless? What does the President-in-Office mean when he complains that he cannot control Parliament? What do the continuous attacks of the two Vice Presidents of the Council mean on the judiciary, the Bank of Italy, the leaders of the Ministry of Economy, the organizations of workers and entrepreneurs, voluntary associations, the free press? Senators, everything has been clearly said and none of us will be allowed to say: I didn't know, I didn't understand. The truth is that the direct democracy that the Pentalegist majority wants to impose on Italy [[The microphone starts flashing]] - give me a minute, President - instead of parliamentary democracy, it does not tolerate intermediate bodies or balance of powers; it provides that in the end only two levels can survive: the people and the leaders. Here, this is the regime they want for Italy and to which you can give only one possible name: peronism (peronism in Salvini sauce, of course; peronism in Di Maio sauce). I shall conclude, Mr President, by appealing to the President of the Senate and to the President of the House, so I would ask you to act as a liaison. In the face of the ruin of Parliament's honour of which this draft budget law is only the last act, the presidencies of the Assemblies can no longer ignore anything, and I must frankly say to the President of the Senate that his call last night must be appreciated, but it is not enough: the wound is too deep for it to end like this. I respect the President of the Senate and I know that she has been elected to protect and defend the prerogatives of our Assembly and the prestige of the senators, but I also know that only the President of the Senate can intervene not by asking, but by demanding with his authority that the Senate not be offended, humiliated and mortified. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We senators, who count so little, cannot do much; only the President of the Senate can fight from the top of his office, in favour not of a part but of the entire Parliament, reminding the Government and the majority that the institutions can, indeed they must be reformed, but it must be done with an open face and not so, spouting them surreptitiously like an artichoke, one day disrupting parliamentary practices and another turning the institution of the referendum, or treating the reduction of the number of parliamentarians not as a measure of requalification of Parliament, but as one of the many paragraphs of the reduction of the costs of politics. And you got it right. VOICE FROM THE L-SP-PSD'AZ GROUP. Stop! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, thank you, Senator Zanda. ZANDA (PD). Excuse me, ma'am, let me finish. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I already gave her an extra minute and a half. Thank you, Senator Zanda. By the way, I think his argument was understandable and complete. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u87	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u88	Mr President, we have said a lot about Parliament's humiliation these days and in these last few hours. We have said of his mortification, but I would like to say here - and I hope Senator Zanda listens to me too - unfortunately, it is a mortification whose roots have insinuated, like a dark evil, for a long time. We may not have been able to understand that it was necessary to put in place antibodies to give back strength to parliamentary democracy. The temptation to put the intermediate bodies aside, to build a direct relationship between the head and the people has been warned and has been denounced by many of us in recent times. The point - I say this to Mr Fraccaro and I told him earlier - is not to oppose democracy directed at parliamentary democracy, because strengthening the institutions of participation serves not to replace parliamentary democracy, but to strengthen it. Strengthening the institutions of participation means giving back strength and voice to society and intermediate bodies and above all strengthening Parliament: exactly the opposite of what we have seen in these days and hours. Some have spoken of filth or mortification, but it is as if I had felt almost a widespread and continuous annoyance on the part of the Government, also and above all of the majority, to want to discuss and exercise their role. I say this to my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars: when you protested for the many trusts - I also protested and I continue to do so - you promised this also to the citizens, in the referendary battle in defence of the Constitution, when you had done a tour, and you had held meetings to say that you had to give back strength to the Constitution. We at Liberi and Equal have remained faithful to that constitutional battle and here we reaffirm that the Constitution always defends itself, not only when we are in opposition or when we exchange discussion or a broad and institutional referendary battle only for a political battle. I say this at a time when this Parliament and this House of the Senate, which we have defended strenuously even in the referendary battle, have been absolutely humiliated. Speaking of humiliation, our country has also been humiliated, because the sovereignist battle, made looking only at propaganda, instead of at the substance, has produced the fact that instead of building alliances in Europe to question those rules of rigour that have choked us and that have produced so much suffering in Italy, you raise your tones, provoked, not built alliances, perhaps because your allies were only and only those who were more rigorous than others. You did not build a strategy - there is no Senator Bagnai this evening, but in some way he said it yesterday in his speech - even when it was possible to build them, these alliances, because there was an open confrontation between the various countries. You have succeeded in the miracle of bringing them all together against our country. All this has led to a disastrous outcome. You wanted to do a test of resistance, but in reality the failure was structural. The test of resistance has produced a structural failure and the most eloquent symbolic element is the Brussels order to delay the intervention of Count in the Chamber because to announce it had to be Dombrovskis and Moscovici. That's why I'm talking about humiliation. Italy today is more subordinate than ever and, above all, you have succeeded in making us tie our hands more than it was in September and the Commission has made it absolutely clear. Italy will henceforth be a special watchdog, kept constantly under fire by the Commission with the checks - the two billion deposit, among other things, are meant to mean this - in January and July. But you keep going. Especially the leaders of the 5 Stars and League have told us that the safeguard clauses imposed by Europe mean nothing. It is a lie, as demonstrated by the effort that had to be made this year to sterilize the increase in VAT. This is the voice that weighs the most and for this I said that we are bound for three years: because the old clause was 13 billion, the new clause for 2020 is 23 billion and for 2021 it is 28 billion. This, with the structural deficit zero comma something, do you know what that means? That we, for three years, other than expansive maneuver! This is the miracle you've managed to do. Particularly significant is that next year Italy will not be able to resort to the deficit, having already brought the deficit to zero, nor to flexibility, having already used this year the one possible for the three years. The capestral agreement with Europe has saved your government propaganda. It is significant the game of 2.4 percent became then 2.04 percent, thinking that the Italians are all not able to understand and having said that on the 2.4 percent deficit you would never go back. This agreement saved your propaganda, but only in exchange for a guillotine ready to strike our country and the citizens again. The attempt to make believe that the same things can be done with about 10 billion less, another 2 billion frozen for the next year and over 30 billion less in the three years, is ridiculous and is an insult to the intelligence of Italians. Then, perhaps, Minister Tria will explain how these miracles can be performed. The reality is that this maneuver will give little to a few and will cost a lot to many. We have not been able to examine this amendment in the Commission, but we have seen the new surprises: we will find further cuts in investment, another five billion cuts. Exactly the opposite of what we said. We said that the problem for us is not overtaking, but starting the country again, investing on a green plan to do medium and small works, to build employment. There is the postponement of recruitment in the public administration and the blocking of the indexing of medium-low pensions. You propaganda the issue of pensions of gold or platinum, but in the meantime go explain to the pensioner, who will have 1,050-1,100 euros, who will have to pay him once again. I say this to Senator Lannotti: always in the same way he cashes in this country. And then you cut for publishing - because it bothers you - that will mostly hit the small newspapers. Overall, the country will eventually be poorer, both in terms of money and pluralism and culture. The most serious thing about maneuvering is that there is no such thing as a broken deficit, but not a public investment plan capable of creating work and income. It is not only for the present but also for the future. The accepted clauses mean that it will not be possible to do so in the coming years either. You sold out the future in exchange for the election campaign for next spring and you still dare to talk about an expansive maneuver. It's gonna take a little while, but you're gonna pay the bill in the end, because the citizens will understand that. You should think, because the polls last a little, then the reality comes. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u89	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I also look at the benches of the Government, where in these days and weeks I have rarely seen a substantial presence of the Government. Tonight, tonight, I see Minister Tria and I thank him, because I believe that this Parliament, that the Senate of the Republic needs to have an interlocutor and needs to be heard, because the Italian people, the citizens, must be heard. Unfortunately today is an evening, it is a day, it is a time that to us who are here to represent the Italian people gives a certain sadness. I believe that this is the time when my speech takes place with more difficulty. I find it very difficult, colleagues, to find the strength and enthusiasm to represent the thought that is in myself. I am doing this because of the political climate that I have experienced in these two weeks: for fifteen days I and many of my colleagues in the Budget Committee have been here, glued to our territory, our Commissions and our chairs, to try to make a contribution to our country, but the disillusionment has been total. Our commitment, our will, our stubbornness at certain times, have served nothing. The institutions we represent - and they are important, not us - have unfortunately been delegitimized by the political behaviour of this Government and this majority. Today, in the Budget Committee, we have been asked to give an opinion, which is here and which should have been, as far as we are concerned, a non-obstacle or preventative opinion. Well, I wonder how colleagues have been able to give an opinion in ten minutes on about 500 pages of maxi amendment. We at the Brothers of Italy, out of respect for the institutions, those institutions that we always and in any case want to honour, precisely because they represent the Italian people, we stayed seriously and responsibly in the Commission, but we could not and wanted to vote, because we did not have the elements to express any opinion, since in ten minutes it was not possible to analyze 500 pages, tables, paragraphs by paragraphs. This is the climate in which we have come to this evening. This is the climate that leads me to conclude the speeches of my colleagues of Brothers of Italy and that will then lead my leader, Senator Ciriani, to announce the vote on trust. Responsibility, however, should lead us all, majority and opposition, to a different behavior. I did not even appreciate - and I say this with that sincerity that belongs to me - a certain attitude that the Democratic Party had at the beginning of this sitting. We must respect the institutions; it is not screaming or throwing cards in the air that we make politics. So, as the majority did not, for me, respect Parliament, at a time when it did not allow Parliament and the Commission to work, I believe that the Democratic Party too has not been consistent with the seriousness that the Italian people demand of those who sit on these bars. I believe that each of us, beyond the parties, must first of all be here not to make cinema or theatre, but to respect himself, his political opponents and the institutions. We have the way of doing it and saying it, we can say things with force and also with a certain badness, if we want, but we must always do it rigorously and consistently, without making scenes, because the people are watching us, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the people are looking at us and, as the majority looks at it, they are also looking at the seriousness with which the opposition carries out its own ideas. Moreover, it seems to me also to remember that in recent years we have often gone forward with blows of confidence, perhaps not getting to the point of not having the Commissions work, but the miscostume has begun for some time and therefore from today, since we are in the imminence of Christmas, since we are in the imminence (for those who believe us) of a festivity that reminds us of the birth, each of us should try to bring rebirth in politics, to bring an answer, a sense of responsibility, for the respect - I say it and I repeat it - of those who voted for us, but also of those who did not vote for us, but we need interpreters of the will and ideality of a whole country. On the substance, Mr President, I am going to talk about this trust. What confidence should we discuss, what confidence should we give or deny this Government? The confidence in measures which, according to our opinion, have not been in line with what the Italian people need. It is only a few days ago that the Senate and the House of Anti-Corruption Law passed, which has even received the disapproval of lawyers and magistrates; a measure that risks, thanks to a demagogy that does not belong to us, to leave on the grating for years of citizens who may be honest, but who are confronted with justice. I am thinking of the constitutional prerogatives drawn by our constituent Fathers, who are dragged by the jacket, because here everyone becomes defenders of the Constitution but then they have cut it, turned it around and taken in their own way, so the Constitution is fine on the one hand, but it is not good when it defended the prerogatives of parliamentarians towards justice, nor when it has led to the defence of vitality; that is, basically, the Constitution is good when it is good for us and not when it should be good for the whole constitutional arc. Well, in my opinion, the anti-corruption measure has made a legal blow to the Constitution and I hope that none of you in the coming years will suffer the consequences of this demagogic justiceism that has led the Government to approve that measure. The confidence in these matters certainly does not belong to us, but perhaps we should give it to what has happened in the Justice Commission these days, because, through an opinion (which we hope will not be transposed), you have tried to extend to the bankruptcy law the rules that absolutely want to deny the meritocracy: you want to open up to the labour consultants the attribution of bankruptcies, that is, to matters that do not belong to them. However, there are many examples of how trust cannot be given. In this draft budget law you are going to harm the autonomy of the professional coffers, i.e. basically go to tell a private coffin that you can condon payments not due. The professional coffers, ladies and gentlemen, are private and must be respected as such, while this majority, which today demands trust, does not respect the professional coffers, as well as not respecting the merit, as I said before. Make cuts of 38 billion in the three-year course of the draft budgetary law under consideration that invest the production of this country. Cut off the railroads. Yeah, you don't like high speed, five-star friends, unfortunately. The high speed began historically in 1936, when the first trains went over 180 kilometers per hour, trying to unite our country, a high speed colleagues - and I repeat it strongly because history does not cancel anyone - that has allowed Italy to be today the most advanced country in Europe and if you read and analyze the economic chronicles, you know how the approach of urban and suburban areas can help the economy. Well, you are against high speed, but not only that, you are also against the renewal of regional railway lines, because you have taken away EUR 800 million from them. You have attacked pensioners and those who earn 1,500 euros from now on will have a lower adjustment of their income thanks to your intervention with this law. I could go on, but unfortunately time won't let me. Dear friends, dear colleagues, it is not demagogy and welfare that creates wealth for the country. Unfortunately, and I conclude, what we are considering is a financial maneuver of austerity, which will, among other things, lead the next Government, ahead of 2020, to a financial maneuver already written. We will have our hands tied thanks to the Budget Law that you are expected to approve today, this evening. Brothers of Italy will certainly not be able to give their vote. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u91	Senator Misiani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u92	Mr President, we are going to vote on the budget law in a condition that has little precedent, a condition of institutional removal and of open violation of the rules, as we have unfortunately seen at today's sitting of the Budget Committee. One week in the Commission to pretend to discuss the law and the amendments without voting on one. A large amendment that completely rewritten the maneuver that had been approved by the House, presented in great delay, with errors, up to the mess of the amendment on the rental with driver, first inserted and then removed, appealing to a non-existent problem of cover, then to make a decree, apparently, at a night session of the Council of Ministers. I personally find it regrettable that this important debate, the general debate on the most important measure taken by Parliament, does not see the intervention of the majority senators, among whom there are many valuable people. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We would have liked to know their thoughts, but obviously there is an order of stables. They can't talk and they can't say what they think. Don't be treated like puppets. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is the place of democracy and the confrontation of ideas between majority and opposition, and you too have the right and the duty to say yours. We are discussing the budget law in the dark, at the end of a disastrously managed path. Mr President, if the money of the Italians were not involved, which is serious, this path could be called a farce in three acts. The start of the first act is well in mind: the night of 27 September, the balcony of Palazzo Chigi, the vice premier Di Maio accompanied by his ministers and the claque of parliamentarians and portaborse, who celebrated the maneuver of the people, 2.4 percent for three years, the abolition of poverty, the dismantling of the Fornero law. We had immediately highlighted the limits of that maneuver and propaganda: the enormous public debt, the absence of measures for growth, a totally unbalanced maneuver on current expenditure. You, on the other hand, have for two months fed a great illusion in the country: that it was possible to please everyone, that it was possible to respect an unrealizable government contract, the illusion of financing the maneuver in due course and of regardless of Europe, the euro area and the partners with whom we share the single currency. You started a foolish, political confrontation with the European Union and aimed at making that clash a part of the 2019 European election campaign. In so doing, Mr President, the Government and the majority have launched Italy at full speed against a wall, sending the spread to the stars, starting the growth of interest rates for families and businesses, causing an uninterrupted collapse of consumer and business confidence, a flight of capital with few precedents and, unfortunately, the slipping of the country towards the review after fourteen quarters of consecutive growth. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Look, sooner or later we will have to deal with how much this madness has cost the Italians and these two months of foolish management of the budget law. These are costs that we can estimate in billions of euros burned in interest on the public debt and billions of euros of wealth of the savers gone into smoke. The second act begins between 21 and 22 November. Minister Tria, on 21 November the European Commission rejected the second version of the budgetary programme document and launched the first steps in the infringement procedure. On November 22nd, the real alarm bell sounds: the auction of BTP Italia goes half-desert, the worst flop since 2012, the real alarm for a country that next year will have to place 400 billion of public debt with the risk that nobody buys the Italian public debt, starting from Italian savers. In those two days you discovered that Italy's biggest problem was not in the rooms of Brussels, but in our country, in a wall to which you had launched Italy and that it was much closer than you yourselves could realize. At that moment you have engaged the reverse and resumed the negotiations with the European Union, but you have taken it back in the worst conditions, with a country isolated as never before. It was isolated from the great European partners, isolated also from those sovereign governments, who should theoretically be friends of Matteo Salvini and the Movimento 5 Stars and who, instead, were the hardest to claim the return of Italy to European parameters. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Your friends and allies were the first to put you against a wall and force you to reverse. Finally, I come to the third act of this charade. On 19 December, two days ago, the agreement with the European Union was reached. Vice Prime Minister Salvini - whom I see peeping in this Chamber - had in his usual contemptuous tone spoken of a letter from Santa Claus. Vice Prime Minister Salvini, the letter was there, but it was the letter that the President of the Count Council and the Minister of Economics Tria sent to Jean Claude Juncker, Pierre Moscovici and Valdis Dombrovskis saying that Italy was ready to go back on its steps, that the maneuver of the people was a joke and that instead we went to rebalance to respect the European rules. [[Applause from the PD Group]] All this happened in the mortification of the Italian Parliament, forced to be a spectator to this farce and deprived of essential information that had been given to the European Commission, but not to the Senate of the Republic, with so many greetings to the sovereign words of order, to the Italian Republic and to a maneuver of the people that since 19 December no longer exists. Mr President, we are delighted that Italy has avoided the infringement procedure. Let's be clear: we are always rooting for our country. The infringement procedure would have been the coup d'état for a country screwed into financial instability. Italians, however, must know the very high price of these two months of madness that will be forced to pay for the ignorance, amateurism and adventurism with which the path of the budget law has been managed. It is a price that is written in the tables that you refused to give to the Budget Commission and that we have finally been able to read. It is the price of a maneuver that is no longer expansive: it is neutral in 2019 and recessive in the following years. It is the price of two propagandistic flags, the income of citizenship and quota 100, which have one third less resources than the initial appropriations. Dear friends, Italians do not have the slices of salami on their eyes and you will not be able to go on for long to tell that, with a third of money less, you will be interested in the same audience and with the same timing to measures such as the income of citizenship and quota 100. Weddings don't come with dried figs. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr President, the resources for growth were already very limited in the initial version and the maxi amendment that the Government has tabled reduces the resources for investment. It's a lot of growth! This has become a maneuver all over the current part and is a maneuver that cashes on pensions of 3 million Italians, blocks recruitment in the public administration and leaves on the heads of the Italians a gigantic sword of Damocles, with 23 billion euros of increase of VAT in 2020 and 29 billion euros in 2021. Do you know what the consequences of this sword of Damocles will be? Those who have the misfortune to set up the maneuver for 2020 will be able to do only two things: increase taxes, because no one is in a position to dismantle this safeguard clause, and tell the Italians that we have joked and that 100 percent and citizenship income are the promises of a season, good for the European elections, but that there will be no money to go on for long with these measures. [[Call the president back.]] I have concluded, Mr President. We avoided going against a wall - yes - but we put a noose on the heads of the Italians, because VAT at 26.5 percent is a noose and a sword of Damocles. [[Applause from the PD Group]] With this maneuver you've been living for the next few months, but you've compromised the future of this country. We will not accept it and we will vote against it, but it will be the Italians who do not Forgive you. [[Applause from the PD Group. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u93	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u94	Mr President, I would like to make it clear that it is also a regret for the Lega Group that it has not been possible to get to this House with the rapporteurs and, despite this, I think it can be said that the work in the Commission, beyond the events of the last few hours, has not been useless. The work has been useful, both in the House of the Budget Commission and in informal meetings and if we have a large amendment today, we also have it because the members of the Budget Commission, of majority and opposition, have worked together to improve this move. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] A mandatory choice was made in the face of negotiations with the European Commission, which lasted, alas, until 19 December. A necessary choice has been made to avoid the provisional exercise and it has been a useful time, because it has allowed our country to avoid the infringement procedure. So I am sorry for what has happened, but we are sure that we have done everything possible to ensure that the parliamentary debate is not useless and useful. VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. What debate? TOSATO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Let's talk about the content of the maneuver. First of all, it was essential for us to reform the Fornero law. It was a pact that we had made with the citizens and that we had to honor. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] This maneuver brings justice to hundreds of thousands of citizens who have undergone unjust and unacceptable reform. There has been talk of shame, but that law has been a shame and should be ashamed of who voted for it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Certainly not the political forces that take responsibility today to change it and succeed in achieving this important result. Some may be unaware of the meaning of the word exodus, but let us remember that law has also caused this tragedy. In recent years our country has moved from so-called baby pensions to one of the highest retirement age in Europe. It was unacceptable that this maneuver was changed. The maneuver contains other measures that we consider useful, starting from the start of the flat tax, that starts from subjects often hit by the tax (speak of VAT consignments). There are also measures concerning Ires (which is lowered from 24 to 15% for those investing in equipment and job creation), 30% reduction of the INAIL premium rates for companies, the increase of the IMU deductibility on sheds, the dry coupon for derelict shops, and the allocation of EUR 15 billion for public investment in the maintenance of roads, schools and infrastructure. I also remember the forecast of 1.5 billion for the swindled savers, also a great shame of the past, on which we finally intervene. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We are talking about a maneuver that provides for a budget of EUR 1 billion for the family, significant social increases, more funding for health and health care, the redistribution of income for families most affected by the economic crisis and the release of resources for local authorities (from the use of the administrative surplus, to the fund of 400 million for municipalities and 250 million for the provinces that have to maintain high schools and roads). There are also other measures that are a source of pride for us. I am thinking, for example, of the fifteen-year extension of the maritime state property concessions, the no to the so-called Bolkestein directive, thanks to the tenacity of the Minister Centinario, the leader Romeo and Senator Ripamonti. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In short, this is a maneuver that puts equity, social justice and investment in development at the centre. Then there is the chapter on the negotiation with Europe. Someone has repeatedly said that we have surrendered, but we remember where we come from. We have been coming from six years of maneuvers that have literally been dictated and imposed by Brussels. On the other hand, we have entered into a firm and responsible negotiation. As you will all remember, in 2011 a government fell because someone wanted to impose the maneuver on our country (the friends of Forza Italia should remember it first of all). After that, we had the Monti Government, with the so-called decree saves Italy, a maneuver of 18 billion linear cuts and 18 billion new taxes: these are the measures voted by those who today are in opposition and makes us morale! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] After voting on that maneuver and the Fornero law, it is ridiculous to morale this majority and this government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The successive PD governments have done even worse: you have sold the country in exchange for the authorization to spend in deficit; you have authorized the arrival of hundreds of thousands of presumed refugees in exchange for flexibility on the public accounts. That's the truth. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is the recent past and, with the vote last March 4, the Italians canceled it, swept it away. This government could not make a maneuver with a deficit of 1.6%, as the European Union wanted to impose. Thanks to the work of our President-in-Office of the Council and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, we have achieved an excellent 2.04%, which gives hope for the future. We know that much more had to be done and much still needs to be done to remedy a situation that is still dramatic for our economy and for the country. With this manoeuvre we have not solved all the problems of our country - we do not have this presumption - but we are certainly proud of many of the measures contained in it. There are also some negative aspects, which I would like to mention. There are two on all of them. I am referring to the repeal of Ires facilities for non-profit entities. This is a necessary measure, probably dictated by some judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which we will have to remedy sooner or later. It is also regrettable that we have not been able to revise the rule on e-invoicing, which - I remember - was wanted by the previous Government, with a coverage of two billion euros: we were not in a position to increase taxes, nor to make further cuts for an amount of two billion. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] We are all aware that to govern we need great humility and great balance, but also great determination and this Government is demonstrating that it has these qualities. We certainly accept the public's criticism of this maneuver; we could not do otherwise, it is normal for that to happen. But one thing is certain: we do not accept lessons from those who have supported the governments of the last six years. We do not accept lessons from those who supported the Monti Government, the Government of recession, taxes and indiscriminate cuts. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] We do not accept lessons from those who have brought local authorities to their knees, from those who have approved the infamous Fornero law, from those who have sold out the interests of the country, from those who have transformed Italy into the refugee camp of Europe. We do not accept lessons from those who have enriched the business of the host cooperatives. We do not accept lessons from those who have not been able to protect savers cheated by banks. We do not accept lessons, ultimately, from those who failed. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Because Italy is the taillight in Europe for the growth of GDP, for the unemployment rate, for the millions of families below the poverty line. This Government represents a hope for the majority of Italians and we do not mean and do not want to disappoint them. We want to show that one can be proudly European, without being slaves to a perverse system that unscrupulously crushes the weakest. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] We do not want a Europe that, in order to protect the interests of the few, cancels the rights of the many. This is your model of Europe, not ours. The Government has full legitimacy to continue: it has confidence in Parliament and trust in the country. I address the Government: you have demonstrated balance and determination, courage and a sense of responsibility. The Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will assume the responsibility to support this manoeuvre and the action of the Government of change. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] We are aware that this is not a perfect manoeuvre, but also the strength and determination of those who have the confidence of the majority of Italian citizens. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] As long as this is so, it will certainly not be your screams in Parliament that can stop us. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. The Senators of the L-SP-PSd'Az Group stand up. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u95	Senator Ronzulli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I would have liked to begin my speech by pointing out that, despite the questionable progress of the work of examining this draft budget law, something good and useful for citizens could still emerge from the parliamentary debate. Instead - alas - so it was not. First of all, I would like to focus on one aspect of the maxi amendment. As a senator, as President of the Bicameral Parliamentary Committee for Childhood and Adolescence, but above all as a woman and as a mother, it is something that I think is of the utmost importance. I am referring to the issue of orphans for domestic crimes: today, in the text we are about to vote, there are only EUR 5 million left, compared with the 12 million requested but above all necessary. In order to finance citizenship income, in the extreme attempt to regain the trust and loyalty of your electorate, you have even (but perhaps only on paper) found 7 billion euros for 2019 alone. [[Brusio.]] You can go out if you don't care. For the orphans of feminicide the season of sales began in advance, but on the pain of those who remain you can not and you must not make any discount. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] But let us come to your defeat. In front of the country, despite the late hour, you have voluntarily - or perhaps unconsciously - raised a mess of conflicting announcements between them, so as not to make Italians and Parliament understand anything. I wonder if you're doing it or if you're there, because I still haven't figured it out. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] But I would warn you: you can take everything away from us, but you cannot take away the right of this Parliament to know how the government intends to spend the money of the Italians. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] If Parliament's ability to carry out this control fails, the idea of parliamentary representation fails, the sovereignty of the people which Parliament represents is lost. It is quite bizarre that a government which professes to be sovereignist and populist is, in fact, against the maximum expression of popular sovereignty. It was supposed to be the maneuver of change, but it was the change of maneuver! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You've only given us a few wretched hours to decide the fate of the Italians. So, I ask you if the Italian citizens are worth only a few wretches to you now. We did together with you, League and Movimento 5 Stars, in the last parliamentary term a common battle against the Democratic Party that made to vote for measures with nocturnal confidence. But in one thing you have succeeded: take away the primacy of Renzi! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You are emulating the method of slides, tweets, promises that do not follow the facts, of appearance and not of substance; but, even more, it surprises us that you are imitating the flaws of the worst old policy: Ministers and Undersecretaries who escape Parliament's judgment, ghost measures, night sessions to hide the contents from the Italians. Yesterday the interventions of Senators Patuanelli and Romeo impressed me, because their embarrassment was so palpable that the content of their intervention was even embarrassing. Senator Romeo (which I don't see), you have been able to talk about arm wrestling with Europe. I give you two news: in the meantime, the arm wrestling with Europe is not over yet. You lost this round, but if you like, you lost it very firmly. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The second news is that the confirmation that this wonderful maneuver is, contrary to what you said, the product of the copy-paste of the Brussels faxes is that the same was blessed by Senator Professor Mario Monti himself (who I do not see). Therefore, if even Professor Monti, as already announced, will vote for the confidence, which has confirmed to be, never as in this case, dictated by Brussels, then it will be easier for the Italians to understand in which direction Italy will go in the coming months. Of one thing, however, we must acknowledge that we have kept our word: you are not behind in millimeters but in billions of euros. You made a U-turn and were not promoted, but postponed to January. The infringement procedure still rests on the heads of the Italians. Italy remains a special supervised under protection, with many greetings to sovereignism. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And it is offensive to citizens that the Movimento 5 Stars on social and television boast of non-existent successes, that continue to tell lies about lies, of which they have now lost control, because every day there are new and different ones that make those of the day before forget. In comparison, the Luce Institute propaganda was an amateur thing. And let's be clear: this maneuver is a huge fake news. It is a serious mockery for Italians who will remember this fake news. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I am sorry that Mr Di Maio is not here, because his shopping list with the things he has done is a political scam, a big joke for Italians. But since it's Christmas soon, maybe he imagined writing his letter to Santa Claus with a list of gifts. I would have liked to tell him, however, that perhaps he did not realize that he had received a sack of coal well in advance that he would dump on the life of the Italians. First, Senator Renzi spoke by quoting Abraham Lincoln: "You can deceive everyone for some time and someone forever." And he does not make this quotation at random, because he knows well what it means and paid on his political own the unfulfilled promises. Italians, however, no longer have rings to the nose and, therefore, I say to you: attention, consent is like passion, it does not last forever, especially if founded on lies. The biggest and most cruel lie is the one made on the shoulders of our pensioners. You have blocked the revaluation of pensions of 1,500 euros. It's the pensions of your parents and grandparents. It's not like golden pensions. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Here of gold there is only your incompetence and, probably, of gold here there should only be silence. In conclusion, you are not honoring the Homeland, you are not rendering a service to Italy and to Italians and instead you are sacrificing the Italians and the interests of Italians to save yourself and your interests. You are offending and trampling democratic rules. Such a scenario had never been seen in political history. We must add other points to Di Maio's list: humiliated parliamentary democracy: done; violated popular sovereignty: done; humiliated Italians: done; and - more serious - endangered the future of Italy: done. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I wish you every success, because you will really need it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u97	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dell'Olio. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I had written an institutional speech, but after what I have heard and seen in this House these days I have torn that speech and rewritten it completely, because I think it is absolutely correct to address not only the colleagues and colleagues in this House, but also the citizens who are listening to us from home, to those who are there at midnight or will listen to us tomorrow, because we are not here to do the television show to the Italians, but to keep this country going, and it does not matter if we vote at midnight, at 5 or at 10 a.m. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Ironic Comments from the PD Group]] Trust - I quote from the dictionary - is an attitude towards others or to themselves, which results from a positive assessment of facts, circumstances, relationships, so trust in others or their own possibilities, and which generally produces a feeling of security and tranquility. LONARDO (FI-BP). Whoever lives will see! (00.07) (Followed by the oil). This would be enough to end the discussion here: we of the Movimento 5 Stars have confidence in the abilities of this Government, for a whole set of situations and circumstances already extensively tried with words and facts. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] What we are about to approve is a maneuver that finally has the courage to pursue a completely different approach to the problems of Italy. And it could not have been otherwise seen the disastrous economic and social framework that we inherited from previous governments, and so we have a duty to learn from the mistakes of the past. Believe me, we have ample baggage here to consult so we can improve this country. This is called the people's maneuver, but more correctly I call it the people's maneuver, because it is for the people that we are doing it. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] It is the popular vote that we are honouring and respecting and we are always here in this House, unlike those elected senators who never show up here, and it would be nice if the citizens could remember it at the next election. LONARDO (FI-BP). What are you talking about? OIL (M5S). I do not make it a problem of money forfeited for an unfulfilled job, but a matter of respect for the popular vote and the institutions, just the respect of the institutions that a colleague told us yesterday that we did not have and that I claim with pride, because if we are here in this House it is precisely for the respect of the institutions and the love for our country. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] We are here to try to make up for the mistakes of all those who have ruled Italy in the last thirty years and who have brought it to its knees. Forgive me another fact on the question of respect: if we want to receive respect, in this House and out of here, we must be beings first of all to respect others, because respect does not start from the head, but from ourselves. I therefore hope that no one here in the future can afford to address the President of the Council of Ministers, as was done yesterday, by calling him a lawyer. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] This as well as being a low-level term, because you can attack yourself politically... Mr Laus (PD). Shame is a noble feeling! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Laus! OIL (M5S). You can be politically attacked for different ideas, but don't offend: it is offensive on a personal basis, as well as being a lack of respect for the institutions. How is it disrespectful of the institutions to tell the President of the Senate that today you went to deliver papers to the government - those of the maneuver - when we all saw clearly that they were thrown into the air, with a theatrical play [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I hope it didn't go on air, and not for your image, but for the low level of respect for the institutions that you are demonstrating to the country. [[Senator Lonardo's comments. Protests from the PD Group.]] MALPEZZI (PD). Don't talk about respect, rinse your mouth! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I gave collective censorship to a group earlier; let's not do that. [[Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] Shut up and listen, there's always to learn. [[Senator Laus' comments.]] Please, Senator Dell'Olio. I was saying, this maneuver is for the people and it is the first time that a maneuver really thinks of those in this country who are not considered, of those who leave the labour market and do not know how to go back, to those who want to start working in legality, but does not succeed for the thousand laces and laces that harness our entrepreneurs and free professionals, to those who want to retire after a working life and cannot do it because of a law that has raised the age limits. Let's talk about trust in the maneuver. Let us start with the European Economic Community, which then became the European Community and finally the European Union: The Community, which then becomes a Union, and the term 'economic' disappears gradually, indicating that the intention was to create a set of nations that would start from the economic aspects and then, over time, become a union of freely aggregated nations. To unify the nations, we started by unifying that common element which is easier to manage, the currency, which has been the driver that has managed us all these years. The euro had to be the first step, the easiest to manage and important to unite these countries; the enabling factor to do everything else and improve everyone's life. With the euro we will work one day less earning as if we were working one day more, remember? But we have practically stopped there, and I do not mean it with malice, let us be clear, but because those who have misgoverned us in recent years have felt that it was enough to manage the economic aspect in order to be able to truly unite the peoples. The result is visible to all: five countries that are more than 100 percent debt-to-GDP ratio; another 10 between 60 and 100 percent; Countries that have gone into default or almost, such as Greece and Portugal, and with regard to Italy 5 million poor under the threshold of absolute poverty. I am sorry that in this House we often quote falsehoods, saying, for example, that pensions are reduced from EUR 1,300 to EUR 1,500. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] These pensions, instead of receiving an indexing increase of 17 euros in January, will receive it by 16.7 euros: 30 cents of less increase, not reduction. MIRABELLI (PD). That's not true! VALENT (PD). Liars! MALPEZZI (PD). Lie! OIL (M5S). And the lowest increase will be 12 euros for pensions over 5,000 euros. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Or, worse still, when someone who led this country said that citizenship income costs €63 billion: but where did you read it? And then next thing you know, he said, You lied, you cheated the Italians. Here those who lie to the Italians are those who promised, after losing the referendum, to go home and instead are sitting in this House. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Mr Verducci (PD). Shame on you! MALPEZZI (PD). They voted for the citizens, they show respect. [[Senator Laus' comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u99	Senator Laus, stop. After the third censor you win the prize! OIL (M5S). Among other things, he also said that the President of the Count Council has gone to settle with the European Union; but if President Conte has dealt - as he says - to avoid violating Italy, and therefore for the good of Italy, he instead sold Italy when he went to be authorized the 80 euros for an electoral necessity.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u100	[[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] What does this have to do with trust? It has to do with this, because the confidence that our past Presidents of the Council have made Europe fail in our dealings with us is crucial to the survival of our country in Europe itself. So, instead, the ability of President Conte, and of the whole Government, to face a complex negotiation with Europe has resulted in an excellent result: that of being able to avoid the infringement procedure, without the government having to give up the inspirational philosophy and social investment measures that characterize the budget law. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] This is a step - and not even a small one - towards regaining confidence in Europe and giving us Italians one more reason to trust this Government. From next year we can put on the field the income of citizenship, the overcoming of the law Fornero, the increase of the minimum pensions, the recognition of the sacred rights of the savers betrayed from the banks, strong participations of investments in infrastructures, especially in the more poor areas of the Country [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] : all actions already widely illustrated by colleagues, on which I am not going back. MALPEZZI (PD). We'll see about that. Liars! OIL (M5S). I am referring here to what has been said earlier in terms of communities: we have the merit of this manoeuvre, and we are proud to have shown, even to the European Commission, that it is never, like today, necessary to focus on the fact that financial stability, the one so dear to Brussels, cannot be separated from social stability anymore. The European Union that will come, the one that will be renewed in its bodies in the spring, which has left too many citizens behind in time, will undoubtedly be a European Union with a broad view on social issues and, finally - we all hope so - it will become a united Europe, not only formally because of the currency, but in fact because social policies - internal and Community - will be addressed and managed giving each country the right space to improve economically and socially. The Movimento 5 Stars and the League, when they signed the Government contract, another sign of respect for the institutions (not a pact of the Nazarene hidden or other incursions, but a document freely consultable from all), have done so by inserting more than 30 points to carry forward in the legislature: more than half of these points have been addressed in this maneuver and it is only the first. Is this a perfect maneuver? No, of course, always and in any case it can be improved, and we would certainly have wanted to do more and better, but given the disastrous situation in which we found this country, and the sword of Damocles of the infringement procedure, we cannot ask for better today. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] And in support of this I have to mention two things: the first is that in the famous document announcing the infringement procedure in fact it was said that the cause was precisely the breach of the deficit carried out by the previous governments Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri and the rule of debt was only the scapegoat; the second is that when we talk about the sterilization of the VAT clauses, as has already been said by my colleague Bottici, we must remember that the Monti Government has always foreseen these clauses, with the commitments of every I have the government to sterilize them for the following year, and Senator Monti, speaking of dust under the carpet, or rather of a flying carpet, has assumed responsibility for this by saying - and I quote - that this situation has been partially built by us. So, dear opposition, if you want to take it out on someone, for a situation that has worsened over time, don't yell at the wolf, the wolf!It's just put one hand on your heart and the other on your mouth, and don't talk about it anymore. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] You wanted investment, there are about 150 billion euros still; what did the previous government do to restart these investments? Nothing. What is this government doing? A lot. COLLINA (PD). Stop! OIL (M5S). He has already unlocked the administrative surpluses for the municipalities, he has created a directing booth and he is doing this analysis of costs and benefits because the great works and interventions must be done and the money must be spent, but it must be spent well, because it is our task to administer the citizens' money well and to have the common sense of the family father (let us remember the civil code). Mr Laus (PD). Stop! OIL (M5S). And again, the gold pension cut... president. Now finish. OIL (M5S). The Movimento 5 Stars has very much wanted both the adjustment of the vitalities of the parliamentarians and the cut of the pensions of gold. And this is just the beginning, so wanting to take points... BITI (PD). Time! FADELI (PD). Time! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No more senator, your colleague will speak in an explanation of vote. We're at 12 minutes. OIL (M5S). Those are the last words, President. There was a margin for improvement compared to the previous manoeuvres very wide in my opinion, therefore the confidence in this maneuver and in this government for us of Movimento 5 Stars is maximum, and this is only the first step towards the change that this country has been waiting for for a long, too long. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u101	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u104	Mr Cario (Misto-MAIE). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the MAIE - Associative Movement of Italians Abroad has been present in Parliament since 2008 and for the first time we see that a majority of Government achieves what has been promised in the election campaign. As Italians abroad, we are proud of a Government that defends the interests of our country, reconciling them intelligently with Europe. On the merits of the measures of our direct interest as Italians abroad, we intend to appreciate in particular the decision to authorise the increase in 350 units of staff assigned to the consular network (300 units of staff of role and 50 contractors). This hasn't happened in 30 years. [[Applause M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az.]] A measure for us revolutionary that has a double meaning: on the one hand, a commitment contained in the Government contract in point 10 is confirmed; on the other hand, allowing to improve the times of the consular services, is a decisive measure in order to effectively combat what we can call the "mafia of appointments." That's the way it is, and I repeat it: the dating mafia. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] (00:21) (Followed by Mr Cario). That network of intermediaries that, although opposed by the Consulates, has developed in recent years and imposes on many compatriots the payment of absurd figures in order to be able to access a service to which they are entitled, to the renewal of the passport or practice of citizenship. Moreover, we would like to underline the fact that this law preserves the Italian press abroad, a service that in addition to providing information, promotes our language, our culture and made in Italy. For these reasons, Mr President, the MAIE will vote yes to this manoeuvre and to the confidence of the Government. [[Live applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u107	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, over the last few weeks we have seen things we hoped we would not have to see. First the balcony of Palazzo Chigi, then the conflict with the European institutions, the spread that increased, the House forced to approve a provisional budget law, the promise that the Senate would have the opportunity and time to work on the maneuver. For days we have been waiting for the agreement with Europe. Then the President of the Council came to this House to announce that there would be no infringement procedure. We expressed our relief and said: Now let us work, though. In the Commission there were thousands of amendments and majority and opposition had already made a selection of the most important, precisely to demonstrate a spirit of cooperation. In the meantime, however, the maxi amendment did not come, but instead the worst of the decisions came, that of the text presented directly to the House. I say this for the benefit of those who look at us from home: it means that all the proposals, all the preparatory work of the Commission, all the comparisons, the reports, the rewordings were worth what they were worth: little. It must also be said that this House is also useless, because with confidence there is no possibility of parliamentary dialectic and amendment of the text, but only the possibility of taking or leaving. A series of unprecedented forcings have been lined up; in so many years lived in the local institutions I had never seen anything like it. We join in the words that President Alberti Casellati expressed yesterday in this House and in the alarm cry launched by President Napolitano. The Senate cannot be turned into a waiting room. The Senate cannot be deprived of its functions and prerogatives. The Senate can't be humiliated like this. Mr President, I must say that I have been puzzled by what has happened in the last fourteen days in the Commission and in this House. As a representative of a minority I say that for us parliamentary democracy is the only guarantee for a minority, because it is the one that forces you to find the compromise and forces you to always find the solution in moderation and not in extreme positions. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), PD and FI-BP.]] And that is what also guarantees a linguistic minority like ours. So it scares me if I see that parliamentary democracy is so humiliated. We had no prejudices about an expansive maneuver, which, at the cost of even some forcing, aimed decisively at growth and development. Instead here, despite the many announcements, not only is growth forgotten, but the tax pressure does not decrease and risks getting up for both businesses and families. If Italy were a family, it could well be said that she was signed a mountain of bills of exchange, which will be honored in a few months. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] The safeguard clauses will think like boulders on the activity of the Government: 23 billion euros to be found by 2020 and 29 billion euros by 2021, otherwise the VAT will splashed first to 25 and then to 26.5%. I do not want to continue on this issue now, because everyone here and outside knows what it means for consumption if VAT increases to 26.5%. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] That is how we feel about the key measures. The problem of pensions cannot be dealt with only from the point of view of those who want to retire, but also from those who will pay those pensions. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Hardly 100 will help turnover in the world of work. Everyone says it, the research explains it: the automatism between a person who leaves the job and a person who enters does not exist. On the income of citizenship bet on the fact that the centers for the employment will be able to give a job to those who do not have it; but the work creates it the enterprises and in this maneuver in my opinion the enterprises are neglected (modestly I have read the maneuver for what you can, so many pages in the few minutes that we had). So the risk, very concrete, is that it will only be a welfare measure, which will even favour, if you don't pay attention, undeclared work. We have said this forcefully in these weeks: put growth and development at the centre. And instead we discover that you have frozen 650 million euros in favor of the productive system with the safeguard clause coming out; you have canceled the investments on railways and yards; you have destined just one billion to innovation, when a country like France in 2016 put 10; you have canceled 850 million for the EU policies, with the risk of slowing the execution of the projects financed for 2019 within the programming 2014-2020; you have reduced the tax facilities for the non-commercial agencies, that is, the activities of volunteering, social assistance and engagement in the social-health system. With the web tax are many to say that to pay will not be the colossus of the net, as it would be right, but above all the small and medium Italian companies that have built digital sales platforms. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] Then there are the shadow cuts for local authorities, starting with the postponement of recruitment to the public administration. You see, Mr President, it is difficult to be happy when a budget law, which was intended to restore resources to the citizens, risks doing the exact opposite. We are relieved - and I say this sincerely - that the infringement procedure has been avoided; and we will also be so when we are sure that the provisional exercise will be avoided. But this relief cannot remove the great perplexities for a maneuver that has no breath, that bets everything on two measures flag and on which probably the House will also be asked the question of trust. This maneuver is a black cloud on the Italian economy. For the good of Italy, we hope that the storm never breaks out, but it is very difficult; it is very difficult not to feel pessimistic. For all these reasons, Mr President, I am voting against the Budget Act by the Per le Autonomie Group. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), FI-BP, PD and FdI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u110	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we have had the draft budget law available at 4 p.m. today and in a few dozen minutes we will be voting on it. It's a historical record: something like this never happened. The House voted for confidence in a fake maneuver; the Commission could not discuss it and deal with it because the maneuver was unknown. As Senator Quagliarello rightly said, perhaps immediately it does not interest Italian citizens, but the problem - I say to colleagues - is not the humiliation that many senators and senators have experienced like me, I also think of the majority and not only of the opposition. The problem is more serious and it is the humiliation that has had popular sovereignty, [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, FI-BP and PD Groups]] , because it is the Constitution that defines popular sovereignty, which lies in these classrooms. I thank President Conte for his presence, but why have we reached this point? You call into question the bureaucrats of Europe and the bureaucrats of the General Accounting of the State; but when will you assume the responsibility of being the Government of this country? [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]] When will you take this responsibility? It does not even touch you that in the face of such tight times you should have asked this House to make an effort and the minorities would have told you yes. No, slaps and slaps, because so much this is the only language: slaps and slaps. But that's not the problem. The account that is the fault of these or those will break in the truth. You have dealt with the negotiations with Europe; it is a very good thing that there is no infringement procedure, at least for now. So, well, President Conte, but in our opinion the Government has made everything wrong and I would like to try to motivate this statement. After all, nothing new happened; you knew everything from before, you just had to listen to Minister Tria, who two months ago had told you how things were. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]] All the international, European and world centres had explained to us that the economy was taking another road, just as you knew that the markets would not be impressed by the statements of Di Maio and Salvini. The markets are not impressed by the statements of Di Maio and Salvini: the markets listen to them and choose to hit Italy and that's what happened. You left to play them in Europe and were played by Europe. Some of you said, "I don't care." Yes, but Italy did. You can fool yourself, but savers, businesses, Italian families unfortunately can't care. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]] What's the mistake you made? You didn't ask to change the rules. You have approved, without blinking, the reform of the Fund cuts States. You did not ask, as it would have been useful for the country, the Italian Parliament. We take a position together, we go to Europe and we ask that we change the rules that we do not share, that are not good, that are recessive. No, you didn't do this. You slapped, slapped, and you took so many, but you didn't ask. We would have given you our support to go to Europe to ask, after what happened (Genoa, floods, the deficit-GDP ratio at 2%), seven, ten billion investments for the security of the country and a green plan. We would have been with you. You, Mr Conte, would have gone with the vote of this Parliament and had the strength to try to change something. No, you did not do this and you made a serious mistake, which the country pays and above all will pay. You could ask and propose. Senator Bagnai, you always say intelligent things and I always listen to you very carefully, but not a trace of a government political initiative to try to build another relationship with Europe. No, you needed the current expenditure and to finance the 100th share and citizenship income. You went straight on that road and here the paradox: you isolated yourself first of all from the sovereign governments that were the hardest to ask to punish Italy. Now I hear someone say that the European elections will come and the sovereigns will move forward. I feel worse. If they go on, the sovereigns will be very hard on us. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]] and you will explain to me how we will pay 23 billion VAT and 52 billion in two years. Who's gonna make the maneuver? How much will the Italians have to pay? That is the problem, that is the point; you have put yourselves in a dead end in the name of the demagogy made by the people without their knowledge. Pensioners did not know that you would stop him from raising pensions; 2.2 billion in three years. Gold pensions are something else. However, I would like to dwell on a point that I am very interested in. What is happening is not, in my opinion, the result of inexperience. I've never said and I'll never say you're incompetent. I respect my political opponents. I fear something more serious. I am afraid that there is an idea here of democracy or democracy that goes in the direction of Orbán, Putin and Erdoğan. I would ask you to think about it. Democracy without balance, suffering for the autonomous bodies, Banca d'Italia, the judiciary, any autonomous body, is a problem for Italy and for the quality of its democracy. The sick didn't make this law. You expect an increase of one billion, already announced by the Government Gentiloni Silveri, which is not even enough to cover the contract of the sector and the essential levels of assistance blocked at the MEF. That's not enough either. There is no cut of the superticket, which is a boomerang even cheap towards the National Health Service. Doctors strike. Poverty is not only combated with the cheque. Colleagues, 35 percent of families in poverty do not have work problems and will not find work. Overtaking the income of citizenship with the issue of work is a very serious mistake. You've made a recessive maneuver. You have cut investment, as the Parliamentary Budget Office says, from 1.4 billion to 400 million. You said that with a cut of over 10 billion of your maneuver you will do the same things you announced earlier. It is clear that this will not be the case. When the narration clashes with reality, then there will be a very serious problem for the quality of our democracy. We at Liberi and Equal express a simple and clear vote, a vote for Italians, putting first of all the Italians, the companies that will pay more taxes, the fact that there is no idea of development and growth, an industrial policy and a vision. We will vote against protecting the interests of Italy and all Italians. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, FI-BP and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u113	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, probably for the first time in its history the Senate is about to vote on a budget maneuver that it has not read, has not been able to amend, has not been able to study and has not even been able to try to improve. The responsibility for this rather serious institutional vulnus rests on the shoulders of the Government and the majority. There are no excuses acceptable in this regard. President and colleagues, the truth, unfortunately, is that the details, even minimal, of this maneuver are known to Mr Juncker and Mr Moscovici, but the senators of the Italian Republic do not know them. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] Please avoid the apologies we have heard these days in the House and in the press releases of the Government and the majority, who would like us to believe that the embarrassing delay with which you presented the maxi amendment is a demonstration of your autonomy over the European Diktats. Unfortunately, everyone understands the truth and it is exactly the opposite. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] The problem is that the European Commission has left you so few free spaces that you have been fighting for weeks to decide how to fill them because the money is few and the promises are so many, probably too many. President Conte, we in this House have repeatedly - and we repeat this on this occasion - said that we would make a responsible, loyal and - I would say - patriotic opposition and that is what we continue to do, despite a thousand difficulties. Mr President, I would like to make one thing clear: if the country succeeds in avoiding the tragedy of the provisional exercise, it will be thanks to the sense of responsibility demonstrated by the oppositions within the Senate of the Republic and, in particular, thanks to the responsibility that we have shown even today when you, unfortunately, being absent, could not follow our debate. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and PD Groups]] Together with my colleagues from the Brothers of Italy Group who are part of the Commission - whom I thank - we have tabled dozens of collaborative and proposed amendments. They have asked you - I could say that we have advised you - not to make electronic invoicing compulsory, which has the sole purpose of collecting two billion euros from the portfolio of traders and craftsmen, who are already struggling to reach the end of the month, but it was all useless. We have proposed that you discuss the family quotient together, we have confirmed our proposal for incremental flat tax, which costs nothing and which would ensure that the State receives money. We have proposed that you think about reducing the tax wedge, because our idea is not to give money to those who are at home, but to put more money in the portfolio of those who work, whether it is a worker, an employee or an entrepreneur. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP Groups),]] But this appeal too, unfortunately, has been ignored. President Conte, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, we repeat that all the evil you think of the European Commission and the ten years of rigour, we think it is multiplied by two, three, five or ten times, because the policy that has followed Europe over the last decade has been the policy of deafness compared to the fact that the middle class has impoverished itself. The European Commission, made up of Euroburocrats, has been deaf to the pain of the social classes affected by globalisation. But we were expecting something different. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if you had asked us - let us remind you once again - for a commitment to cutting taxes, for families, for workers and for businesses, for a tax shock, if you had asked us for our commitment and our help for an extraordinary investment plan, both public and private, for the maintenance of our country, for high-tech investments, which are the future of Italy, we would have been at your side until the last breath. The problem is that, after months of announced battles, of journalistic wars and then of sufficiently shameful retreats, all this chaos that you have created, beyond the effects on the spread, on savings and on the stock exchange, served and served a single political objective: to guarantee to the Movimento 5 Stars the income of citizenship and thus guarantee the possibility of waving an electoral flag, although now worn out and bucherellata, because the income of citizenship will certainly not be that promised in the electoral campaign. This is the simple and sad truth. All the effort you put into a fake war with the European Union was simply and only to be able to announce from the balcony of Palazzo Chigi - blessed you! - the cancellation and repeal by the law of poverty and in order to be able to announce from the television screens the delivery of six million prepaid cards for the income of citizenship, to be delivered to as many citizens and voters. You have assumed the responsibility of transforming the budget law of the seventh most industrialized country in the world into a petty electoral operation: there is nothing more. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] There's nothing more to this maneuver, even if of course we'll check it at X-rays as soon as we have the chance. Mr President, I must remind you that a few days ago, at a conference organized by a right-wing foundation, undersecretary Giorgetti, probably a voice from the runaway sen, said that Italy likes citizenship income that it does not like. The problem is that you will, in the end, vote on it and we will not vote on it. You will vote for it even though you are fully aware of the damage it will cause, both in social and economic terms, for its recessive effects. Where has the expansive maneuver gone, Prime Minister Count and Minister Tria? We're having a hard time seeing her. Where did the tax cuts and the flat tax go? Please do not tell us that flat tax is the increase in the flat-rate scheme, which affects a few hundred thousand people, compared with millions and millions of VAT matches and entrepreneurs who will see taxes increase. We could talk for a long time about the promises you have been breaking these months, of which there is no trace in this maneuver. Mr Conte, I ask you once again: where is the expansive maneuver? We see only a short circuit, made by more taxes, less investment, a GDP that grows in a slim way, more debt and, above all, more distrust on the part of consumers and businesses. The most serious fact, even if it is the hardest to explain to the citizens and to those who listen to us, is your decision to sign the safeguard clauses, which are worth EUR 50 billion over the next two years. Compared to these, those provided by the Governments Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri are fresh water. President Conte, I believe you realize that you have decided to take over our country. You have become self-conscious, because anyone who has the adventure of governing Italy in December of next year will find itself starting from less than 23 billion euros, to which will easily have to add the lack of revenue deriving from the disposals of public goods. In fact, in Italy - children also know - everything that could be sold in public has already been sold, while what has remained is not sold for the simple reason that nobody wants to buy it. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] In addition, you must also add the fact that the resources allocated for next year for citizenship income cover nine months, while for 2020 the forecast is twelve months. Therefore, it is easy to imagine that anyone who will rule next year will start from less than EUR 25-30 billion, equal to 2 points of GDP to be recovered only in this direction. So, other than sovereignist maneuvering, return to national autonomy and first step of five years of government. With the constraints that you have entered into, there will no longer be any chance of doing anything in the coming years, because anyone who governs will not have the slightest fiscal or social freedom. The next budget will be written by the officials of the Ministry, because once the compulsory and current expenses are covered, there will be no more money for nothing. The political narrative with which you have obsessed us in recent years - 100th share and citizenship income - does not describe real Italy. It seems that Italy is divided between those who want to retire, legitimately, in advance and stop working and those who do not even want to start working. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] But this is not Italy. Italy is another thing, it is made by companies, by those who work, sacrifice, gets up early in the morning, studies, has a future and competes in international markets. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] You do not speak to this Italy, because it seems that you are not interested. You are concerned about distributing wealth, but it must first be created. Yours is a maneuver that has as its time horizon May 2019, as if the day after Italy were no longer there. You've thought about needs, but in this country there are also merits. In order to respond to needs, social policy must be used rather than welfare. Is it ethical to give a citizenship pension to those who have never paid a euro, taking away the money to those who have a pension of 1,000 euros after forty years of payments? Is this the novelty of the government's social policy of change? [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] Mr President, I shall conclude. Since we've been waiting until 1:00 a.m. to intervene, I think you'll give me another minute because we deserve it. I want to say one thing in conclusion. The Brothers of Italy Group and I personally recognize President Conte - I would like to say this publicly - that he had put his face in Brussels in the very difficult negotiations, which we believe was a great defeat, trying to limit the damage. We recognise that he did so on his own, because those who declared war on Europe stayed far from the battlefield at the time of surrender, humiliation and compromise. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] President Conte, our Group has given its willingness to improve the maneuver in a collaborative sense, but we have found a wall in front of it. The maneuver that you approved is not the one we had imagined and dreamed of and - above all - it is not the one for which we asked the citizens to vote. For us, engagement with citizens is a serious and important thing. Our vote can therefore only be against. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u116	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, authoritative Ministers and representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, have been very difficult weeks, days and hours in this House. The wound is deep. We believe that the Senate of the Republic and the Italian Parliament have been continually offended by your attitude, your way of doing things and your way of understanding politics. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this is the first time in the history of the Republic that a draft budget law has been drawn up totally and completely extra-parliamentary, which has not allowed the Commissions all, in particular the Budget Commission, as provided for in the Constitution, to deepen it. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have put yours: you have come to declare that you were sorry that you could not control Parliament; but you, who are an authoritative professor, know that there is a division of powers, you know that Parliament is autonomous, you know that Parliament has rights. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I believe that you, your Government, your Vice Presidents, your Ministers, have trampled these rights on many occasions over the past few weeks. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] I believe that violence has been used, in the last hours also physical, but, in these days, certainly political violence on your part. You have had very heavy attitudes; you have deliberately, with intent, with method, so that our Commissions, our Parliament, our Members, your Members could not know the maneuver that we are going to vote on this evening. [[Applause from the PD Group]] If there were doubts about this, they were escaped to the House a few minutes ago. I would like to thank Senator Tosato and Senator Dell'Olio, for their intervention has clearly, transparently, clearly demonstrated that not even the majority senators know the maneuver. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] They have made an unreal description of it; I cannot say false, because they did not know the maneuver, but they have demonstrated what is incredible, impossible in a parliamentary democracy. What you've done is very, very serious. I greatly appreciated Senator Bonino's words, because she warned us of your behavior, your way of being and your way of understanding politics. Be careful, you have also made a mistake in putting it against the European Commission: you have ridiculed us, you have ridiculed the country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I remember the words of Vice Prime Minister Di Maio from the balcony, when he abolished poverty. Many Italians still question this. I also remember the words of Vice Prime Minister Salvini, when he said that he would never fall back from the 2.4 percent deficit. I wonder: who did they represent when they spoke? Were they representing, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, your government? Or did they simply represent their fantasy or their desire to deceive the Italians? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Then I remember the words on the spread, overwhelming; remembering D'Annunzio (also proving that our Vice Premier have a culture adapted to the role they play), they said that they would care about the spread, that the spread did not interest anyone. "I don't care," were the words spoken by President Salvini. Why do I care? Because the money, many, the billions of euros thrown into the wind by his Government, to the detriment of the Italians, did not come from their pockets, were not in their interest. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Because the whole nation's interest is not, of course, your priority. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And then the offenses. I remember the offenses, too. President Salvini offended President Juncker. I am sorry that President Salvini is not here, but we must be careful. It is not correct and it is not fair, even from an ethical point of view, to offend people for rumors, also because the rumors concern everyone. Everyone has private life and, then, if you were to affirm the rumors as truth, maybe vice-premier Salvini should also be careful. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We're not from this game, because we don't follow the rumors. We do not offend the high institutional positions, either international, European or Italian. And perhaps President Salvini of you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, should be called upon to have institutional and personal respect. Again, everyone has something to hide. Let's remember that. Was it a way to divert attention from the many lies? So, let's remember Vice President Di Maio, with that funny list of fake news and lies about things done. I have a different list of the things you have done, Mr President. You certainly have increased unemployment after the decree of dignity. As Di Maio would say: done. Good. Congratulations. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, with the increase in the spread, have thrown many of the Italians' money into the wind: done. Congratulations, Mr. President. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have certainly increased the number of non-regular people by means of the Security Decree, as requested by Vice-Premier Salvini, and you have certainly increased lawlessness in this country: done. Congratulations, Mr. President. [[Applause from the FI-BP PD Groups]] Perhaps, on the one hand, there is no knowledge of the work of the enterprise by Minister Di Maio. Perhaps, on the other hand, on the part of Senator Vice President Salvini, there is the will to have a more insecure country, a country that is afraid, a country that calls and demands order. This is part of a dangerous plan that you, your Government and your Vice Presidents are carrying out! [[Applause from the FI-BP PD Groups]] And then there's this maneuver. This disastrous maneuver, dangerous for the future of our country, about which you continue to tell in a methodical, continuous, with great determination, many lies. There are businesses that struggle and you who increase taxes. There are the needs of the public car and you blocking the turnover. There is culture, school, university, research, which you penalise with great strength and determination. It won't be a coincidence. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Then there are the other measures, with the outrage against pensioners who take 1,500 euros gross, Mr President: 1,500 euro gross! You block their increases. You want to penalize them, and you want to fund your crazy measures with pensioners' money. I think this is really very serious! [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] We are not talking about IRAP, but we are talking, for example, about the voluntary service to which you have doubled taxes. Volunteering is boring to you; solidarity is annoying to you; it is boring to you because it is not in your ranks, because you want social tension, because you want a conflicting society where you fight to survive. Congratulations on all this! [[Applause from the PD Group]] VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. Bravo! Mr Marcucci (PD). But the members of the Democratic Party in the general debate have carefully analysed this shameful maneuver which, in the dark of Members tonight, you want us to approve in the middle of the night. But, Mr. Count, I have a doubt that I want to reveal to you. Why do you do this? Why this hatred of Italy and Italians? [[Applause from the PD Group]] You came to the country and said you'd be the people's lawyer. You're sinking this country! You want to deny the future to this country! You are making a dangerous maneuver, which undermines the development of this country, which will accentuate the crisis and the difficulties of this country, having made it kneel like never before the European Commission! [[Applause from the PD Group]] VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. Bravo! Mr Marcucci (PD). I apologise, Mr President, but after so many complicated situations these days, I would like to ask you two more minutes, which you have given everyone. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to have some answers on this. I would like to have answers from you, because we know the authoritarian vocation of Vice-Premier Salvini, we know the populist vocation of Vice-Premier Di Maio, but we want to know his motives: you, your men, allow me, your manipulations that have come to Parliament to humiliate Parliament on your behalf. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Minister Fraccaro has come to determine the blocking of the debate in the Commissions and does not come a minister at random. It is because the President-in-Office of the Council sends him to prevent the debate in the parliamentary Chambers. I think shame should cover your face on a sad evening for our country and our history. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I shall conclude, Mr President, by your will the timing of this parliamentary debate has been these. And I conclude, also to relax a little, with the words of an author who to us inhabitants of the Apennines are very dear and very dear is this author: You keep your acorns, leave your wings with us. The wings to fly again with this country, which we of the Democratic Party love, in which we believe and for which we will continue to fight defending it from your unholy politics. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr President, dear President-in-Office of the Council, authoritative representatives of the Government, the Democratic Party cannot accept this Parliamentary process that goes against the Constitutional Charter and against the rules. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We can't give our vote tonight. We will listen to all the debate and then we will not go under this bench to give credit for the shame and offense that you are bringing to this country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is not possible and we will give up the expression of our vote. [[Applause from the PD Group, standing up. Congratulations.]] MALPEZZI (PD). Shame!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u119	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Members of the Government, I would like to thank all the members of the Budget Committee, starting with the President, who have been here for more than ten days. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] I am here to move forward with the amendments, many of which are contained in the maxi amendment, bearing witness to Parliament's discussion of economic maneuvering. Beyond the apocalyptic scenarios evoked by the oppositions...by the way, since you began to say "forza spread" the spread has dropped... [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] You were almost certain of the infringement procedure and we begged you. These bad predictions make us think, if it is true that the rule is "there is no two without three" that our economy will grow in the next year. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] The task of the majority is to highlight the positive notes of the economic maneuver. Let's start with the family, which is a value for us: in recent years the fund for family policies of Palazzo Chigi had dropped, from 2008 to today, to 3.4 million. FADELI (PD). What family? VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. Di Maio's family? ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Well, we put EUR 100 million on this fund. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Similarly, we increase incentives for kindergartens, confirm the baby bonus, make structural those fundamental measures to help families, for a very simple reason: it is from the cradles that the future of our country depends. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] As has been said, funds are also provided for disabled people and those who are not self-sufficient. In the past maneuvers it was always necessary to chase - I was in the Lombardy Region, but who was in the Region also in other parts of Italy knows very well - the cuts: from transport to disabled people to the Fund for non self-sufficiency. No, this time we have EUR 100 million more on the non-self-sufficiency fund; EUR 100 million more on the disabled fund; EUR 100 million on the transport of people with disabilities, because for us it is not just immigrants. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Let's talk business. We are told that we have increased taxes because they went to see a scoreboard on the maneuver and they say they saw 5 billion euros more in 2019. Sorry, everyone should know that the effects of an economic maneuver are seen in the following year: you have to go to the table in 2020 what it says. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] It says -0.5 billion euros, confirming that we lower taxes. You lack the fundamentals to read the budget maneuver. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] They tell us that we have lost confidence in businesses. I have listened to the debate over the last few years on reducing labour costs. How many years have we said that it was necessary to reduce the cost of labour? Well, for the first time there is a government that, with the reduction of the INAIL prizes, the cut of the cost of the job does it really and seriously for 1.7 billion euros. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Not to mention the cutting of the Ires for the countervailable profits and for the young people who will eventually be summarized indefinitely; the reconfirmation of a large part of the Industry 4.0 package, testifying that when you seriously govern you do not throw away the measures that the previous governments have made. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from the PD Group]] The doubling of the deductibility of the IMU on the sheds (from 20 to 40%) goes precisely in the direction of the many industrial entrepreneurs who have suffered that tax that has certainly not been put by our government. [[Comments from Senator Bellanova.]] Then we talk about tax reforms, because I heard that flat tax (up to 65,000, 15%; then brought in 2020 up to 100,000 with taxation at 20%) is little thing: VAT matches, professionals, artisans, traders; among other things there is also the dry coupon for rents just to help businesses in difficulty. Well, the measure has been snubbed, not considered, diminished, and for what reason? Because professionals, craftsmen for years have been diminished: other than evaders; they are the ones pulling the car. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Only those who have maintained this country forever, we help them. Of course you can do more, but it's the first year; it's not that you can make all the flat tax. Did you say that you couldn't do it in a single year, and now you complain why we just started it? Make a little deal with each other, too. Let's talk about small professionals who have never lived with state subsidies, let's be clear. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] We cannot fail to mention the issue of investment which has been dealt with on more than one occasion: the revival of investment, which is not only the great works, of course, important, but not only those. For us they are important above all - we believe this is the true party of GDP - those small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who, thanks to the measures we have included in the maneuver, will begin to open the yards in order to secure in our territories schools, hospitals, courts, bridges, roads; the maintenance of the existing. ( [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] After all, how do we take lessons on investment from who put 4.5 billion last year and eventually spent zero? On the other hand, we help the municipalities: a billion is worth only unlocking the administrative surplus, 250 million to the provinces so distracted (then we complain that there are schools that go to pieces); we must not forget then the bonus for the local authorities (400 million included in the maxi amendment, which constitute a support and aid to the municipalities up to 20,000 inhabitants); the unblocking of the funding that has reminded us well the undersecretary Garavaglia for the Regions (80 billion euros): there was an open dispute that we resolved. Resources for regions and local authorities that have been plundered in the past years. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] And instead this time not only there are no cuts, but we even help him, we help our territory. It is right who said in this House - always, if I remember correctly, undersecretary Garavaglia - that while in France there are yellow vests, here we will have orange vests for all the yards that will be opened soon and that will make gross domestic product, this moves the economy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] And then we arrive, dulcis in the end, obviously at the 100 quota, so reproached by the members of the minority: with this measure we can say that a great victory has really materialized of the negotiation that our country has led with Europe, because if you remember well, in March, shortly after the elections, the European Commission intervened to say that you could not touch the Fornero reform, because our pension expenditure was too high. This was the warning, the warning of the European Commission. Well, in recent days we have seen something different: from an untouchable reform, we have moved on to the statements of the Commissioner of the European Union, Mr Moscovici, who had to admit that the European Union does not call into question the pension reform that is due to the Italian Government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] , recognizing that national sovereignty so indigestible to those who spoke of crises induced to force States to surrender national sovereignty. We remember that. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] No more crises, this is absolutely a victory for Italy, also because I have heard of reverse - of course I too, President, ask for a couple of more minutes, because I would not like to be less than my colleague - I have heard that someone even used the expression 'thrown away' elegantly. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I can say that today if anyone has to beat the retreat, and we recommend that it be quiet because we are good, it is those who approved the wretched Fornero reform. You're gonna have to retreat. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] And all those parties that voted for her, nothing but dirty about this maneuver. Let us remember in the past what has happened and let us take all the responsibilities. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] It is obvious that our maneuver is not a perfect maneuver, because no maneuver can be perfect. [[Ironic comments from the PD Group.]] However, we can reasonably think that this is a better manoeuvre than many others we have seen in the past. BITI (PD). But you don't believe it either! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). In wishing everyone - the majority, the minority, the government, all Italian citizens - a good party by the Lega Group, we announce our vote in favour of this manoeuvre. We believe in it, and we will always do everything for the good of the country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u122	PICHETTO FRATIN (FI-BP). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today represents and has unfortunately closed a path, a procedure that has mortified Parliament, in its greatest expression of representation of the Italian people, both in this House and in the Commission's path. So, he has mortified those very citizens who are frequently cited. Colleagues, I am a member of the Budget Commission and, together with other colleagues, I have lived for the past fifteen days in an open debate on the many issues of this jagged rule of hundreds of paragraphs, but also measuring in opposition and in the majority - although it is not officially stated - a state of frustration with regard to the role that the Parliament of the Republic, as a maximum expression, must have. [[Applause from the FI-PD and PD Groups.]] Unfortunately, it is a path of handstroke, started yesterday afternoon at 2:00 p.m.; a measure with many issues, some promises, many betrayals. A jagged measure, full of contradictions, without a political plan, as stated in the various interventions of yesterday's day the president of our Bernini Group, without a plan of the country. More money on the one hand, more money on the other, more money taken from those who work hard or from those who have worked and enjoy a few euros of pension. The pride of the poor, to whom, with one of those measures of the measure announced and the subject of your contract, you are now giving alms, you are trampling it. To honor a part of this contract, an electoral promise, you trample on the dignity and pride of many Italian families [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , of many families living with the so-called minimum pension, of many families that cannot pay taxes and rates of their home. We believe in a government that should set an example and address, and it is right that those with a majority of governments should do so. However, we would have liked young people, the great ones ignored by this maneuver, to be given a hope, a promise of a path of formation, study and work. Instead, we have a cut in research funding. We would have liked to have given a promise of work, instead of a promise of EUR 780 that calculates well on the six million subjects to which they were promised, they have become EUR 83. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Believe me, it is not to make demagogy: the hope of young people is also the hope of their families, therefore also of all those elders who, in the present society, help and keep young people [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , because the families of young people would not resist. Our social structure, the social structure of this country, even more in the South and perhaps a little less in our North, has as its reference the family social structure and the heritage, the home. Italy is a founding country of the European Union. The reasons for the delays have been attributed to the negotiation and the pull-and-drop with the European Union. Italy - I said - is a founding country; who speaks to you and the Group from which I speak is a Group that says and that has said several times in this House that it is right to discuss with the European Union, it is right to treat, but, as a founding country, it is also right to discuss the rules. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] So let us have the courage, as a country, to realize that the rules of twenty years ago are no longer applicable today, except for the convenience of other countries and other nations. I use the term "Nation" and I also use it proudly. The government cannot use Europe to harm its citizens, because it stops at the negotiating part at the last moment; that is what we charge to the government. The negotiation of the last month (it is true that it is fashionable the last kilometer or the last meter) has involved the dissipation of 300 billion capitalization, that is the savings of the Italians, the savings of the Italian people, in a pull and spring with Europe. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Now announce that in 2019 you will buy a part of this people, of our people, with a form that is not yet known to identify: the 780 euros, with a model that we do not know. At the same time, the other people who work are mortified. Perhaps it is necessary to take them by the hand, to accompany them and to take them to work, not to receive the electoral contribution. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] What democracy do we have, if the government's objective is no longer the good of the people, but the exercise of the punishment of those who are not in your dreams or interests, but only in your electoral convenience? That's the question. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We would like and would be proud to oppose a government maneuver that, different from our thinking and different from how we would like to do it, was at least a maneuver with a country plan, not a contract. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The issues, the major issues are certainly the income of citizenship, which has already been discussed and which, as many of us say, is an insult, a model of propaganda of the moment, certainly compared to those who work. Colleagues, the other leg is the revision of the Fornero law, which is a poorly constructed and costly norm for working people. This revision was and is part of the electoral programme of the center-right, therefore of Forza Italia. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We will evaluate the proposal without prejudice. The government announced in September that there would be 1.5% growth; on the basis of all the indicators, we in this House opposed the assumption that it was not possible. Today it is reviewed at 1%, 9 billion less; 9 billion are 300,000 jobs, 300,000 families. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We are a country that needs infrastructure and to keep what it has. We welcome what Mr Garavaglia has said in this House and what is perhaps readable from the document (which we have received today and which we will then look at in a closed box, after it has been approved) about interventions in favour of local authorities and maintenance. But we can only mark the backward step on investment and - let me say, I come from the North - the fact that investments already started, such as the TAV, are stopped. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The government now announces that it will make an extra billion decommissions. A clarification: if they are a fiction, you risk misusing the postal savings of the Italians. If they are true, we are careful not to give the last blow to the Italian real estate market, to the value of Italy's real estate, which could really be devastating. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Neera was given one for 3 billion in 2012 and the effects were probably equal to almost 100 billion less revenues for the state. You will say, "So what? Then at this time the result is 23 billion more VAT in 2020 and 29 in 2021 to cover the 2019 restriction. We would also have liked to consider an intervention on VAT, but with a contextual assessment of the reduction, even if not in the form of flat tax, of the IRPEF. This was the design of the center-right and this is the design that we hope our colleagues in our electoral coalition (and currently in your government coalition) will carry forward. It is a maneuver of chance, not only for the taxes on games, for the cuts on the railways, on the co-financing of the European Union, which must therefore be multiplied, the cuts on the Development and Cohesion Fund. Colleagues, if we appreciate the action that the Government has taken on certain areas, such as security, we cannot fail to point out that the part of economic policy that concerns the social policy of this country is not appreciated. If you cannot re-launch the country with the budget, do it with the rules at least: do not force the dismissal after twenty-four months due to the decree dignity, do not have the shops closed on Sundays, make sure that at least with the rules you can work and produce. For these reasons the vote of the Forza Italia-Berlusconi Group President will be against. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Fedeli. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u125	PARAGO (M5S). Mr President, someone wanted to impose a maneuver on us with a deficit-to-GDP ratio of 1.6%, but it did not succeed because this is a maneuver written in Italy, made in Italy, and it is not made in Europe. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Someone had an interest in pushing us towards the provisional budget year, but he misjudged the calculations and failed. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] Someone wanted the people not to have the opportunity to say: now it is our turn, now it is our turn and it has not succeeded, because for the Government of change the people are sovereign. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Europe, moreover, could not write this maneuver, simply because it knows only the grammar of austerity and dear professors, dear opponents, you now speak the same language of austerity, the same language of Europe, so you cannot understand this maneuver. If Europe had only half of the social sensitivity that characterizes this manoeuvre, it would not live today the social and popular crisis that is before everyone's eyes. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] The revolt of yellow vests is the revolt of the new miserable ones, those crushed by austerity, the new miserable ones created by the short circuit between a globalization without rules, for which you were cheering, and the fanaticism of the market and financial. Ladies and gentlemen, we went to Brussels, yes, but we went to indicate a new route, which is the social route. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Who created the social breakup is now apologizing: Macron, your new guru, is bowing to the will of the people, because when the people impose a negotiation they have already begun to win. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Citizenship income and 100 share are the opposite of what Europe would have wanted. Not dictation; having a financial stability, without a social stability, means driving at high speed, to lights off in the night, means going to crash and this we for Italy and the Italians do not want it. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Dear opposition, dear opponents, one day you will thank us for protecting Italy from social tensions, because a country in turmoil cracks any financial balance. This maneuver, if I had to and could picture it with an icon, I would picture it as a stretched hand, which we tend to those who try to get up, to those who seek comfort. What is the income of citizenship, which so much does not like these gentlemen, but another chance that we offer? You can play with magical subtractions, but the only number is 7.1 billion for income and citizenship pensions. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] You have left us 5 million poor; we cannot forget it, it is not a free den all. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the PD Group]] Now with what voice do you want to give lessons in social equity? With the same voice you're defending the Senate after you wanted to cut him off? [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the PD Group]] You have left us an audience of invisible pensioners who go to pick up the goods at the bottom of the markets and this is deeply unfair, dear gentlemen. You have left us this audience of invisible pensioners and we will give him the minimum pension of 780 euros. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] You have been ordered by Europe to reform pensions, the notorious Fornero reform, unjust, cruel and unfair. We change it, even if Europe does not like it. You wrote under the dictation of Europe that reform, we delete it with the will of the people. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] MARGIOTTA (PD). Liar! PARAGO (M5S). You have never touched the golden pensions, perhaps not to upset the sensitivity of your friends, and it is up to us to hear on television the crying of people who say that they no longer know how to live with a golden pension of 4,000 or 5,000 euros. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the PD Group]] Who has to say enough to this injustice? To the 5 Star Movement and this Government. You have given us an increasingly distant health care and with the investments planned in this maneuver we will drastically reduce the waiting time and we will do other things to shore up a health care that must be public. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] And what about cheated savers. It took this government to put a billion and a half in a fund to compensate for the scams of the banks; fifteen times more than the one previously allocated. Do you have the courage to deny it? You used to start with the bankers, we pay back the savers. [[Protests from the PD Group. Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] And we give savers the opportunity to compete against the Bank of Italy, Consob and the banks, because we don't have friends to defend, to cover or relatives to protect. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] As well as we did not have outside the door lobbyists asking to change the maneuver. You said there was no investment; we planned an important fund to carry out works that are of interest to the everyday lives of citizens. Dear citizens, demand from your mayors the works you really ask for, from the streets to the safety of school buildings or other infrastructure. And you, dear mayors, now finally have the money to do those works that your fellow citizens ask for. MIRABELLI (PD). Where's all this money? PARAGO (M5S). Spend it for the good of your fellow citizens and not for the appetites of friends or signs of entrepreneurs, also because with the corrupt sweep the manger is closed. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group.]] Did you say that there is nothing for entrepreneurs and businesses and who has put in place the payment of debts of the public administration? [[Comments of Senators Malpezzi and Valente]] Now, if anyone wants to make a pilgrimage, they're free to do it because now that money is there. CHOIR OF VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Condon! Condon! PARAGO (M5S). We brought the deductibility of the IMU to the sheds from 20 to 40 percent. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Well, we are pleased that finally the center-left who has not been able to write a social maneuver so far has the courage to speak. [[Protests from the PD Group.]] We did the flat tax and we started the tax review process. We did this for a crowd of very small entrepreneurs and for VAT matches. There is the cut of the rates INAIL. [[Vivacious protests from the PD Group]] Mr Laus (PD). Cheaters! Mr Verducci (PD). Shame! PARAGO (M5S). There are incentives for those who hire and those who excel in university studies. There's the South bonus and so much more. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a change of pace. [[Comments from the PD Group]] This is the beginning of a maneuver with the strong social density that the left once could write while now is no longer able to do so. CHOIR OF VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Condon! Condon! Mr Laus (PD). Buffoons! PARAGO (M5S). This is a maneuver all written in Italy; it bears the brand of Made in Italy. This is the maneuver of change and for this reason the Movimento 5 Star Group says yes. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] [[Comments from the PD Group]] . Some Senators of the FI-BP Group display signs with the inscription "Poverty for all": fact ". The Senators of the PD Group leave the Chamber). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please pull down the signs. M5S GROUP CHOIR OF VOICES. Honesty! Honesty!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u126	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,9000 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing Article 1 of Law No 981, on the approval of which the Government raised the question of trust. Pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. They asked to vote first, and I granted it, Senators Bongiorno, Bossi Umberto, Carbone, D'Alfonso and Salvini. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator La Mura is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator La Mura. NISINI, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators answered: Abbot, Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Anastasi, Angrisani, Arrigoni, Auddino, Agugussori Bagnai, Barbaro, Bergesio, Bongiorno, Borghesi, Borgonzoni, Bossi Simone, Bossi Umberto, Bottici, Botto, Briziarelli, Bruzzone, Buccarella Calderoli, Countryside, Campari, Candiani, Cantù, Cario, Casolati, Castaldi, Castellone, Castiello, Catalfo, Centinario, Cioffi, Coltorti, Corbetta, Crimi, Croatti, Crucioli D'Angelo, De Bonis, De Lucia, De Vecchis, Dell'Olio, Dessco, Di Girolamo, Di Marzio, Di Nicola, Di Piazza, Donno, Drago Endrizzi, Evangelista, De Lucy, De Vicola, Fattori Flori Flori, Flori, Flori, Flori, Flori, Flori, Flori, Flori, Flori, Flori, Flori, Flori, Flori Senators say no: Aimi, Alderisi Balboni, Barachini, Barboni, Battistoni, Berardi, Bernini, Bertacco, Berutti, Biasotti, Binetti, Bressa Caliendo, Cangini, Carbone, Casini, Cesaro, Ciriani, Conzatti, Craxi Dal Mas, Damiani, De Bertoldi, De Petris, De Poli, De Siano, Durnwalder Errani Fantetti, Fazzolari, Fazzone, Ferro, Floris Gallone, Gasparri, Giammanco, Giro, Grasso Iannone La Pietra, La Russa, Laforgia, Lonardo Mafffoni, Mallegni, Mangialavori, Marsilio, Martelli, Masini, Messina Alfredo, Minuto, Modena, Moles Nas Nastri Pagano, Papatheu, Paroli, Pichetto Fratin Quagliariello Rauti, Rizzotti, Ronzulli, Rossi, Rus, Rus, Ruspanni Sten Sten Sccini, Modenato, Modenato, Modenato, Modena, Modena, Modena, Modena, Moto, Molto, Moto, Molto, Moles, Moles, Molestri, Moles, Moles, Moles, Molestri The senators are abstaining: De Falco, Lanièce, Monti. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,9000 (correct text), presented by the Government, entirely replacing Article 1 of bill 981, on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust: [[Senators present 249 Senators voting 248 Majority 123 Favorable 167 Contrari 78 Absent 3]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] All the amendments and agendas presented in Article 1 of the draft law are therefore not included. Ladies and gentlemen, since all the articles in the draft law have been examined, the Government will now have to draw up the corresponding Note of Variations, which will be sent to the Senate as soon as possible. The 5th Permanent Commission is now authorized to convene for the examination of this document and then to report back to the Assembly. Pending the presentation by the Government of the Note of changes to the budget, I suspend the session. (The sitting was suspended at 2.37 a.m. and resumed at 2.59 p.m.) (2:59) Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance presented the Second Note of changes to the State budget for the financial year 2019 and the multi-annual budget for the three-year period 2019-2021, with which the Government introduced into the text of the bill and annexed tables the changes resulting from the determinations adopted by the Senate when examining the first section. This note was referred to the 5th Permanent Commission. President Pesco has the right to comment on the conclusions adopted by the 5th Permanent Commission on the Second Note of Variations.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u127	Mr President, this is the Second Note of changes to the forecast budget of the State for the financial year 2019 and for the three-year period 2019-2021, designed to transpose the effects of the amendments approved by the Senate to the draft budget law. It should be noted that the above Note updates the accounting values of Article 16 (Total general expenditure) of the draft budget law and involves changes: to the general summary frameworks for the three-year period 2019-2021 in terms of competence and cash; to the estimates of revenue (Table 1) and to all estimates of expenditure by the Ministries (Tables 2 to 14). As a result, amendments are also made to the relevant technical annexes by chapters. The prospectuses are organised by voting units and the technical annexes present the entire budget of the State and with evidence of the units and chapters that have changed due to the amendments to the bill; the variations related to the amendments approved are set out in appropriate columns, separately for Section I and Section II.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u128	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Second Note of Variations. With the approval of the Note of Variations, the text on which the Senate pronounced itself in the previous stages of the procedure, in reference to both the articles of the bill and the annexed tables, will be modified accordingly. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Second Note of variations. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 981, as a whole, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[v. Annex B. Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups, whose senators stand up.]] Colleagues, as we wanted to prove, we voted on Sunday morning early. [[Laughter and applause]] Therefore, I wish you good morning, have a good return home, wish you all a very good return, even if what this invitation should have been addressed to is not present in this House. Are you kidding me? At 3:05, there would be eight late-session speeches... that we'll do in the year 2019. [[Laughter and applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u129	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-77.ana.u130	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday 9 January 2019, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 3.06 p.m. on Sunday 23 December.
