ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.35 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 18 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u3	I inform you that the following draft law has been presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 119 of 23 October 2018 laying down urgent provisions in tax and financial matters" (886).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u4	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u7	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking out of a fact of conscience about a gruesome episode that is raising the indignation of the world, with statements, attitudes and decisions that, one after the other, are involving all the world's partners: the other European governments and even the United States and Russia. I am talking about the assassination of journalist Jamal Khashoggi, a Saudi dissident kidnapped and killed; according to news confirmed here again this morning, kidnapped, killed and destroyed - indeed, according to some surveys, made to pieces still alive - after which his body was dispersed, and some pieces were found today - it seems - in the well of the consulate. I intervene because this episode is certainly not the only one, but it is the one that is raising the indignation of the world towards a regime and its murder practices. Moreover, in justifying the death of the journalist, after having repeatedly denied it, the regime said that there is a plan to kidnap all dissident citizens abroad and bring them back to their homeland, where, where they arrived alive (and Khashoggi did not come alive), they would be sentenced to death. This is the official version. Well, in view of this, while today the so-called Davos opens in the desert, that all international speakers (entrepreneurs, economists and representatives of the institutions) have deserted to manifest the indignation and condemnation of the world for what happened, I do not see that our institutions, our Ministry of Foreign Affairs and our Government have spent - and twenty-two days of global indignation - a convincing official word. On the contrary, I understand that yesterday the President-in-Office of the Council, a citizen's lawyer (of course only Italians), in an intervention in the foreign press, answered a specific question in an evasive manner. I quote: "It is a very serious case (...) we would like to have the confidence in ourselves before confronting our European partners and Trump. Too bad that the European partners and Trump himself, obviously with much more weight, have already intervened and repeatedly decisively and determinedly, with official condemnation notes; one of the European partners (which I do not like, but is the most important European partner), Germany, has suspended the sale of arms to Saudi Arabia and calls for a European directive to do so. [[Recalls of the President]] Mr President, I am sorry, but I do not think it is a matter of secondary importance in what is the Homeland of Civilizations.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u8	It certainly isn't, and that's why I've already given you six minutes. I invite you to synthesize.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u9	I hope that at least this Parliament, if our Government does not think so, will dedicate a minimum of reflection to this martyr of freedom and information, because it was also - and not by chance - a journalist who wrote about "The Washington Post": kidnapped, tortured, torn to pieces and then killed in the consulate of his country. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u10	Thank you, Senator Urso. I am sure that your appeal will not remain unanswered.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u13	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, we as a Democratic Party want to strongly stigmatize the absence of a position by the Italian Government. I say this with the knowledge that several days have passed and this is one of the most disturbing events that has happened in recent years within a consular headquarters, to the detriment of a dissident journalist of opposition, as there are many unfortunately in these regimes. It hits the absence of the Italian voice in the face, instead, of an intervention decided by the United States. I remember that the United States is the country that has the closest relationship with Saudi Arabia, which is their main partner in the theatre of the Arabian Peninsula. The United States has the main military bases there and with Saudi Arabia they have built the anti-Iran front. Even in the strategy - controversial and in which Italy was in the middle - of these days, aimed at de facto blowing up the nuclear agreement, Saudi Arabia was the main partner. Despite all this, Trump has taken a very tough position, asking his ministers - especially the Treasury Minister - not to participate in the summit that Senator Urso mentioned earlier, as well as the main representatives of European governments and not only (you could also mention the words of a leader who certainly does not lack Realpolitik, like Vladimir Putin). What happened in Italy instead? There has been no statement by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and President Conte has in practice merely said: We will check with our allies. Maybe he missed the agencies. Trump has already intervened for a long time: he asked for explanations and phones every day to Erdogan. More and more gruesome details come out every day, including the misdirections by the secret services. We strongly demand that the Government intervene and that President Conte not be the assistant of his two Vice Premier: when he speaks of "allies" I do not know whether he refers to the international allies or to his two leaders, the two Vice Premier. We strongly call for the Government to take a position, starting with the President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, on a matter to be totally and forcefully condemned, concerning a journalist who did his work and was executed - because of this - in hallucinating circumstances within a diplomatic headquarters. For this reason, the Italian Government cannot ignore anything. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u16	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we too want to speak on the terrible story of the Saudi dissident Jamal Khashoggi, first of all to point out that he was not justified. In fact, this word contains the term "justice." Khashoggi was executed, which is a different thing; not only that, he was first tortured and then torn apart, as my colleague Mr Urso also mentioned. We are talking about an important figure, collaborator of the daily newspaper "The Washington Post". As we know, he disappeared on 2 October last within the Consulate of Saudi Arabia in Istanbul, where he simply went to request the release of a document. This is an action that we call absolutely cowardly and I believe that the indignation of the world must be united with that of Italy. We are talking about a bloody regime and we must react. Our government's reaction was shy and lukewarm and we need to do more. Italy has been too silent on this issue for too long. Germany suspended the sale of arms to Saudi Arabia, while Trump intervened very strongly to condemn this criminal act. I think we must do absolutely our duty. How? First of all, institutional representatives must cancel meetings, conferences and meetings organized by Saudi Arabia, starting with the so-called Davos meeting in the desert, at least until this fact is clarified. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u17	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the Institute including "Rende-Commenda" of Rende, in the province of Cosenza, who are attending our work. Thank you for your visit. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u18	The next item is the debate on draft law No 510. The rapporteur, Senator Giarrusso, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u19	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, the vote on political-mafia exchange is one of the most serious crimes that can be committed in a democracy. It is attentive to the freedom of vote, the effective representativeness of the institutions and the exercise of sovereignty by citizens. The crime of voting for political-mafia exchange attentive to the very life of democracy. It is no coincidence, colleagues, that this crime was introduced into our system for the first time in 1992, at a time when what ours brought the most ferocious attack to the heart of the State, massacred Giovanni Falcone, Paolo Borsellino and the men who protected them. The crime of political-mafia exchange vote is introduced following the work of Giovanni Falcone [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] , which before being killed was working at the Ministry precisely on these changes to be introduced in the Code, in particular the amendment of Article 416- bis of the Criminal Code, concerning the crime of Mafia association, precisely to introduce its current third paragraph which states that it is typical expression of the Mafia association the aim of preventing or hindering the free exercise of the vote or of obtaining votes to itself or to others during electoral consultations. This insertion in the penal code was connected, immediately after, in a strong and powerful way, with Article 416-b. The first paragraph of Article 416-b designed by Giovanni Falcone provided for the connection of the sentence between 416-a and 416-b: the politician who had agreed with the mobster to have the votes would have suffered the same penalty as the associate with the thighs. That, ladies and gentlemen, was the 1992 text. But the political class of 1992 betrayed Falcone and approved a limp rule, as the doctrine said; they did not have the courage to approve all the norm that John Falcone had prepared. And you know - many of you were here in the last parliamentary term - that there was an attempt and demand to reform this crime in the last parliamentary term, to overcome that so-called limp rule. Well, that remedy was worse than evil. Only twenty days after the adoption of the reform of Article 416-b, which took place in the last legislature, the Supreme Court boiled the new rule with a mark of infamy - let me tell you - speaking as a rule more favorable to the deed. [[Applause from Senator Airola]] We must remember that in this House! Falcone was betrayed again. Now, with this text, we include again in the code the link between Article 416-a and the political-mafia-exchange vote, namely the idea of John Falcone. But let's do more: we had the courage to go all the way, to do what Giovanni Falcone asked us to do: to extend the punitive case to all that universe of behaviors that characterize the agreement between politics and the mafia. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In fact, the new wording takes into account not only the provision of money or the promise of money or other utility, but we add to it another utility that word that you did not have in the last legislature, they did not have the courage to put: "any other utility, which is no small difference. We have also fought on this text in the last parliamentary term on a single word. But not only that: we also consider the willingness to meet the interests or needs of the Mafia association. This element, together with the others, complements the case from the point of view of the behaviour attributable to the politician who agrees with the mafias in order to obtain the votes. In addition, through the text we have hesitated in the Commission, we extend criminality also to those who commit this crime through intermediaries, in order to avoid the shame we have seen with the old rule of seeing politicians - we have to say - acquitted by the political-mafia exchange vote and condemned, instead, their bag holders. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The second paragraph of the new text of Article 416-b, then, puts at the same penalty the one who promises to obtain votes and, therefore, the person belonging to the thighs that agrees with the politician or the intermediary to commit the crime. In addition, the third paragraph of the same Article provides for a case which leads to an increase of half the penalty. It is an important increase, it is not just an aggravating one: it is an autonomous one. The penalty is increased by half because in that case, i.e. if the politician is elected, the objective of the thighs provided for in the third paragraph of Article 416-a would be achieved: democracy dies when a politician is elected by the votes of the mobsters! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We must remember this in this House, where governments have voted by one senator, and subsequently accused of being paid for that vote. You imagine that damage can produce mafias by bringing even one senator or one congressman to Parliament, which can determine the fate of our country. That is why there is serious, serious and important punishment. In addition, in the course of the debate, it was necessary, precisely on this point, to point out that the election must of course take place for that electoral round in which the votes were exchanged between the politician and the thugs. An amendment to my signature was therefore tabled to specify this point. I would like to thank the President and the Members of the Commission for the excellent work we have done in drafting this rule, laying down, in my opinion, the basis for finally having in the code an instrument that can cut off, once again, the relations between politics and the mafia, putting fear to those who want to agree with the mafia to have the vote. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u20	We should start the general discussion on the measure, but in fact the meeting of the Group presidents is starting right now and so, as is practice and also given the specific request made by a Group president, I suspend the sitting until the work of the Conference of Group leaders is completed. (The sitting was suspended at 5 p.m. and resumed at 6 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are dealing with today certainly sees a protagonist in the exegesis of the recent history of this Republic and which has a very precise name, Giovanni Falcone, today in fact excessively drawn for the jacket by the rapporteur, although I understand - and I am witness to this, for the commitment he showed in the Commission - that this issue is particularly appassionate. And although it has also brought him some winning arguments, honestly the fact that one tries by Movimento 5 Stars to say that they are the continuers of the thought of John Falcone seems to me something exaggerated. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] We are talking about Article 416-b of the penal code that is amended by this bill and then like today - I say then referring to the previous legislature, in which I was not there - if we go to see the results and the evolution of this bill, the deployments are the same: on the one hand the judicialists and on the other the guarantors. Then I will say why we are faced with the paradox of the heterogenesis of the ends: I refer to the unintended results compared to those evidently proposed by Senator Giarrusso intended to obtain with this bill. But let's go by order. First of all, we are talking about an amendment to an article in the penal code introduced in 1992 by the decree-law Martelli-Scotti, then amended and novelized in 2014. The difference between a judicialist and a judicialist is not, because it belongs to another category, it is obviously the distinction between who uses the statement of suspicion and the culture of suspicion to make it not only an inditator's argument, but a subject of proof. It's all there. For us the evidence is formed in court on facts; obviously here we have used this premise extensively: suspicion as a simple electoral promise and already a subject of proof. This is dangerous, as we will demonstrate later in the course of the debate and the illustration... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u22	I would ask my fellow Members to lower their voices so that they can finish their speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u23	BY MAS (FI-BP). ............................................................................................................................................................................................ Beyond all this, for the guarantors a standard of this fact presupposes at least greater attention, especially when it is assumed and demanded on our part that there be proof of the exchange, which otherwise makes everything vague, all uncertain and all impalpable and therefore absolutely discretionary. This is demonstrated in practice so sometimes a statement by a pigeon or a boss was enough to crack some political careers, perhaps denouncing a fact that happened who knows where and who knows when. Senator Giarrusso made a punctual reconstruction from his point of view, but in 2013 it seems to me that the first text approved in the Chamber of Deputies - you will certainly correct me - had a phrase that was more similar to a proximity to the facts. In the rule approved at first reading in the Chamber of Deputies, which in that case obtained a broad consensus - we are talking about 2013 and not about a geological era ago - it was said: Anyone who knowingly accepts the adoption of votes in accordance with the procedure laid down in the third paragraph of Article 416-a... of the Criminal Code. In practice we were referring to the mafia method, which you are going to expunge today, to remove from the legislation. That is the point, dear Senator Giarrusso, because that rule, which at that time had a broad consensus, was then modified to the Senate, on the basis of a non-clear competition that was then between you and the Democratic Party and that led to the current wording, which today is reworded, of Article 416-b. Compared to that wording, which is acceptable to us, you have removed the adverb consciously and introduced the elusiveness of the promise, and that is, anyone who accepts the promise of obtaining votes is ipso facto guilty. I see that I am running out of time, and so I am forced to speed up to reach the conclusions, but there are two things that are absolutely clear in the proposal we are debating today that are truly unique. The first is the attack on the chosen one, which leads to an increase in sentence of up to 50 percent. Basically, if it were to be proved by chance that the chosen one accepted a promise and his election is not determined by that fact, but he would still be elected, he risks a greater penalty than the murder... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u24	There's been a problem with the times. Let's let the senator finish his speech. BY MAS (FI-BP). Of course, Mr President, I had just said that I was about to conclude my speech and so I merely recall the contradiction with the penalty applied and this exaggerated aggravating circumstance. It would have sufficed to write that the penalty has increased and we know that the increase, if it is not specified, can take place up to a third and I think it is in itself sufficient. And then, another fact, does such a circumstance apply in any case or is an etiological connection necessary? If, in fact, it should be applied in any case, we enter into the contradiction I said before; if, instead, it were necessary to establish an etiological connection, we would be faced with a diabolical probatio. Actually, dear proposer, Senator Giarrusso... president. Conclude, please. BY MAS (FI-BP). However, I believe that this House has the opportunity to improve the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u25	[[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u26	Colleagues, there are approximately two hours of general discussion. Each speaker shall have ten minutes at his disposal. Please stay in time. She is registered to speak Senator Mantovani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to begin my speech by talking about the mafias in the North, and especially the mafias in my region, Emilia-Romagna. In Reggio Emilia, the largest Mafia trial ever carried out in the North is taking place. The Aemilia trial began in 2015 with 240 defendants, accused of belonging and collusion to a single clan of the 'ndrangheta. Last October 16, a week ago, the one hundred and ninety-fiveth and last hearing took place. The final judgments of the Cassation, that is those of the abbreviated rite that took place in Bologna, will arrive tomorrow, 24 October, while the first judgments of the ordinary rite, held in Reggio Emilia, will arrive in November. There are 200 charges: ranging from extortion to threats, from wear and tear to the fictitious heading of goods, from fake in the balance sheet to auction disturbance, from illegal possession of weapons to the issuance of false invoices, from the caporalate and exploitation of labour to money laundering, to the most serious crime: the Mafia criminal association. The investigation involves police forces, officials and managers of public administrations, journalists and freelancers, a city councilman, entrepreneurs, builders, tax advisors. But at the center of everything are the leaders and men of Nicolino Grande Aracri's thigh. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u28	Colleagues, I understand that the general discussion is always a particular moment, but either you lower your voice and please the speaker to talk or sit outside and continue with personal speeches. Thank you. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u29	Thank you, President. I was saying that at the center of this trial are the leaders and men of Nicolino Grande Aracri's thigh and Nicola Sarcone, originally from Cutro, in the province of Crotone. This cosca of the 'ndrangheta belongs not only to the current Calabrian, but it belongs mainly to the current of our lives in the North. It has, in fact, been settled in Emilia for more than twenty-five years. For decades, local Emilian administrators have underestimated this situation. Already in 2008, in front of the alarms launched by anti-mafia associations and by us, then Meet Up Grilli Reggiani, they turned on the other side and said that Emilia had antibodies. In fact, mafia cancer had already crept into our society through the mafia of gray collars, entrepreneurs and free professionals from Emilia, doc, who had no problem doing business with men of the thighs. It ended with the municipality of Brescello dissolved for mafia infiltrations. How to forget, then, the not edifying electoral visits to Cutro of the candidates to mayor of Reggio Emilia in 2009 for the celebrations of the patron; visits criticized by associations and anti-mafia prosecutors. There went then the mayor of Reggio Emilia, Graziano Delrio; there went the candidate to mayor of Forza Italia. The candidate mayor of the 5 Star Movement did not go there - it should be noted -. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] The prosecutors immediately clarified that we were no longer faced with the simple infiltration of a clan of the 'ndrangheta in the North, but with its roots, and not only in Emilia, since the activities were also carried out in other regions, such as Veneto and Lombardy. The defendants in the Aemilia trial are contested 416-bis, i.e. membership of a mob association. Among the suspects there are not only the alleged members of the clan, but also all those seemingly normal people who turned to that clan: to evade taxes, to increase profits, to make a good life, to have cash immediately available and to win contracts. The business tour had mainly to do with the construction sector and a substantial part of the investigation concerns contracts for reconstruction after the 2012 earthquake between Reggio and Modena. They are accused not only of entrepreneurs, some of whom laugh at the tragedy of the earthquake, but also white collars accused of not excluding companies from the white list. The investigators also claim to have documented activities in support and attempts to influence some local elections in different municipalities, with the aim of having more control and influence over the institutions. After the 2014 municipal elections of Reggio Emilia there was a conviction for electoral fraud on the basis of a complaint by our city councilwoman, Alessandra Guatteri. In the mega trial Aemilia there is no crime of voting for political-mafia exchange, perhaps precisely because the case is not described punctually as in the formulation that is proposed today in the draft law under consideration, namely the willingness to meet the interests or needs of the mob association. The vote of political-mafia exchange is a dramatic phenomenon that has very negative consequences on our country system. First of all, it leads to a loss of public confidence in the institutions; secondly, it gives enormous power to the mafias, because it gives them visibility and recognizes them powerful; finally, it makes all of them blackmailable, not only the corrupt political man, but also the party or institution he represents. When the Mafia organizations manage to influence consensus, the democratic life of our country is distorted. Think of the phenomenon of abstentionism: today's massive abstentions allow the success of certain elections with a minimum number of votes or with a second round established by the electoral law. In these situations the votes mobilized by the mobs can become very valuable and decisive for obtaining the electoral victory. Every person who doesn't vote is a vote that counts double for corrupt and mobsters. The chronicles continue to report phenomena of heavy pollution at the local level to the South and the North, where the mafias have long rooted much of their business, however more and more prosperous. This is the accusation that the National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor Federico Cafiero De Raho is strongly pointing out, according to which what emerged from Operation Aemilia is just the tip of the iceberg. For De Raho the mafia, made entrepreneur, shoots less, but corrupts more and emphasizes: our ballast is mafia and corruption, this last rampage, but when there are corruption and mafia the economy goes deeper. This is because with their immense and bloody capitals, coming from drugs, prostitution, trafficking, trafficking in human beings, reduction in slavery, trafficking in arms, gambling, zero the legal economy, pollute the market, distort the price system, evade taxes with false invoices. The economy based on legality is no longer able to compete and is doomed to fail; the whole economy goes towards an illegal drift with the support of a complacent policy. That is why it is necessary to have criminal laws capable of punishing those who commit this horrible crime on both sides: those who offer and those who accept the exchange. The reform of Article 416-b of the penal code under consideration today is only the last of the legislative changes made to the penal code with the aim of achieving the objective of reducing the legal interpretations as much as possible. In particular, this intervention eliminates the reference to the method of mafia intimidation. This renders irrelevant the method by which we commit ourselves to obtaining the votes subject to the political-mafia agreement, also on the basis of the obvious consideration that the possibility of proving the use of the mafia method, sometimes, is extremely difficult. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. MANTOVANI (M5S). Yes, ma'am. Moreover, as I said, the Mafia method is not merely about violence or threats. To certain criminal associations it is always agreed to spread in the population the idea that, asking for their help, you could reach the party men and public offices that were in their calendars of contacts. Finally, as an exponent of a political movement that has always rewarded honesty, I want to stress that it is not only the task of the rules to enforce legality. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I'll give you 15 more seconds. MANTOVANI (M5S). Thank you. Convictions or crimes committed and judged as such are not enough: there are the facts, the episodes that are not in themselves illegal, but that highlight a connection, while there should be a marked distance. These facts, these elements of contiguity must be examined by the parties themselves and condemned politically. He said in fact Borsellino... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u30	Senator, you have to conclude because otherwise I am forced to give everyone more time and it is not possible. I have already explained that we have two hours of general discussion, so I must consider your speech as concluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u31	The Conference of Leaders approved the timetable until 22 November. The current week will be dedicated to the examination of the draft laws on the political-mafia exchange vote and on self-defense. For the latter measure, the Conference of the Leaders will meet again tomorrow, at 5 p.m., to assess, in the light of the debate, the further timing of the discussion and the maintenance or not of the question time scheduled for Thursday. At the moment, tomorrow's sitting does not include closing hours. Next week the Assembly will not hold a session to allow the work of the Commissions, especially the Committees on Constitutional Affairs and Budget on the Decree-Law on Public Security. The examination of the latter measure will begin at Monday 5 November, beginning at 9.30 a.m., and will continue on Tuesday 6 November until its conclusion, with sessions without closing hours. At the sittings of Wednesday 7 and Thursday 8, the topics not covered in previous weeks will be discussed: Committee of Inquiry into the banking system and national network cancer registers. The calendar also provides for the discussion of the following measures: decree-law on the city of Genoa and other emergencies, where approved by the Chamber of Deputies, in the week from 13 to 15 November; decree-tax law, European law 2018 and related reports on the participation of Italy in the European Union, as well as ratifications of international agreements, in the week from 20 to 22 November. The inspection union and the question time, at 3 p.m. on Thursday 8, 15 and 22 November, remain confirmed in the above weeks. Finally, the calendar will be integrated with the discussion of the Senate's accounts and internal balance sheets.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u32	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following integration to the program of the Senate's work for the months of September and October 2018: - Drawing of law n. 822 - Provisions for the fulfilment of the obligations deriving from the belonging of Italy to the European Union - European Law 2018 - Document LXXXVI, n. 1 - Programmatic report on the participation of Italy in the European Union for the year 2018 - Document LXXXVII, n. 1 - Consumtiva report on the participation of Italy in the European Union, relating to the year 2017.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u33	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups also adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - amendments and additions to the current timetable and the new schedule of proceedings until 22 November 2018: [[Tuesday 23 October h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 510 - Vote for political-mafia exchange - Drawing of law n. 5 and related - Legitimate defence - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 25, at 15) Wednesday 24 " h. 9,30 Thursday 25 " h. 9,30-20]] The week from 29 October to 2 November is reserved for the work of the Commissions. [[Monday 5 November h. 9.30 am - Drawing of law n. 840 - Decree-Law n. 113, public security (decades on 3 December) - Drawing of law n. 846 - Decree-Law n. 115, sports justice (final vote by 7 November) (decades on 5 December) - Drawing of law n. 494 and related - Institution Commission of inquiry banking and financial system (from the drawing up office) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 535 and related - National network cancer registers (from the drawing up office) - Questions and questions - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 8, 15) Tuesday 6 " h. 9.30 am Wednesday 7 " h. 9.30-20 Thursday 8 " h. 9.30-20]] Amendments to bill No 840 (Law No 113, public safety) should be tabled by 7 p.m. on Tuesday 30 October. Amendments to draft law No 846 (Law No 115, sports justice) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Monday 5 November. [[Tuesday, November 13 h. 16,30-20 - Following unfinished topics - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 109, urgent provisions for the city of Genoa and other emergencies (where approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (scade on 27 November) - Questions and questions - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 15, at 15) Wednesday 14 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 15 " h. 9,30-20]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the bill n.... (Decree-Law n. 109, urgent provisions for the city of Genoa and other emergencies) will be established in relation to the transmission times by the Chamber of Deputies. [[Tuesday 20 November h. 16,30-20 - Following arguments not concluded - Drawing of law n. 886 - Decree-Law n. 119, in tax matters (final vote by 22 November) (decades on 22 December) - Drawing of law n. 822 - European law 2018 and related Doc. LXXXVI No 1 and Doc. LXXXVII No 1 - Programme and summary reports on Italy's participation in the European Union - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Committee on Foreign Affairs - Questions and questions - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 22, 15:00) Wednesday 21" h. 9.30-20 Thursday 22" h. 9.30-20]] Amendments to draft law No 886 (Decree-Law No 119 on taxation) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Thursday 15 November. The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No 822 (European Law 2018) will be set in relation to the Commission's work. The calendar will be integrated with the discussion of the Senate's accounts and internal balance sheets. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 840 (Decree-Law No 113, public security) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1h Government 1h Votes 1h Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1h 42' FI-BP 1h 10' L-SP-PSd'Az 1h 08' PD 1h 04' FdI 42' Mixed 38' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 35' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 846 (Decree-Law No 115, Sports Justice) (3 hours and 45 minutes, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 15' Government 15' Votes 15' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 44' FI-BP 30' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' PD 28' FdI 18' Mixed 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 15' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 109, urgent provisions for the city of Genoa and other emergencies) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1h 13' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 886 (Decree-Law No 119, in tax matters) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1h Government 1h Votes 1h Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1h 42' FI-BP 1h 10' L-SP-PSd'Az 1h 08' PD 1h 04' FdI 42' Mixed 38' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 35' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 822 (European Law 2018) and related documents Doc. LXXXVI No 1 and Doc. LXXXVII No 1 (Programme and summary reports on Italy's participation in the European Union) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1h 13' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mangialavori. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, an orderly political evolution reconciles - or should always reconcile - the need for legality with the freedom of expression of thought and the political option is certainly one of the fundamental freedoms of each individual. The progressive expansion of organised crime has, however, been one of the main limits to the freedom of political initiative, unfortunately throughout Italy in the last period, but above all to the South, land from which I too come. Therefore, for the Forza Italia Group, as I believe for all the groups in this Parliament, defeating organised crime is, first of all, a battle for freedom. It is a far-reaching objective and can be achieved by working on various fields: certainly on the cultural one, educating the new generations to the culture of legality, social justice, merit and equal opportunities; but also on the legislative one and finally, but not least, on the political one, offering virtuous models to be applied in everyday practices. As can be seen from the preparatory work to the measure under consideration, the process of previous legislation is particularly complex. It has already been said that the first rule dates back to 1992, to that article, 416-b, which was debilitated as a political-mafia electoral exchange. There is no doubt that the removal of any link, regardless of its gravity, from representative public institutions is an unavoidable necessity, and it is not just a necessity of the Movimento 5 Stars, my dear colleague Mr Mantovani. However, the way in which we try to achieve this result is also important; if this complex and important issue is dealt with in the wrong way, the risk of obtaining the opposite effect or an incentive to public disengagement is particularly high and - I repeat - especially in the South. And this risk, of course, must be averted by all means. The attempt to infiltrate political institutions - I repeat this, so that no one, neither in the press nor on social media, can say that Forza Italia was against the rules on voting for exchange - must be opposed by any means. The text approved by the Justice Commission extends the content of Article 416-b on the political-mafia electoral exchange. It criminally censors those who accept, directly or through intermediaries, the promise to obtain votes, not only under the promise of money or any other utility, in exchange for the satisfaction of the interests or needs of the mob association. The penalty provided - as has been said previously - goes from ten to fifteen years, with a doubling of the penalty in case, precisely, the candidate was elected. In addition, of course, there is the condemnation of perpetual ban from public offices. The doubts about this text have already been expressed by Senators Caliendo, Dal Mas and Modena in the Justice Commission on 26 September last. The first gap - in the opinion of colleagues - is the exclusion of criminality for persons not belonging to the mob organization, which clearly diminishes the scope of the norm. Moreover, there are interpretative ambiguities on the draft law under discussion, which were also expressed in the consultative phase by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which, in order to configure the wrongdoing, should maintain the reference to the mafia method, which is not present in the text. The text dismissed by the Commission has, fortunately, transposed the amendment proposal of my colleagues Caliendo, Modena and Dal Mas, and the rule provides for the acceptance candidate to be assured of membership of the Mafia partner of the sponsor. In the first paragraph, the engraving has been inserted either directly or through intermediaries. In fact, the change is useless, as the possible intermediary would already contribute, given the current wording, to the crime. However, a number of amendments have been rejected to us in the Forza Italia Group. For example, in the first paragraph of the draft law under consideration a significant change has been inserted, since today the acceptance or promise - even the promise is punishable - are punishable if realized through the modalities referred to in article 416-a, paragraph 3, as already said by Senator Dal Mas. In the wording proposed by the draft law, however, the promise must come from persons belonging to the associations referred to in Article 416-a-l. This amendment - as mentioned above is immediately intuitable - could restrict the scope of the rule, since, today, anyone is punishable, provided that the promise is made in the manner referred to in the third paragraph of Article 416-a If the amendment were approved, the promise should necessarily come from subjects belonging to the Mafia association. The promise from a person outside the criminal partnership would not be punishable and its acceptance would not be punishable either. It is not the only amendment proposed by Forza Italia. The rejection disperses the opportunity of a more articulate and free from prejudices and oppositions that, if it had instead materialized, would certainly have benefited the success of the text. The text also supports a number of criticisms. The technical findings have already been extensively advanced by the Forza Italia Group. Among these there is also the added value of obtaining the elective office. In this case, the sentence increased by half (from fifteen to twenty-two years and six months). I remember that in the event of a homicide that wasn't aggravated, the punishment is up to 21 years old. The wording of the proposed act is not, however, entirely linear and proposes an interpretative question: should the election have taken place thanks to the support of the Mafia association or the aggression also apply in the case of pure and simple election of the candidate? In the latter case, the principle of offensiveness would be clearly violated. In the case, however, that the norm is to be interpreted in the most reasonable sense, i.e. that it is considered necessary a causal link between the mafia intervention and the election, it would be proposed an insurmountable problem of probative nature, being necessary to ascertain that the candidate has been elected thanks to the support of the votes coming from mafia environments and not from healthy environments. The technical aspects that, however, underlie poorly thought-out political choices do not convince the Forza Italia Group. I would like to reiterate that what is not convincing is not the absolute elimination of the mafia from political processes, but the way in which this Government wants to put in place a law that will not help the success of good purpose. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u36	I greet, on behalf of the Assembly, the teachers and students of the State Science High School "Elio Vittorini" in Naples, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u37	He's enlisted to speak Senator Grasso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly necessary to reform Article 416-b of the Criminal Code in the matter of the Mafia political exchange vote in order to break, once and for all, the link that often unites the world of politics with that of organised crime. By now, it is not only the giving of money the counter-performance that the politician puts on the field in the corruptive exchange. This counter-performance can, in fact, be reflected in the promise of public procurement, in the acquisition of supplies, in the concession to undertakings with public participation that favor the criminal infiltration in the economy and in the public works, in the promise of jobs and behaviors omerto in defense of a system that hinders the action of the police forces in the territory, as well as in more generically satisfying the interests of the mob associations and of individual affiliates. It is necessary then, here, to briefly recall some historical data. The crime of political-mafia electoral exchange was introduced in our penal code by Decree-Law No 306 of 1992 (the so-called Scotti-Martelli Decree-Law), converted into Law No 356 of the same year. Given the current abuse of decree-laws, I would like to stress that this was a really necessary and urgent decree-law: it was issued on June 8, a few days away from the massacre of Capaci. With the article on the exchange vote it was decided to intervene to repress and cut off the dirty pact between the mafia and local and national politics. It is undoubtedly a vast programme. With the same decree-law was added, among the typical aims of the Mafia associations, that of preventing and hindering the free exercise of the right to vote, the heart of representative democracy, through the possibility of obtaining votes to itself or to others during electoral consultations. It is clear that the protection of the legal good public order, endangered by the union between the mafia and politics, also stated at constitutional level in Articles 48 and 51 of the Constitution, according to which the vote must be free and the access to elected positions must take place in conditions of effective equality and correctness of electoral consultations. After a long battle - I remember the white bracelets of Riparte il futuro - during the past legislature, with Law 62 of 2014, the original discipline of the crime of political-mafia electoral exchange, initially configured - as we have mentioned - in the hypothesis of the one who obtained from the Mafia the promise of votes only in exchange for the provision of money, has been expanded with the counter-performance of other utility, that is, of any other kind of advantage other than money, such as the allocation of public contracts, the hiring of workers and so on. But to improve the law only such a change would have sufficed, and this was the intervention I proposed in bill No 9 of 2013 in the last legislature. Unfortunately, the intervention of reform - in my opinion - has introduced a further element, consisting in the modalities indicated in the third paragraph of article 416- bis of the penal code (the intimidation, the subjection, the omerta, that is those characterizing the mob association), thus requiring a reference to the mob method as precise connotation of the promise to obtain votes in exchange for money or other utility. Well, this passage - in my view - has diminished the impact of the measure. In fact, the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court which followed, by virtue of the introduction of this new constituent element, considered that the norm was functional to the need to punish both the political-electoral agreement - and not only that - and that agreement which concerns the commitment of the criminal group to act against the electoral body of the individual electoral process of voting with the typical modalities related to its mode of action. So, a new element was introduced that had to mark the promise, the electoral exchange agreement. For the purposes of criminality, then, rigoristic interpretations have come to demand the will of the politician to conclude an exchange in which are expressly contemplated the mafia modalities of the procurement of votes, not being able to resort to the only subjective quality of the Mafia interlocutor (this according to the jurisprudence). It is quite clear that requiring a diabolical probatio, i.e. the need to prove the use of the mafia method linked to the promise and the pursuit of the single vote of exchange, ends up frustrating the application of the provision. If the agreement takes place with a mafia exponent of undisputed notoriety, as the protagonist of the judicial chronicles, as a person at the top of the local mafia family, often arrested, and given to the fugitive before suffering an irrevocable conviction for crimes of organized crime, it is evident that the mere fact that there has been an agreement with that person, whether or not he has been definitively condemned, determines in himself the conditioning of voters through a form of intimidation and environmental subjection, deriving not from the exercise of express forms of coercion, but from his delinquent fame, from the violence and repressive force exercised in the past, from the sharing by some voters of the illicit system in which the organization has fallen and, finally, from the internal and external constraints of belonging to it. It is equally clear that, when the electoral exchange pact is concluded by a person alien to the mob group, both those who put it in place must know and want to avail themselves of the intimidating Mafia force by virtue of which that vote is required and/or obtained. Therefore, while appreciating the Giarrusso bill in the part in which it eliminates the constituent element of the modalities referred to in the third paragraph of 416-a, however, the construction of the case of crime with the referability of the promise to obtain votes only by subjects belonging to the associations referred to in article 416-a of the penal code involves - in my opinion - a narrowing of the scope of application of the norm, especially if it were to arrive, in the light also of the additional element inserted in the bill, to the consequence of the awareness of the existence of a definitive condemnation for mafia association for the purpose of the configuration of the respective responsibilities of those who carry out the agreement. In short, it is considered that the politician can be prosecuted in search of votes only to the extent that he is aware of the membership of the Mafia organization of his interlocutor, which is not always easily demonstrated, perhaps with the label that his sentence has passed into judgment. I would also ask you to consider the possibility, on this legal aspect, of returning the text to the Commission, so that we can carry out further hearings that can help us in the difficult situation of punishing - as best we can - this phenomenon, because - you see - good intentions can sometimes cause damage. That is why I have proposed a different wording, to which I ask the senators to reason without political preconceptions, because such issues are important and are not flags to wave. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Grasso. Grasso (Misto-Leu). It is sufficient, according to this different formulation, that the indication of the vote is perceived outside as coming from a mafia clan perfectly existing and known in the territory and as such, as a vote of thigh, already supported in itself by the intimidating force of the associative bond. I assure you that a few decades ago the boss' walk under his arms was enough for the candidate in the central street of a country to send a very clear message, with all the threats that this represented. I reserve the right to speak on other individual critical aspects during the debate on the amendments, but by approving this measure, with the necessary technical corrections, we can effectively hinder the interference of the mafias in the electoral consultations and their orchestrated and perceptible consensus in favour of certain candidates. The fact remains indicative that there are several municipalities dissolved for mafia several times and, if this happens, it means that it is still difficult to get rid of the infiltrations in the local electoral competitions. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u39	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u40	Mr President, I listened very carefully to Senator Mantovani, to whom I would like to say a few things. First of all, we are talking about a measure amending Article 416-b of the penal code, aimed at striking the vote of political-mafia exchange, with the idea - in this case at the suggestion of Senator Giarrusso - of changing a law that already exists and that - I want to emphasize - was adopted in the last parliamentary term. The exchange vote is already punishable and punished and the law has been adopted in the last parliamentary term, and then I will resume this issue. I want to reassure Senator Mantovani, reminding her that we have been very busy with the so-called Aemilia case in the last parliamentary term and we have done a lot in the anti-Mafia Commission. I want to reassure you that in the so-called Aemilia trial neither the mayor of Reggio Emilia nor - let alone - Mr Delrio are investigated and not put back to trial, despite the mud you have tried to throw at him in recent years. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I say this not to make controversy, but to emphasize the fact that maybe you have to stop using the fight against the mob to make propaganda. I would suggest to be careful because, when it comes to the mafia, presenting a world in which everything is mafia, often nothing is mafia and those who really should be pursued are hiding in the marasm of propaganda and of the things that are said. I would suggest that we reflect on the fact that the fight against the Mafia must unite in order to be effective and not divide and we must try to unite and work together, giving the sign from the Senate that politics in this country is united in fighting the Mafia. That's what we have to do. If we use the mob to make propaganda, I'm afraid we don't do a good service to the country and we don't give any more strength to the fight against the mob. I wanted to intervene because, in the heat of his illustration, Senator Giarrusso forgot to tell how the provision of which we are discussing is born, because it is important to do so. This measure stems from a large movement that, in the 2013 election campaign, worked, even before we arrived in Parliament, to ask many of us to commit to improving the situation of the offence of voting for exchange, in accordance with Article 416-b of the Criminal Code. 500,000 signatures were collected and we amended Article 416-b of the penal code exactly in the direction desired by that movement that supported a simple thing, recalled a moment ago by President Grasso. Until then, the exchange vote was only punished in the presence of money given in exchange for votes, and two trials and two convictions were recorded. In reality, the vote for exchange was set up and - unfortunately - is another way: they give votes and elect politicians who then return in terms of favors: favours in urban matters, in the choices of staff and in the field of procurement. Article 416-b, which we voted on in the last parliamentary term, introduced an important change, the result - I repeat - of mobilization, but also of Parliament's capacity - even if not of all political forces, because we have not all voted on that measure - to pick up that question. Today the vote of exchange (favors in exchange for votes) is there. You can change it. I have no doubt that all the measures can be perfected. Today, however, I ask myself a question, and Senator Giarrusso should also ask: why today the same forces, the same worlds and the same magistrates who pushed for that crime to be changed ask us to stop? They tell us to stop, they tell us it's not okay, they ask us to look inside. There is a fundamental problem: the idea that in order to incur the crime you must be aware of the mafiosity of the person who lends the votes is a double-edged weapon. How can one prove that one is aware of the mafia, if that person has not already been condemned in accordance with Article 416-a? We risk restricting; we risk widening the meshes; we risk not punishing those who do the exchange vote. I think we need to think about this, because if we say that a person, in order to incur the crime of voting for an exchange, must be aware that those who propose votes to him are a mobster, that means that that person must prove that he does not know. But if one hasn't already been convicted of a crime of mob association, how do you do it? It's clear we're spreading our shirts. It is clear that there is a risk of widening the meshes; it is clear that the fact that Article 416-b is equivalent to the penalties laid down in Article 416-a puts in place a constitutional injury, because it calls into question the principle of proportionality of the penalty. There are amendments and there is a proposal to return to the Commission. I am really going to take these proposals into consideration, in the name of the reasoning I have made before. Since we are not here to put on the medals of those who fight the mob more than others, but we must try to build the best conditions to fight the mob, then let's stop for a moment. If we believe that Article 416-b should be changed, let us change it; but be careful: if this change is likely to weaken its scope, perhaps we should stop for a moment and avoid such a risk. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Damiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are examining here today concerning amendments to Rule 416-b of the Criminal Code on political-mafia voting presents - in our view, as has already been said by other colleagues in my parliamentary group and other senators - a whole series of critical elements, which certainly make it unfit to pursue its objective, namely to tighten up the crime and its sanctions. I would like to clarify this more clearly with some examples and an analytical examination of the new text which would replace the one in force today. Let's start with the first paragraph. In the first paragraph, the engraving has been inserted either directly or through intermediaries. It is, in fact, an unnecessary modification - as other colleagues have argued - since the possible intermediary, already under Article 110 of the Criminal Code, would be liable for the offence in competition. Also in the first paragraph a superfluous clarification has been inserted: the current text provides that the candidate will reciprocate the Mafia electoral support with the provision or promise of money or other utility. The new text adds that illicit support can be reciprocated with the willingness to meet the interests or needs of the mob association. But availability is a course that is currently already punishable, since it is included in the concept of other utilities, already covered by the norm. But let us come to the other news about the case, which - in our opinion - are negative and risk surely limiting its applicability and punishableness, unlike what we hope today to obtain from the approval of the draft law under consideration. Also in the first paragraph it is intended to include the amendment that the promise to obtain votes by means of the procedures referred to in Article 416-a of the Criminal Code would be replaced by the promise coming from persons whose membership of the associations referred to in Article 416-a is known to him, as read in the text approved in the Justice Commission. Therefore, the axis is moved from the modalities referred to in Article 416-a - as the current text, in force since 2014 - that are behaviors and objective elements of the criminal case, to belonging to a mob coven, which instead is a subjective element. We risk, therefore, making everything more random, obtaining the opposite result to what we think we are pursuing. Let us not forget, in fact, what has been highlighted by the Court of Cassation in recent years, from 2014 onwards, in the various judgments. The Supreme Court of Cassation has reiterated that the electoral pact between the contractors must necessarily re-understand the mafia way in which the votes are obtained, so it is no longer sufficient to prove the existence of a mere agreement, but it is necessary to demonstrate the commitment of the mafia group that, in order to obtain the vows promised, it acts according to the modalities provided for in the third paragraph, i.e. the typical intimidation method. What counts, therefore, is the intimidating force that must derive from a group operating on the territory, organized and stable, capable of causing among the citizens a condition of omerty in the face of the criminal action put in place by the cosca and therefore such as to guide the vote. The objective element of the modalities is therefore fundamental in this case, according to the Cassation, but unfortunately it is precisely what is wanted by this reform, which allows to survive only the subjective element of the belonging of the individual to the criminal partnership; belonging that, of course, must be evaluated, verified and demonstrated case by case, as the Criminal Cassation itself recalls in a judgment of 9 September 2014, n. 37374. From the probative point of view, the jurisprudential address of the Cassation previews that the activity of search of the votes placed in existence from the procacciator is closely connected to the ability of the Mafia association to subject numerous territorial areas to social bodies, precisely through the intimidating force of the cosca. By eliminating, however, the reference to the methods of mafia coercion, these objective references fail and the whole case is vaguer and more random, with the risk of becoming a net with meshes that are too narrow or too wide. They are too narrow because, hypothetically, anyone could millantare on their territory belonging to a mob group to approach a candidate and promise them vows, involving them both in the crime, if this reform were to go into port, even if there was no intimidating force on the territory. It could be too wide meshed because the quality of affiliate to the thigh, which remains the only subjective element required, may not be an easy proof to provide and, above all, would not make punishable all illicit pacts concluded with subjects outside of any association until then, but that, by hypothesis, they could exercise their own intimidating power over groups of voters. Finally, one of the last critical elements of this reform is the following. The proposed amendment inserts, after the second paragraph, an aggravating hypothesis in the case of election, since the sentence is increased by half, then from fifteen to twenty-two years and six months. It is certainly a very reasonable penalty, but I would like to say more severe in this case than the one for murder - to be understood - which involves a sentence of up to twenty-one years. Time limits for comparison aside, however, there is a serious problem of interpretation: it is sufficient, to trigger the hypothesis of crime, that the election has taken place or must be demonstrated - and how does it prove? - that the election took place thanks to the votes of exchange with the referent of the Mafia association? It is not clear and the probative difficulty, therefore, of distinguishing which and how many votes would be of mob origin and if without those votes the election would have taken place anyway would become practically insurmountable. I would like to make it clear - and other colleagues who have spoken for my Group have also said so - that the vote on the political-mafia exchange is a hateful and infamous offence for the individual candidate who accepts it, for a civil community and for democracy itself, and therefore must be pursued firmly, we believe that this reform is not only not up to what is proposed, that is to say, intensifying the case of the exchange vote, but it introduces dangerous elements of uncertainty and ambiguity, which are contrary to what is a guaranteeist approach to our system and to my parliamentary group. The new wording of the norm, therefore, does not satisfy us at all, because it is too unbalanced on the subjective side, with all the probative difficulties deriving from this. We would therefore not like the inspiration of this reform to be derived from that judicial anxiety which pervades the current proposers of the same reform of the same bill. We appreciate another passage, that is the reference that is made in the introductory report to Giovanni Falcone, when it is remembered that it was the judge Falcone who wanted a link between the penalty provided for the crime of mob association and that for the offence of voting for exchange. However, we cannot accept that his figure and his thought are used to corroborate a rule that he would undoubtedly have opposed, because guaranteeing was his belief and he did not lose opportunity to reaffirm that, in order to make a trial, it takes nothing more than suspicion and we must distinguish political assessments from judicial evidence and that the culture of suspicion is not the antechamber of truth: the culture of suspicion is the antechamber of khomeinism. That's what John Falcone said. From Falcone you have and we still have so much to learn, especially from what his thought will never be bend to exploitations of summary justiceism. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u43	Senator Stancanelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the draft law we are debating today makes changes to the rules on the crime of political-mafia electoral exchange as regulated by Article 416-b of the Criminal Code and, in particular, provides that the direct achievement by means of intermediaries of the promise of electoral support by persons belonging to the criminal association of the mafia and whose belonging is known to the people - we thank the rapporteur who accepted our amendment to make it clear that the relationship of knowledge between the prostitute and the promissary - constitutes a crime in the presence of counter-performance, the provision of money, any other usefulness or willingness to satisfy the interests or needs of the association. The careful analysis of the wording of the text in question shows that there are significant differences from the current Article 416-b. First of all, it expands the object of the counter-performance of the subject who gets the promise of votes not only for money and any other utility, but also - and this is the addition to the 2014 news - the willingness to satisfy the interests or needs of the Mafia association as recited in the novellato paragraph 1. I think it is important to expand, because through enlargement everything that represents the Mafia's consolidated interests in the field of relations with public administration and, therefore, in the relationship with politics can be affected. It also increases the criminality, which is also foreseen with regard to the promissary who has addressed intermediaries, and this is the second novelty. The third is that the edittal penalty is reviewed, with the forecast from ten to fifteen years and no longer from six to twelve years. This is a political choice and we can discuss whether to increase it or not and we do not belong to those who beat their chests because there is always an increase in penalties: in fact, I do not know whether it is the increase in penalties that helps, or the certainty that the penalties are taken for granted. A further novelty is that the modalities referred to in the third paragraph of Article 416-a are no longer necessary, which mentions in the current legislation the abstract case of the crime of political-mafia electoral exchange and in particular the reference expressed to the method of mafia intimidation. For us, today's legislative amendment is absolutely appropriate, because, for the existence of the crime, the simple proof of the agreement between the promissary and the parties belonging to the criminal association becomes sufficient. This is the novelty of this attempt to reform, and this is because the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court, in current legislation, has now stated in a peaceful way - we can say - that it cannot be considered sufficient, in order to integrate the case of crime, the simple existence of a pact between the politician and the mob, but as it is necessary that it expressly provides for the commitment by the criminal organization, of which the promoter may or may not be part, to operate in accordance with the intimidating modalities provided for in the third paragraph of Article 416-a. In our opinion, this is the heart of the bill before us, which cannot but be seen from this point of view as an enlargement of the audience of those who may be affected by the new legislative provision. This legal approach justifies today's legislative news, in that it immediately affects the pact between the politician and the mob and thus gives certainty to the legislation, as it has been developed since the first legislative intervention of 1992, with the so-called decree Scotti-Martelli, which included in the penal code Article 416-ter, classified as political-mafia electoral exchange, in order to face and suppress the collusion between the representatives of politics and criminal associations. The amendment of article 416-b, which took place by law n. 62 of 2014, included the reference to the modalities referred to in the third paragraph of article 416-a and precisely this explicitation made the Supreme Court affirm, in a very recent judgment, that for the purposes of the configuration of the crime it is necessary that the sanctionable agreement expressly provides for the recourse to the typical mafia modalities of the oppression and intimidation. That is why the specification that is before Parliament today clarifies, without any possibility of different interpretations, just as it is sufficient to prove, for the crime to occur, that the agreement between the politician and the subjects has actually taken place. However, it should be stressed - it has also been pointed out by other fellow senators of other political parties and it has also been discussed in the Commission - that the net elimination of the reference to the method of Mafia intimidation could lead to a consequence, that today's legislator certainly does not want, that is, that, if the promissary's awareness of having concluded an agreement with a person belonging to a Mafia organization was not proven, even if it was proved that the method of intimidation and oppression was used, the punishable conduct of this should be excluded. So we get to the absurdity that, by widening the audience, as we rightly have to do, by identifying the pact between the mobster and the politician as sanctionable criminally, if we do not refer to the modalities referred to in Article 416-a, we risk leaving those subjects out of the audience of the criminals, because the norm does not foresee it. That is why we in the Commission supported as a group the amendments that also came from other political forces - Senator Caliendo has tabled an amending proposal in this regard too - which provided for the punishableness of the agreement with an intraneus subject - as currently envisaged - and that there was an agreement with an extraneus subject, but that it used the procedures set out in Article 416-a. This would lead to legislative clarity which would no longer give rise to interpretative difficulties. I take another consideration already made by other colleagues: the fight against the Mafia - I say this to Senator Giarrusso, who legitimately said that they are those who want to continue the battle of Falcone... (Senator Giarrusso sits at the government desks.) FARAONE (PD). Giarrusso, you're not the government! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giarrusso, please. (Senator Giarrusso returns to his place.) Thank you, very kind. Please, Senator Stancanelli. STANCANELLI (FdI). Mr Giarrusso, I believe that you want to continue that battle, but I want to say to you that there are many and many colleagues in this House who belong to the most disparate political groups, who have nothing to learn from your ability to be anti-mafia. I can tell you quietly; then, from my desks we can take lessons on this. That is why, in the light of these considerations, I hope that the majority, Mr Melius repensa, will accept the possibility of improving the text with the forecast of both cases, as argued above: both the agreement and the conditions laid down in 416-bis. In the same way, the third paragraph must be carefully assessed, where the penalty is expected to be increased by 50% for the promissary who has been elected. I think that the crime must be prosecuted regardless of the election, nor does the election involve an increase in the difficulty of commissioning the crime. And if the election does not take place immediately but in the course of the legislature, what rule should we apply for the elected one? What if he's already been convicted? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, finish. I didn't give anyone any more room. I'm warning you. STANCANELLI (FdI). I'm making the final remarks. I am convinced - and I am addressing the rapporteur here - that, just as he has been careful in the Commission, having accepted our suggestions, even on this occasion, also in the light of the requests made by other groups... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I'll give you ten more seconds. STANCANELLI (FdI). It is better to think a little more than to adopt a law that does not achieve the results that we all hope for. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u45	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur, frankly, when Giarrusso arrived in the Commission with this "read" I wondered what had anything to do with it: we had just started the process of the bill on self-defense. He - you saw him as he is - has come and started to put pressure on the President because he had to put that measure on the agenda. The hearings were not held - perhaps Mr Grasso was right about this: we should have gone into some aspects - and the bill was there, on our heads, like a nice parrot, let's say so. [[Senator Endrizzi's comments.]] I mean, he was shading over us. At some point I wondered where that measure came from. And where did it come from? It came out of the government contract, of course - but there is a piece missing, my colleague Giarrusso, which, in my opinion, makes it a bit 'unco; we will talk about it - and then of course from the need to accompany the arrival in the Chamber of the bill on self-defense, what obviously wanted and appreciated also by the benches of the center-right, with a norm, of a kind a little'more pentastellate, oriented to the fight against the mafia. I have provided this reconstruction, which clearly stems from a political opinion, because I would like to highlight two aspects in this talk about legislation. The first question is that in the government contract you wrote that the contrast to the political-mafia exchange vote must be done by all means, normative and administrative. In our opinion, however, there is no part of the administration, that is, of the concrete, executive part, because the modification of the norm brings with it the interpretative doubts (which I will quote quickly, because as you know as the Leader in the Commission we have Senator Caliendo, who is unbeatable from the point of view of technical explanations, so I dare not even enter into those particular issues). The whole operational part is certainly missing; we can also make a good standard, but they are reforms with the characteristic of being at zero cost, but they do not give themselves legs. Then there is another aspect that I would like to stress, as I did before. I am referring to this way of proceeding with watertight compartments, so if you approve of an issue which perhaps concerns more specifically the League's programme (and therefore centre-right), it must be accompanied by a proposal made by the Movimento 5 Stars, so basically in these two days of discussion we have Pillon against Giarrusso (later you, rapporteur). What are our doubts about the bill in question? The greatest concern, as all colleagues have said, is the concept of awareness. We are well aware of the way in which it is often dealt with, the concept of self-awareness, and that is why the issue has rightly been debated in the Commission and amendments have been tabled again. Then there is the question of the rapporteur's amendment, which concerns the greater or lesser penalty depending on whether a person has been elected. I would ask you to reflect on this, because, in addition to the assessments rightly made by Mr Mangialavori and taken up by Mr Damiani in his speech, I wonder how we can weigh a penalty depending on whether the election is achieved or not. I understand that the democratic principle is a concept that you have probably reworked and I do not discuss it (everyone makes his way), but are we perhaps faced with the achievement of a result? Is this a result obligation, according to which you decide whether or not to keep a person in prison for a total number of years? I would therefore ask you to reflect on the question of the amendment that has been tabled in this respect, because it can be at least bizarre. Then we might have someone who may arrive first of the unelected, a candidate who is above him on the list decays and then at this point what do we do, double the penalty? It is objectively a messed up solution, because in the end politics is not only done by institutional scrambles but in a thousand other places. Maybe that's not elected, but it could end up in a minister's cabinet or even being someone's secretary or purse holder, so anything can happen anyway, it's not the only parameter. I would therefore like to join my colleagues in the Group who have asked for more detailed consideration of some of the issues, considering the appeal that was made earlier, although I do not remember what intervention: there are issues on which all political forces must be found and the fight against the Mafia is one of them. It is therefore appropriate that the legislation be carefully considered, precisely because it must achieve the result in concrete terms and, above all, it must have its legs, that is, the means, that is, the technical and administrative part necessary, otherwise the effective fight against organised crime is not possible. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u47	She is registered to speak Senator Rossomando. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u48	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I begin my speech by paraphrasing the motto for which the end justifies the means: we are in the presence of an end that totally ignores the means and risks overwhelming the end, and we are talking about a real risk, so it is not a crime of danger but a crime of event. When writing a criminal law, in particular a rule concerning mafia offences, therefore a special rule, one cannot venture by putting on the plate of propaganda the risk of the translation and ineffectiveness of legislation. Parliament recently intervened on an emergency, namely that, without the inclusion of the concept of utility, the crime of the political-mafia exchange vote risked remaining written only on paper and producing no procedural results. And here is one point, colleagues: it is useless for us to list all the mafia trials that have taken place, especially in the North: those who speak to you could refer to the Minotauro trial or to the trials in Lombardy. Let us also list them all, but - I wonder - the problem is to open up many files of preliminary investigations or to arrive at a judgment and the effectiveness of the role of the State? We have adopted a rule by an overwhelming majority, addressing the issue of usefulness and finally giving an instrument to prosecute this type of crime. As some Members have already pointed out, this rule has been consolidated by a case-law which, in its consolidation, has given assurances that the rule works. I am very worried - and I would like us all to be, even those who propose the norm - about the critical issues that gradually emerge with urgency, with greater clarity and with many stresses from several parts, criticalities that are reported by associations that, in various ways, are engaged in the contrast to all the mafias. So let us try to review some of them together, although many of my colleagues have already spoken before me. I also want to remember what it means to transfer everything on subjectivity for the punishableness of the fact in mafia ways, so as to make punishable only - and I stress only - because what we are going to approve is a restrictive rule - the pact with subjects whose membership of mafia associations is known. This is not a minor change because the first rule, the one in force, concerns objectivity, regardless of its membership and, above all, wants to affect the disturbance of the free elections, considering that it is a dishonor and on that one is mentioned. That is why it is the mafia method that also ignores the direct belonging to having consolidated in the jurisprudence. Moving it on a subjective plane is no small matter. Meanwhile, it is a diabolical probatio and, therefore, we return to the famous investigation files, which perhaps do not arrive I do not say to the referral to trial but not even to the notice referred to in Article 415- bis of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Surely they do not exceed the scrutiny of the judgment but, above all, it becomes all transferred, entrusted and circumscribed to the subjects of belonging mafia, proven or not proven by a sentence. Imagine how we can defend ourselves, then, saying: I was not able to know that it was a subject belonging to a mob association. And what do we do, colleagues? Do we claim that we have made a fine rule that strikes us more or do we sprinkle the head of ashes? Above all, precisely because the norm affects only those subjects, all that gray world of which we have made the list, which is the juice of modern mafias (there is in fact a impalpable gray world that revolves around these worlds), remains totally not affected by the norm, because by virtue of it it must be a member of the Mafia association. Is this a step forward? Not to mention the succession of laws over time in case an audience is restricted; I would like to know, and I ask you, what would happen to some convictions made under current legislation. Because, at this point, there is a risk that it is said that there is a less restrictive rule and that one wants to be acquitted of the sentence just reported. Is this a risk we want to accept? That's just to say a few. Then there is the question of replacing a word widely and consolidatedly used in the legal technique where, when it is said that it is punished "anyone" is intended to cover all types of conduct. Instead, here there is no longer the only word "anyone" which is replaced by the phrase "anyone who accepts," either directly or through intermediaries. Therefore, a specification is made that, again, risks a undue restriction of the case and that again puts at risk processes already celebrated, but above all, introduces, on the one hand, a contradiction by introducing risks and, on the other hand, instead of the simple "anyone" introduces a reference to the more limited scope of the "intermediaries". In fact, there are a lot of other subjects in those grey areas that we would all like to hit and that cannot be identified only in intermediaries. So, again, we're spreading our shirts. I come to the profiles of unconstitutionality. When we add to the norm a willingness to satisfy interests, there is no doubt that we are describing a phenomenon that we all want to strike. There is, however, one detail: that criminal rules do not serve to describe a phenomenon: they serve to punish conducts, and for this reason they must be well written. It is not at all good to write that it is possible to punish those who are available to the needs and interests of the Mafia association, which, moreover, in the current norm, with the concept of utility, are widely covered. Therefore, we put at risk of unconstitutionality a norm because the principle of taxability is lacking. On the equivalence between 416-a and 416-b at the level of penis, also here I know a certain approximation. The judgments of the Constitutional Court have very clearly established that it is necessary to differentiate the thresholds for criminality according to conduct. We have a wide range of behaviors, because all those conducts that do not fall under the provisions of Article 416-b (which, undoubtedly, are serious but not the same as those referred to in 416-a) can be included, even as an external competition, in 416-a. Therefore, there is no danger or problem that can escape the most serious sanction. Even if they are members of the Mafia association, the criminality for both crimes can in some cases compete and add up. So, what is the need, if not to declare a greater severity, which is then broken on the concrete applicability, to apply the same identical penalties? Moreover, just to be very careful even in terms of punishment, I remind those who were there that in the last parliamentary term we have increased the penalties for both crimes. We have increased the penalties for both 416-a and 416-b while maintaining a distinction. Mr President, the end certainly does not justify the means. On means you have to be very careful because you cannot be superficial because modern mafias are not. They are very sophisticated; they evolve and they need everything except the rhetoric of anti-Mafia. Nobody wants to put up flags anymore. I am proud to say that in the last parliamentary term we approved by an overwhelming majority the introduction of usefulness in the Mafia exchange vote and, in the House, unanimously. I'm very proud and very happy. So it's not about that, it's about making useful rules and not making easy propaganda. Let us stop; let us return to the Commission; let us audiate judges, associations and anyone who can make a useful contribution and do well done things. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u49	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this would be the third legislative speech on 416-b within four years. This means that there is a focus on the phenomenon of the vote of exchange with mafia background. This, unfortunately, is not enough to achieve the aims that the norm intends to achieve. It is clear that when it comes to organised crime, the mafia and, above all, when organised crime and the mafia pollute one of the highest democratic expressions (the exercise of the vote), it is clear that this creates a social alarm and a need for action. However, we must ask ourselves: is it enough, with these three interventions in these four years, to increase the minimum and maximum of the edittal penalty, which has gone from four to ten, from six to twelve and now goes from ten to fifteen years? Can this make us feel that we have done our duty and that we have tried to create those mechanisms that can, I say not prevent, but have those crimes prosecuted and the responsibilities established, where this exchange of votes is exercised in the mafia? I do not think so, and we are absolutely aware of the need to put an end to such a pernicious phenomenon. Who speaks to you comes from Puglia and, in particular, from the province of Brindisi, sadly known as the home of the fourth national mafia: after the mafia, the Camorra and the 'ndrangheta, there is the sacred united crown. I perceive, therefore, on my skin the necessity: there are loose Municipalities for mafia infiltrations. I do not think, however, that this rule, as it has been formulated, achieves the objective, which was clearly in the intentions of the rapporteur and the Commission who dismissed him. The legal object of this protection is to guarantee public order - on this we agree - the proper functioning of the electoral consultation, as well as the correct and free comparison between the various candidates. This is the legal good that we must protect and defend. The promise to obtain votes according to the doctrine and the majority jurisprudence constitutes the anticipation of the consumption of the crime. The murder of political-mafia electoral exchange would be part of the double scheme of crimes: agreement following the receipt of money or other useful, in which the delivery constitutes the consummative moment of the crime. Therefore, in accordance with Article 416-b, the procedures for obtaining votes must be the subject of the pact for political-mafia exchange according to the need for the candidate to be able to rely on the concrete deployment of the power of intimidation, precisely of the Mafia association. Where does the amendment of this bill take place? In the first paragraph of Article 416-b, the engraving has been inserted either directly or through intermediaries: it is a pleonastic intervention, more of style than of substance, because in our penal code there is the participation in the commission of crimes by Article 110 of the penal code, so this clarification seems more a matter, as I said before, of form than of substance. A significant change has also been included in the first paragraph as acceptance or promise is now punishable if acted in accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 416-a. In the wording proposed by the draft law, however, the promise must come from the entities belonging to the association referred to in Article 416-a-l. This amendment restricts the scope of the rule, as today everyone is punishable provided that the promise is formulated in the manner referred to in the third paragraph of Article 416-a. If this change were approved, the promise should necessarily come from persons belonging to the Mafia association; in this way it would constitute a crime of its own, that is, a crime that can only be committed by persons with a special subjective qualification, in this case belonging to the Mafia coven. The promise coming from a stranger to the association would not be possible, even for those who used this kind of attitude. So we started from a premise: that of creating rigid legislation, as required by the code, our Constitution and the exhaustiveness of the criminal law, and instead we have created a narrower range: today it is not necessary that those who exercise this activity belong to a mob association; it is necessary that use methods of intimidation and violence such as to cause fear. Today, if this rule were to be adopted, there would be no more such possibility. I do not believe that this is a job done well and in the interest of eradicating this kind of phenomenon. We must try to promote the work of the judges, and instead we must not give them the interpretive responsibility, many times even above the intentions of the legislator. With this wording we are creating a dangerous precedent, and that is what the previous speaker said. If this rule were to be applied, as a more favourable rule, it should also be made operative in respect of those proceedings which have not yet ended with a judgment passed in court and which are still in progress. This would in no way create a positive response. It is not enough for us to have created the burden of punishment for twenty-two years and six months, because we must also bear in mind the criterion of proportionality of penalties: a murder today is punished up to twenty-one years, and we are going to punish a person who is a beneficiary of the vote exercised in the mafia with a sentence of twenty-two and a half years. Among other things, it is a case that is impossible to prove: finding that there has been a contribution from the Mafia association in the election of a member, I challenge anyone, I challenge a magistrate or college judge to be able to establish in a certain way, beyond any reasonable doubt, that the contribution offered by that Mafia congregation was decisive for the election of the subject. It's basically an impossible demonstration. So it is a case that has probably been included to meet our conscience and expectations but of which we make it impossible to demonstrate. Mr President, I shall begin with the conclusion. I believe that, as far as the quantification of penalties is concerned, it is a responsibility of the Government and the majority to increase or reduce penalties, depending on the sensibilities they want to represent, but to intervene with this new formulation of 416-b I believe that it is illogical and irrational. This measure is difficult to implement, which instead of creating a problem for the exercise of this activity against a mafia background, creates a facility when, within localities, especially small communities, they exercise criminal groups which are not necessarily subject to mafia association and which also have the same intimidating value towards public opinion and citizens. I therefore make all the comments which have been made by my colleagues both in the Commission - by Mr Caliendo and Mr Modena - and in this debate, and I hope that we will be prepared to accept the amendments that we have tabled. Here there are not those in favour and those against, but those who want to make applicable rules, clear and that do not create interpretation problems. I believe that a pause for reflection on this issue is as much as necessary, because Parliament once again has to fire laws that are applicable and are not just unrealistic dreams. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u51	Colleagues, we are missing three speeches in general debate and we are already in danger of running out of time for the closure of the work of this House, which is scheduled for 8 p.m. Then there are several requests for intervention on topics not on the agenda, for which I will give you two minutes to allow a "human" closure of our work. Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u52	Mr President, Member of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, since the debate that has taken place so far with regard to the measure under consideration, I understand that the bill stands in the middle of two fronts: that of hyper-justicilists and that of hyper-gardantists. Therefore, if the ancient Latin brocardo is still valid, according to which in the middle stat virtus is still valid, it means that we are on the right path. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I believe that this measure is important because it is able to strike a balance with regard to an issue that is quite delicate and has a devastating social impact both in a positive and negative sense. I will try to repeat very quickly what are the substantive changes that the measure makes to Article 416-b of our penal code: we have said that it is no longer referring only to money or other utility, but also to the willingness to satisfy the interests and needs of the mob association; it extends the punishableness not only to the mobster, but also to the intermediary; it provides for punishableness even in the absence of the mob method and only in the presence of a request or promise of suffrage; it provides for a tightening of the penalty, comparing it to that provided for the mobster, for the union of a mob association and provides for the aggression of those elected. We believe that this rule can contain a proper balance in itself and has the necessary social impact on a dramatic phenomenon, which cannot require any more expectation and cannot be hung from a unity of form more than from a political unity of substance. Otherwise we should also say here, just as it has happened in much more dramatic contexts, that while Rome discusses, Sagunto burns and we do not come to the end of this matter. [[Applause from the LN-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] I also believe that the attempt to find, in the event that the attack is envisaged, i.e. in the case of the election of this politician, the etiological link between his election and the contribution of the mobster, is really exaggerated. Let us say more simply that people want there to be certainty not only of the law, not only of the penalty, but also of a state position on the fact that politicians with the mafia must have nothing to do with it. The politician with the mob doesn't even have to talk to us! [[Applause from the LN-SP-PSd'Az, M5S, FI-BP and FdI Groups]] We must do this quickly and we cannot wait, because the stage of completion - the last, the most serious and irreparable - is when the mafia pollutes politics and creeps into the institutions. That is what this measure is for. From the social point of view, the measure is aimed at ensuring that politics is only and transparently at the service of the people, that rights are such and not favorable (this happens when the law applies) and that citizens are such and not subjects (this happens when there is freedom). The intervention must be done where the mafia already exists (and there it must be eradicated), but also where there is not (and there it must be prevented from creeping in). We are sure that there are happy islands, as has been said for a long time in my region, Basilicata, for a long time called Lucania Felix? No more than three weeks ago, 25 alleged mob bosses were arrested in a land that is truly happy. Are we sure it is still necessary, useful and indispensable to wait? For what, to seek unity? About what? Should we listen in this context to the magistrates, as well as to the financial maneuver, do we perhaps listen to the European Commissioners? And what are we doing in this building if we are not able to assume the responsibilities immediately and clearly? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The other day, as mayor, I met in my Tove of the Boys at a meeting with the Chief Prosecutor of Potenza, during which there was talk of crime and the fight against the Mafia. In that context, the D.A. spoke of a wiretap and an interrogation. We must enter the consciences of the citizens. A conversation between a mafia father and a son was intercepted, in which the father explained to the son the difference between the good mafia and the bad mafia: the good mafia is the one that helps people by doing favors, while the bad mafia is the one that kills and lives on drugs. The interrogation was instead that of a mobster arrested, who managed extortion. The prosecutor's question was: but if all the traders refused to give her the lace, what would you have done? The answer was, I would have given up, I couldn't have killed them all. Therefore, a strong act is needed by the state, which fights the mob, and a policy that rejects the mob is needed. That is the point of the measure under consideration. A few weeks ago, in Catania, the Minister of the Interior, with great courage and transparency, said: "The mob disgusts me." [[Applause from the LN-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] ). The measure under consideration says, with the institutional grace that is due to this place: the mafia sucks, because it deprives people of dignity, freedom and hope. And if a people does not have dignity, freedom and hope, it is a people that does not smile, a people that is destined to die. [[Applause from the LN-SP-PSd'Az and M5S groups. Congratulations).]] SUDANO (PD). Name the Anti-Mafia Commission! [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u53	The names for the Anti-Mafia Commission have already been given. There are other committees missing.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u54	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u55	Mr President, having repeatedly preached in this House that there is no good mob and a bad mob, I am pleased with Senator Pepe's speech. The difference does not exist because the mafia sneaks in, especially in the world in which there is economic availability, in the rich regions. When we did the reform of the courts, with the suppression of certain courts, I shouted at the scandal, for some northern territories that were certainly infiltrated by the mob. And I wasn't happy to see, after a few years or a few months, those convicted of that crime of mob association. I believe that Senator Giarrusso's intention has gone beyond what is the reality he wanted to fight. Why? Excuse me, Senator Giarrusso; you know very well that I was not only a friend, but I was also responsible for having Giovanni Falcone go to the education office in Palermo. Certainly this rule was approved after his death, but he had written it. And he wrote it according to those principles of institutional legality, which led to what? I have here the 1992 text and I also have the draft, the draft amended by Mr Martelli in this House. What was punished? (...) or in order to prevent or impede the free exercise of the vote or to obtain votes to itself or to others in the course of electoral consultations (...). The mobster was punished, the other subject of the agreement was not punished. When was the other subject of the agreement introduced? In 2014. [[Comments of Senator Giarrusso]] Excuse me, Senator Giarrusso; with the amendment of article 416-b we have finally identified the agreement in law, instead of promise and acceptance. How was this new detection done? Anyone using the methods referred to in the third paragraph of Article 416-a shall be liable if he promises the votes and the other accepts them. Is it doubtful, Senator Giarrusso? I don't know. We discussed this in the Commission. But what had been a hypothesis of doubt today was raised and remembered by a series of interventions, starting with that of Senator Grasso. There is the possibility of an interpretation which considers this article to be restrictive in relation to its current scope. Then I can't understand your stubbornness, Senator Giarrusso. You have known me for years: I am much more interested in the technical solution than in the political solution. Precisely for this reason, if you want to achieve the aim of a technical solution, I had suggested leaving this hypothesis: if there is someone of whom you do not have the awareness that he is a mobster or a member of the associations referred to in article 416-a, but you have only those who have used the instruments of conditioning the vote and the electoral system, this is, neither more nor less, the negation of the democratic system of our country. And don't tell me it's just the mob! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We all know that there are, in some parts of Italy, interventions to conditioning the vote that go beyond the mafia. But you pretend you don't know. Then why limit the intervention only to those who belong to the Mafia association? What's the difference? Why this stubbornness? My amendment is still here, although, in the rewriting of the Commission, it has skipped "association 416-a." Anyone who accepts the promise to obtain votes from persons who make use of the procedures referred to in the third paragraph of Article 416-a... What are these modes? They are those of being able to influence the vote through the strength of society and organization. It may not yet be established that he belongs. But he added immediately after: "I am aware of belonging" and kept the entire text of Senator Giarrusso. So, why isn't it accepted? What is the reason, if you really want to fight the mob? President Grasso has already exposed it better than I have, but you have probably been inattentive; otherwise I cannot understand what is behind it, what you want to achieve, if not an effective struggle. Senator Mantovani has given some examples that I share, but that do not have anything to do with this measure. They went well with what I wrote or with the reform of 2014; that was hit, because in that case there was still no ascertainment or awareness of the association. We have to make rules that have a serious influence. After a long battle in 2009 I was able to rewrite in these classrooms Article 41- bis of the penal code and was voted, after some battles, almost unanimously by the two classrooms of Parliament. I think we need a minimum of thought and attention. It is better to write a word more than one less when it comes to criminal law. The certainty of the precept must be such that a citizen without legal knowledge has the awareness and certainty to interpret the rule correctly, so that it has an effective deterrent. Don't be fooled by the increase in penalties. The magistrates with whom I have spent forty years of my life have repeatedly emphasized it and made it clear to politics: it is not possible, do not believe that the increase of the penalty can have a deterrent effectiveness. No. On the contrary, if the penalty is not fair, it is incorrect, it is not balanced with respect to the whole of the criminal system, to the gravity of the matter, it does not determine deterrent. In fact, there is addiction and the norm is not accepted. Why, then, not take this into account? For me, one of the most serious things that can exist in the criminal system is the mob association. If it is the most serious, then he must have the most serious penalty; he cannot have the highest penalty who accepts the promise of the mobster, with the consequence that the mobster has the lightest penalty and the citizen who accepts the promise has the penalty of the highest half. Do you realize what signal we give the citizens? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u56	Senator Pellegrini's last general speech will take place at tomorrow's sitting. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law. I would remind you that two minutes will be allowed for the speeches at the end of the sitting. Anyone who has to leave the Chamber, please do so by respecting the senator who is intervening.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u59	FARAONE (PD). Mr President, I am fortunate to be the father of an extraordinary autistic girl named Sara. For this society it may be a misfortune; for me and for the many parents under the same conditions it is a fortune. In this society it is unfortunate because there are few services and so much solitude of families. Only in the first days, those of discovery, those in which the world collapses on us ask ourselves: - Why me? - Why me? After the initial meltdown, it may seem strange to you, but we would never exchange our child with anyone in the world. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Berardi]] That is why, Mr President, we respect our affection and our consideration of our children. For many parents, work success counts, in the studio, in sport. We rejoice for much smaller successes, but we consider them equally important: we rejoice if we can make them eat alone, if we can show them a movie at the cinema, if we can make a companion passionate to spend a few minutes with our children. These are our successes and they are worthless to us. A son is worth what he can. You must already protect him from bullying, laughter and, in general, loneliness. We would at least like to avoid having to protect them from the ridicule of those men who should instead implement policies to support them. Cricket at the Circus Maximus offended us [[Comments of Senator Castaldi]] And they offended us with the laughter and applause of those who were there. It is not a political question, Mr President: I would have used the same words if those things had been said by the PD, by my party. Instead, it is regrettable that no one from the Movimento 5 Stars felt the duty to ask Grillo to apologize to autistic people and their family members. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Berardi and Papatheu.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u62	LEONE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the situation of the archaeological parks in Sicily and the anomalies surrounding them, in particular the dilapidated Archaeological Park of Monte Jato, reduced to the appendix of the Salinas Museum in Palermo and abandoned to dirt. First of all, I would like to stress that both the previous Crocetta Government and then, in perfect continuity, that of Musumeci continue to deliberately maintain a chaotic state of things in spite of the pronouncements of the Constitutional Court and the national legislation in force, which limits the discretion of regional bodies in the field of environmental protection, even if under special statute. The aim is to exonerate the competent technicians and entrust to policy the competence of the protection of the landscape and the management of cultural assets. In this way, positions of power of a few continue to be maintained at the expense of the community. I come to the facts. Despite the ruling No 172 of 2018 in Articles 9 and 117 of the Constitutional Court has declared the illegality of Article 48 of the Stability Act 2017, of the previous Regional Government, the current Government seeks to circumvent the judgment and tries to transfer to a political body the decision-making power on technical issues in open conflict with the code of cultural goods and landscape referred to in Article 146. The current regional government, although having transposed the Law of Madia passed on September 19, instead of conferring decision-making power at the Conference of Services, what does it do? She gives it to herself. But there's more. On June 10th, after five years of criminal proceedings... I invite you to conclude, Senator. LEONE (M5S). ...the tribunal of Civitavecchia acquitted Gaetano Mercadante from the charge of peculatus. Mercadante is the former legal representative of the dissolved Novamusa, who ran the ticket service of the major Sicilian archaeological sites had in concession from the Sicily Region. The investigation was initiated by the accounting prosecutor who forwarded the documents to the criminal record. According to the agreement with the ARS, Novamusa would have to collect only 10% of the tickets, 60 percent of the Sicilian Region and the remaining 30 percent of the municipalities... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you have to finish. LEONE (M5S). Castelvetrano, Calatafimi, Marsala, Taormina, Segesta and Syracuse, an erarial damage that amounts to 16 million euros. I conclude by saying that we Sicilians, although we possess a heritage of high cultural value, are forced to suffer erial damage and emigration of young people because of the economic crisis... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u65	FOURTH (M5S). Mr President, at 3.45 p.m., Italian time, on Saturday 20 October, from the space base in Kourou, French Guiana, the Bepi Colombo satellite was launched, for an important space mission to Mercury, a daring technological challenge of over 2 billion euros. From the ANSA we read: "Launched (...) the first European mission to Mercury, the planet (...) closer to the Sun, with extreme temperatures, still full of mysteries and crucial to subject the theory of relativity (...) to the most severe examination I have ever faced. On board are assembled the four modules of the mission, destined to cross together the Solar System for seven years, to separate once arrived in the orbit of Mercury. This mission sees Italy in the front row, with the Italian Space Agency, the National Institute of Astrophysics and the University La Sapienza in Rome. In addition, Thales Alenia Space has developed some systems of the European module, including thermal control: a real technological challenge, given the enormous thermal excursions of the planet. Bepi Colombo will inform us of the physical characteristics of Mercury's surface, the internal structure and composition and will verify important predictions of the theory of general relativity. I would like to express my thanks to the architects of this splendid success of Italian scientific research and Italian industry, which with considerable commitment and great sacrifices, lasted over a decade, gave lustre to Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u68	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to bring Parliament to the attention of the events that have taken place over the last few days concerning the Le Crete landfill in Orvieto. It is a dump jumped to the honours of the chronicle in 2003, in full emergency garbage in the Campania of Bassolino: it should have received 20,000 tons and received 90,000. A trial ensued on the alleged presence in the landfill of waste and materials that obviously did not have to be there and there was a prescription. There are strong doubts, also due to the high levels of mercury present in the river Paglia, which would be justified by the presence of cinnabar mines in the area. I would remind you that the bicameral committee of inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle and the related environmental offences, in the previous parliamentary term, has addressed an investigation to the Le Crete landfill. Just three years ago - we celebrate its birthday today, because it was October 23, 2015 - the regional advisors of the Lega Fiorini and Mancini requested the use of georadar by the Regional Agency for Environmental Protection (ARPA) to be able to verify what was in the landfill. Three years have passed and this motion, in 2016, was unanimously approved by the entire Regional Council. Well, in recent days at ARPA, which asked for the possibility to intervene, the Acea, which is the operator of the plant, with an 8-page response closed the doors, saying that, since everything is fine and there is nothing to verify, there is no need to use georadar. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Since, as someone said, thinking wrong is a sin, but often it is right, we would like the Acea to deny us, open the doors and allow the use of georadar in the Orvieto dump, to finally escape any doubt and not to see forced us, in the bicameral committee of inquiry on the eco-reactors, to ask to reopen the file, to be able to use the tool and put the whole community in peace and security; community, moreover, for the beauty of that territory, should not even have a landfill and should rather have the certainty that there is nothing in there that we all hope should not be found.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u71	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, I would simply like to comfort the Calabrians, the Southern Italians and all the Italians all the more rightly, because today we have had a positive outcome, which has lasted too long. For about fifteen years, an entrepreneur of the Piana di Gioia Tauro was particularly vexed by 'ndrangheta but also - I regret to say - by banks, so much so that he was the protagonist of a story in which he was recognized as a victim of banking wear. He, alas, works and produces with the protection of the Italian Army, having the family elsewhere because in those territories you could not live. However, today the State, - I like to say - the Government, especially thanks to the Ministry of Economic Development, and therefore thanks to Luigi Di Maio, has made it possible for a settlement agreement with which MPS has recognized the merits of the remarks of the De Masi group. Thus a sad story has ended, giving hope also to a Region that will be able to count on a group that, thanks to the refreshment of these resources always denied so far, has already made the commitment not only to preserve the production, but also to implement it. So the signal I want to get out of this House is that something can be done thanks to this government. We have to insist because we can do it. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Zuliani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u74	RAMPI (PD). Mr President, through you, I would like to ask for a speech from the presidency of this Senate, the second office of the State, on a fundamental issue, that of pluralism of information. We have heard the words of a Secretary responsible for this issue who, in the face of a applauding audience, has announced that he will cut the resources for the pluralism of information. This unfortunately happened in the twentieth century, that is, that we intervened in front of praiseworthy audiences to close, to silence the small voices, the free voices, the independent voices. That Undersecretary was born exactly with the opposite objective, namely to support that industry. In the last parliamentary term, we voted by a very large majority - including by adopting amendments by the person who is now undersecretary - a new law on pluralism of information. The information that is circulating on this today is completely unfounded, it speaks of a past that no longer exists. Today we have resources only to intervene on pure publishers, free and small publishers, on the many small local voices. I hope, then, that, in order to make a case, to make propaganda, to make a misunderstanding and - I would not like to say this because I do not try the intentions - to silence someone, so free information, do not harm the traditional structure of any liberal democracy at any time in history. I am talking about the independence of the judiciary, political, executive and judicial power and free information. This is the danger that we are running today, that there is in those words. I believe that this Senate and the second office of the State should pay particular attention. We ask that the Undersecretary come and bring this debate to the classrooms responsible for a job done well, to which we will not subtract. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u75	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-50.ana.u76	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 24 October, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.13 p.m.
