ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 12 July. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u3	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u4	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u5	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, thank you for your kindness. As I did in the Bureau of the Foreign Affairs Committee a few minutes ago, I would like to bring to the attention of the Senate of the Republic the subject that is becoming dramatic in Nicaragua, where there is a terrible wave of violence, arbitrary detentions, lack of any respect for fundamental freedoms. We are concerned about repeated violence, especially against men of the Church, after the Church herself had tried to stand up as a mediator between those who challenge the Ortega Government and the Government itself. This mediation, due to the unwillingness of the Executive, did not succeed, but at the same time, almost with a sort of law of the counterfeit, the Church was the subject of repeated attacks and even there was violence against bishops who turned to bring comfort to people who at this moment live a truly distressing situation. The Nicaraguan community around the world, in Europe and in Italy is very concerned about these repeated violence. The government appears insensitive to all international pressures. I would like to remind you that in these hours a very clear statement has come from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Federica Mogherini, who wrote a worried letter to Denis Moncada, who is her Nicaraguan colleague. I would ask the Italian Government, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, to interpret the state of concern which exists in Parliament in the face of these repeated waves of violence and an insensitivity of the Government to respect any principle of democracy and human rights. Thank you for the time you have given me and I hope that all the groups will agree with this request.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u8	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, Senator Casini had indeed anticipated in the Bureau of the Commission for Foreign Affairs, Migration, the intention to raise the issue of Nicaragua. What happens in that country is certainly under our close attention. I agree with President Casini's request for the Government to interpret the needs of the Italian community, but not only that; I also agree with President Casini's proposal for further consideration, which I will be happy to present to the Presidency Office of the Commission for Foreign Affairs in the coming weeks, with the hope, of course, that there will be a frank and sincere discussion with the parties concerned. In fact, we must never forget that our Parliament and the Italian Government have been the subject of more and more attention to worrying situations which have then proved to have been somewhat overrated or undervalued. We must not take this risk, we must listen to and evaluate precisely all the parties involved, bearing in mind that Nicaragua's internal affairs are internal affairs of Nicaragua's country. Above all, we will be concerned that there are no external interferences that are going to touch an already very delicate situation, with the awareness, of course, that both the Holy See and the episcopal representation in Nicaragua have a careful eye, to which we will certainly refer, but also referring to the governmental part and to all the parties involved. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u9	The next item is the holding of questions. The first question will be asked 3-00007 on the exclusion of non-graduate children's and primary school teachers from full-time graduations following a court ruling. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u10	Mr President, I respond to the first-signed question from Senator Bernini, reaffirming what the Minister said at the Question Time sitting on 4 July last, and from me in the Chamber on 10 July, namely that that of the magisterial graduates is, of course, one of the most complex and urgent problems among those that are at the attention of the Ministry. As the honourable interrogators have pointed out, the Council of State, in its judgment No 11, rendered at the plenary meeting on 20 December 2017, has definitively clarified that the possession of the only master's degree, although achieved within the school year 2001-2002, does not constitute sufficient title for the inclusion in the run-up rankings (GAE). In the light of this jurisprudential principle, master graduates will have to be removed from the run-down rankings as the substantive decisions are taken, which will presumably be consistent with the decision of the Plenary Meeting of the Council of State. The situation of the approximately 7,500 magisterial graduates, who have already been recruited as a result of the sliding of the run-up rankings in which they had been placed with reservation, who, by virtue of the judgment cited above, will see their contract terminated indefinitely as soon as the relevant decisions take action. This is a situation which, in view of the fact that the judgments will presumably intervene between the end of this month and the month of August, risks, in practice, endangering the orderly start of the school year 2018-2019. This is why the ministerial offices have sought to identify, as a matter of urgency, a legislative solution which, without prejudice to the need to give proper implementation to the judicial measures, was able to balance the interests of all the parties involved and to ensure an orderly start to the next school year and the safeguarding of the continuity of teaching. We must always remember that education is a service that has as its target audiences, our children, who must, in any case, be safeguarded in their best interests to take advantage of a continuous teaching path and, therefore, not subject to alternate changes of teachers in the course of the year. In this regard, I repeat what Minister Bussetti has already said at the Question Time sitting on 4 July, namely that in the so-called dignity decree-law, approved by the Council of Ministers at its meeting on 2 July, now in the Official Journal, a provision has been inserted, with Article 4, extending a legislative provision already in force in the legal system, granting the administration a period of one hundred and twenty days to implement the judgments referred to earlier. This regulatory intervention therefore allows the administration to take advantage of the time necessary to put in place all the administrative obligations resulting from the execution of the judgments, without which this could endanger the orderly start of the next school year. I also take this opportunity to point out that the decree of the President of the Republic of 14 March 2018 on extraordinary appeal to the Head of State, evoked during the interrogation held in the Chamber last 10 July, does not concern the issue on which the Council of State expressed itself with the plenary meeting of 20 December 2017, but it deals with the additional score in the second-hand rankings of graduates in training sciences. Finally, I would like to reiterate the hope, already expressed by Minister Bussetti, that Parliament will approve, in the context of the conversion of the decree-law, the provisions aimed at identifying methods for the execution of judgments relating to magisterial graduates, capable of safeguarding the continuity of teaching throughout the school year 2018-2019, as well as to give complete definition to the regulatory framework, possibly regulating specific recruitment procedures in compliance with current sector legislation, without neglecting those who are in possession of the qualifications currently required for access to primary school education.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u13	Mr Berutti (FI-BP). Mr President, I am not at all satisfied with this answer and I will try to explain why. The best that a Government of change can do - even if I grant mitigations, since it is a long-standing issue that has been going on for twenty years and I understand that it cannot be resolved quickly - is to give one hundred and twenty days to execute the sentences. I believe that this is a rather weak solution, because we are faced with 55,000 precarious people, 55,000 people and 55,000 families and, as Mr Undersecretary rightly said, we are faced with 7,500 people who have seen themselves, albeit with reservations, already in a state of stabilisation. In view of this, I have not heard - as may have happened in other contexts and in response to other questions - structural proposals aimed at solving a problem. Basically, as I said, I understood only the speech of one hundred and twenty days, among other things, at a time when, practically, we enter the operational phase of the school, because in one hundred and twenty days we will already be in the middle of school activity. We therefore hope for a solution such as that proposed by my colleague Malan, the first signatory of a draft law amending the law of 13 July 2015, n. 107, with which it is specified that they are fully enrolled in the rankings when the teaching staff referred to in article 1, paragraph 605, letter c), of the law of 27 December 1996, n. 296, all the teachers who have obtained within the school year 2001/2002 the master's degree is exhausted. It is clear that this is only a device of four lines, when our vision of school, compared to the good school that, we can say, did not make great proselytes and objectively did not give great results, is different: a school with a system voted towards the future and that can really give young people a serious hope, based on a series of visions, but above all concrete passages. Freedom of choice, autonomy, innovation, internationalization, the dual system, active learning, problem solving, apprenticeship are the elements on which we want to base the school of the future, but with the hope that a serious and tangible proposal will come from the Government on which we can work for the future and not only a patch aimed at healing a sentence that will only harm families in the coming months.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u14	Question 3 00089 follows on from the recent serious accidents at the workplace. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u15	Mr President, the sensitive issue of the prevention of accidents at work can only be a top priority for our country, also taking into account the social importance and protection that this issue entails. I say this because the protection of work begins with the protection of health and safety at work. If we look at the first five months of 2018, the numbers coming from INAIL show a growing trend of accidents and it is a few days ago the news of two other victims of work: in Marina di Carrara and in the province of Padua. On behalf of the whole Government, I feel the need here to express the deepest sympathy and feeling of closeness to the families of these further victims, as to those of all the victims of work. [[Applause from the M5S, FI-BP and L-SP groups.]] On these and on other similar tragedies, the judiciary should carry out its own investigations, to ascertain the exact dynamics of the facts and to verify whether there are responsibilities behind these incidents for those who have positions guaranteeing the protection and health of workers. Beyond this, however, as Minister Di Maio pointed out on the occasion of the urgent information on accidents at work made to Parliament on 14 June, it is the government's priority objective to prevent such dramas from continuing to repeat. This will be achieved by investing as much energy as possible in improving health and safety at the workplace. In order to combat the phenomenon of white deaths, on the other hand, we certainly need a variety of interventions. Some of these are long-lived. Others, among those that can be activated as a matter of urgency, are no longer in a state of mere purpose for the Government, but have been activated. Just today at the headquarters of the Conference of Regions and Autonomous Provinces there is a meeting in which representatives of the Ministry of Labour, the National Labour Inspectorate, the Ministry of Health, the INAIL and the Regions participate, whose objective is to improve control on the territory. With regard to Legislative Decree No. 81 of 2008, it appears in truth appropriate, even with the further improvements in the subsequent laws of the sector. There is therefore no reason to think of its replacement, in the state. Rather, some of its changes are appropriate with a view to simplifying and reducing red tape, which is now a burden on entrepreneurs who want to ensure safety for their employees. It is unthinkable to believe that safety at work can be achieved by downloading only burdens and responsibilities on companies: it is necessary to reverse the course and reward companies that decide to invest in the protection and safety of the workplace, guaranteeing them a facilitated tax treatment on all investments supported on this topic. Safety in the workplace must first and foremost be a cultural factor. The need to ensure awareness of accidents must concern society at 360 degrees: we must invest in information and training activities and in prevention, which is essential to consider as a primary element in order to significantly reduce the serious accidents that occur and which could instead be avoided with adequate functional prevention. Cooperation with the Ministry of Education, University and Research will also be essential in order to establish a culture of safety at work already from school, and to strengthen the instruments of school-work alternation. The unceasing change in production processes, the new risk factors that result from this, also require investment in research, enabling innovative solutions to be found to protect the safety of workers in sectors with a higher risk of injury. I repeat here how important the training of workers, not only generic, but also technical-application, as provided for by the regulations that allow workers themselves to be adequately and continuously trained in this working world, which technologically evolves at a very sustained pace. The ability to have properly trained workers promotes the prevention of accidents at work and it must be the responsibility of all the social partners involved to take full action to ensure that this happens regularly and effectively. Finally, going beyond the questions asked, I would also like to point out that this Government intends to improve its control activity at the workplace and to strengthen the human resources associated with it. The aim is to reach appropriate agreements with the regions to coordinate the supervisory activity of both territorial labour inspectorates who have the task of overseeing the application of health and safety legislation in the construction sector, both of local health companies and to the same task await in all other areas of activity. The conviction that supports the government's action, therefore, in this area, is that measures are needed to empower all those involved in the prevention of accidents at work. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u18	Toffanin (FI-BP). Mr President-in-Office, your words do not indicate a precise answer to the question, namely how to decline everything you have proposed to us in this Chamber, as in fact there had not been any precise comments on this matter when Mr Di Maio came to give his opinion on the issue of security. Even at its hearing in the Committees on Development, Labour and Social Security, Industry, Trade and Tourism, nothing had been heard except that this was an urgent problem to be tackled with amendments to the law currently in force. There is no doubt that this is a very urgent problem. The figures, unfortunately, as you well mentioned, have increased compared to those indicated in my question, dated 29 May. I remember, by the way, this morning's victim in Olbia. The figures continue to increase from day to day and I must say that this is one of the real needs of the country. The Minister Di Maio must be concerned about giving rapid answers, other than the urgency with which he was grieved to carry on the decree-law dignity! Were the increased costs and burdens with which he penalised companies in employment contracts more urgent to try, as the Minister says, to counter the precarious, or is it more urgent to dictate lines that guarantee workers and safety in the workplace in a precise manner? Minister, the limelight compared to Salvini, you are able to conquer it by placing real solutions for the country at the top of its agenda. Now it is no longer a question of electoral propaganda, but of giving answers to the citizens. We also want work that is safe and continuous for all those entitled to work, but this work must first be created and developed and it is the companies that can offer the work. If the Minister penalizes them, they will not be able to offer it, on the contrary there will be a regression and this will also affect the safety of the workplace. It should be recalled that undeclared work does not protect workers or their employers in terms of safety, and in order not to promote undeclared work it is urgently necessary - yes, as a matter of urgency - to restore vouchers not only in the world of agriculture and tourism and to carry out contracts even on a fixed-term basis which do not affect labour costs even more. The same is true of controls, not so much in order to verify whether certain companies have the corridors outlined at centimeters, but it is necessary to make sure that controls are carried out in those societies for mutual purposes which, by hiding behind this condition, propose staff to firms which use them for continuous and non-occurrenceal work. Unfair competition is not a guarantee of safety at work. The companies, both Italian and non-Italian, which are not in order and which exploit the workers are controlled: that's where we have to start. The safety at work, you said well too, Mr. Undersecretary, begins with schools, universities, but I would say that it must become a cultural form and only in this way can it be protected. It is therefore necessary that the training begins even in the school and for children, whose age allows them to be easily permeable and to guarantee a baggage that will remain in life. Then, of course, it is necessary to amend Legislative Decree No. 626, dated 1994, and Legislative Decree No. 81 of 2008, because the continuous changes that the world of work has experienced in the last twenty years, but above all in the last ten years, require a simplification of the bureaucracy and an attentive eye to the new needs that new types of work propose before the legislator and the Government. So, illustrious representatives of the government, tell Minister Di Maio that combining two Dicasteries, which he says go hand in hand, means not doing it in words, but demonstrating it with the facts. In order to protect precarious workers, there is a risk, not only of losing job offers, but of even more damaging the safety of the workers themselves. If I may, I would like to ask the House to express its condolences to the many victims who have lost their lives this year in the performance of their duty. Thank you. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u19	The Presidency joins and invites the House to observe a minute's silence for victims in the workplace. [[The President and the Assembly stand and observe a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u20	Mr President, as rightly stated in this parliamentary question - which is similar to the question time discussed by the Minister of Health Giulia Grillo in the Chamber of Deputies on 4 July and for which I thank the proposed senators, who allow me to take stock of this issue in this House too - Annex 5 to the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers on the new LEA does not include the prostheses of the upper and lower limbs with high technology designed to allow disabled people to carry out sports activities. In the preparation of the list, in fact, it was considered to proceed with the new insertions giving priority to the prostheses intended to guarantee the greatest number of people the opportunity to carry out, as efficiently as possible, the daily activities of life, work and relationship. To this end, several new types of prostheses have been inserted, characterized by new construction technologies (for example, polyfunctional polycentric knee prostheses associated with pneumatic or hydraulic device in titanium or light alloy with high resistance; dynamic foot to return of energy for assisted with high level of activity and so on) and new materials of the components (steel, titanium or light alloy). The limited resources available have therefore prevented the listing of prostheses for sports activities. But, as Minister Grillo has already pointed out, this inclusion can be taken into account by the National Commission for the updating of the essential levels of assistance established at the Ministry of Health. Obviously, the Commission will be able to carry out the necessary economic and financial impact assessments after drawing up an estimate of possible users. Unfortunately, the lack of a current information flow on prosthetic assistance makes it particularly difficult to formulate reliable estimates. Despite these objective difficulties, Minister Grillo has already expressed his intention of giving a mandate to the Commission in the course of the discussion of the previous similar inspection act in the Chamber of Deputies to identify new indicators for reliable estimates of these performances. Before doing so, however, it will be necessary first of all to acquire the full operation of the LEA decree, which - it is necessary to specify here - supersedes the entry into force of the new nomenclators of the outpatient specialized assistance and prosthetic assistance, limited to the aids made to measure, the approval of the interministerial decree defining the national maximum rates of the respective services. As a result, therefore, until the approval of this decree will remain in force the nouns in force before the approval of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers on LEAs, dating from 1996 (outpatient specialist) and the other to 1999 (prosthetic assistance). In this respect, I must point out that many of the new benefits are provided by some regions, but only because the current legislation allows them to provide extra-LEA benefits, where they are in economic equilibrium and not in return plan. As for the ongoing process on the definition of tariffs, I recall that the Ministry of Health has started work within the Standing Committee on Tariffs since February 2016. The work proved to be very complex and required prior transcoding of about 36,000 codes used by the Regions for the services provided. I would point out that the transcoding has become necessary in order to allow both the analysis of the tariff variability of the services already provided by the Regions and transposed by the new nomenclator, and the analysis of the costs of the services for which special studies have been made available. The work of the commission continued until the meeting of 20 September 2017, at which it was decided to send a formal measure to the Ministry of Economy and Finance for technical consultation. However, the MEF raised concerns about the methodology used for the impact assessment, contesting the reliability of the data provided by the Regions. Following this observation, the Ministry of Health promoted the alignment of data in the health card system, managed by the same MEF, with those of regional flows and the findings were taken as a basis for the preparation of the technical report according to the methodology shared by the MEF. I conclude by reassuring the questioning senators that this report will shortly be sent to the MEF for the acquisition of technical consent and, following the MEF's favourable opinion, the decree will be forwarded to the State-Regions Conference. Only as a result of the positive definition of the complex described above, which unfortunately lasts beyond a reasonable period of time, will it be possible to initiate the meritorious initiatives desired by the interrogating senators, in relation to which I will be eager to provide subsequent updates. [[Applause from the L-SP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u23	GIAMMANCO (FI-BP). Mr Secretary, I cannot be satisfied with your reply in any way because, in fact, apart from the chronological reconstruction that you have presented in this House and which has led to the updating of the new LEAs (which you have clearly stated are not fully operational), you have basically stated that to put sports prostheses for disabled people in the future tariff nomenclator - to date there are neither in the old nor in the approval phase - would be an honour not indifferent to the State, and that in any case the issue should be assessed by the national committee for the updating of the LEAs. There was therefore a sort of non-answer, of evasion of my question, by the so-called Government of the change that you represent, led by a President of the Council-lawyer who said he wanted to work for and in defense of the Italians, so I also think of defending the weakest and the people on the margins of society, in this case the disabled, that I would never want them to be considered as such. You, Mr. Undersecretary, basically did not want to give me an answer. And I'm addressing a government that also has a minister for the family and disability, so I've also called it into question as a representative of this government that has a timely, important and very, very serious delegation. I would have expected another type of response, a more open response, a more dialectical response with Parliament, which I represent here at the moment. On the other hand, his answer, honestly, doesn't let me omen anything good; it just lets me omen long and very dilated times to get some little result. Too bad, because you see, Mr. Undersecretary, investing in disabled people and their ability to do sports would surely lighten the lives of so many people and people and would also have a return for the State, not only, clearly, in terms of culture and image, but also in economic terms. A disabled person who enjoys excellent health, in fact, costs less to the National Health Service. People with disabilities who do sports, there is no doubt that they are disabled who enjoy greater psychophysical health, which is given them - precisely - by sports practice. And I'm not saying that, but eminent studies and research. So, of course, this would benefit the state as a whole. Sport is for the disabled a therapy, a means of care, an instrument of social integration that, of course, we cannot and must not ignore as legislators. Paraplegic athletes, thanks to sport, not only improve physically, but also psychologically. It is therefore right to provide equal opportunities and equal rights for people with disabilities, as the United Nations itself suggests. I would remind you that in 2006 the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was approved, which requires states under the UN to facilitate and simplify practices for the accessibility of people with disabilities in everyday life and, above all, to encourage and promote the participation of people with disabilities in sports activities at all levels. Therefore, sport cannot and must not be considered a luxury for disabled people. Sport is a right for them. Therefore, it is good to make estimates that can weigh the costs, but we must also think about rights and, above all, we must not deny these rights to the disabled. Every disabled person has the right to practice sports. I therefore hope that Mr Grillo and the Ministry of Health will be able to make a change of pace and will be able to revise the tariff nomenclator by introducing sports prostheses for people with disabilities. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u24	Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u25	The next item is the debate on draft law No 542. The rapporteur, Senator Montani, asked for authorization to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, today we are bringing to the attention of the Senate House a decree-law extending the deadline for the entry into force of electronic invoicing obligations for fuel supplies. Article 1 refers to 1 January 2019 the date of entry into force of the obligation, provided for in the 2018 Budget Act, of e-invoicing for the sale of fuel to VAT entities at road distribution plants, in order to comply with the general legislation on e-invoicing between private individuals. In particular, the article under consideration amends paragraphs 917, 927 and 928 of the 2018 Budget Act (Law No 205 of 2017), which introduced the obligation of electronic invoicing in transactions between private individuals. In order to frame the discipline in comment, it is useful to remember that: the fiscal law 2018 (commi 909, 915-917 and 928) has provided, from 1 January 2019, the introduction of mandatory electronic invoicing (electronic invoice) in transactions between private individuals (with changes to the discipline contained in legislative decree no. 127 of 2015) and, at the same time, the elimination of the communication of invoices data (spessometer). In the event of a breach of the obligation, the invoice shall be deemed not to have been issued and financial penalties shall be imposed. In this context, the Budget Act anticipated the obligation of e-invoicing (comma 917) to 1 July 2018 for certain transactions including supplies of petrol or diesel for use as motor fuel. The Revenue Agency Circular No 8/E of 30 April 2018 identified the first guidelines for the entry into force of the electronic invoice obligation. The rules in question, with a first amendment of paragraph 1, which in turn amends the letter to ) of paragraph 917 of the fiscal law 2018, postpone to January 1, 2019 the introduction of mandatory electronic invoicing for the cessions 1of automotive fuel made at the road distribution plants to subjects VAT. The Revenue Agency provided further clarifications on the scope of the electronic invoice with Circular No 13/E of 2 July 2018. The Agency, first of all, clarifies that the electronic invoicing obligation, introduced by the 2018 Budget Law, concerns the supplies of petrol and gas oil made between taxable persons of tax, intended to be used as fuel for engines for automotive use. In essence, it is the type of fuel and its use that imposes the obligation of electronic invoicing so that it excludes supplies of petrol and diesel other than those intended for use in motor vehicles, where, at the time of transfer, there is no certainty of the use of a specific type of fuel abstractly suitable for use in different engines. For example, diesel oil can be used both for the operation of the engine of a boat or aircraft as well as that of a car or motor vehicle. The need to protect and combat the phenomena of VAT evasion and fraud requires that invoicing be electronic. This circular clarifies, inter alia, certain aspects of e-invoicing in contracts, as well as the registration and retention of e-invoices. With regard to supplies of fuel other than those made to persons subject to VAT (transfers to private consumers) they - see also letter b ) - from 1 July 2018 do not have to be certified with receipt or tax receipt, but from the same date the operator of the plant is obliged to the electronic storage and the transmission of data due to the Agency of Customs and Monopolies. Paragraph 909 (b) of the 2018 Budget Act introduced, as from 1 July 2018, the obligation to store electronic data and the telematic transmission of charges for supplies of petrol and diesel for use as motor fuel. With the measure of 28 May 2018, the Revenue Agency and the Customs and Monopolies Agency have defined the rules to be followed by the high-automation fuel distributors in order to communicate the data on the daily fees of the supplies of petrol and diesel. The letter b ) of paragraph 1 amends the effect of certain rules of the fiscal law 2018, provided for by paragraph 927, which in the original wording provides for the application from 1 July 2018 of all the rules that anticipate the application of the electronic invoice (i.e. paragraphs 920 and 926). With the amendments under consideration, in line with the amendments to point (a), the implementation of these rules is differentiated. In particular, from 1 July 2018, the rules allowing the deduction from income taxes and the deduction from VAT of only fuel expenditures made with traceable payments - new paragraphs 922 and 923 - and assign to the fuel distribution plant exercises a tax credit equal to 50% of the fees charged for transactions made through electronic payment systems by credit cards, which can be used in compensation and within the limits of the European Community's aid rules. On the other hand, from 1 January 2019 the rules that make electronic invoicing mandatory for purchases of motor fuel made at road distribution plants to VAT entities (comma 920, already commented on under (a)); exclude from the tax certification obligation with receipt or receipt (in other ways than invoice), provided by law for the supplies of motor fuel and lubricants, only purchases made outside the business, art and profession exercise (comma 921), therefore to private consumers; repeal the provisions in force regarding documentation, by companies, of purchases of motor fuel (fuel card), as listed in paragraph 926. These documentation arrangements, despite the delay in the electronic invoice, continue to apply until 31 December 2018. Businesses, however, as seen above, must use traceable payment instruments to enjoy the tax advantages associated with the purchase of fuels (deduction for the purposes of income taxes and VAT deduction). VAT entities shall mean, by way of example, the following categories of taxpayers: entrepreneurs, craftsmen and traders, agents and trade representatives; self-employed persons, professionals with VAT numbers registered or not registered in professional offices; companies of persons, simple companies, snc, sas, associated studies; companies of capital and commercial bodies, public limited companies, srls, cooperatives, public and private bodies other than companies; credit institutions, other financial intermediaries, trust companies; entities not engaged in commercial activities. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u27	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is my turn to speak first of all on this subject, which has been the subject of many meetings of the 6th Commission (finance and treasure), where the problem has been dealt with (it has also been mentioned today at the hearing with Minister Tria). The reasons and modalities are well explained technically and we can also agree on them to a large extent, because they correspond to the demands of the professional categories, given the difficulties of introducing e-invoicing in a short time. This, however, involves a cost, which is covered substantially by the use of the reserve chapters (and this is a pity, because they could serve other purposes) or with the passive residues that have been eliminated (because they could be eliminated). The mandatory electronic invoicing for subcontractors of public works and contracts with the public administration remains in force immediately, from 1 July, even from the day following the publication of the decree-law in the Official Journal. On the other hand, it is expected that the fuel cards will immediately be traceable, which will remain in force in the presence and in the request for approval of an extension. This has an explanation, which in fact also clarifies the whole measure. On page 2 of the technical documentation, in fact, it is said that for the supplies of fuel other than those made to VAT entities (i.e. the former fuel cards), which will be subject to electronic invoicing from 1 January 2019, i.e. for the supplies to private consumers, there is a different legislation, because they must not be certified with receipt or tax receipt, but from the same date the operator of the plant is obliged to the electronic storage and transmission of charges to the Customs and Monopolies Agency, not to the Revenue Agency. This implies that everything serves to solve another problem concerning excise duties and the system of oil and fuel triangulation companies. This is a very serious fact, which gives rise to evasions - it seems - billionaires, which goes back years and which must already be fought. However, this is a good way to bring this out. On the issue of e-invoicing, in general, I have had the opportunity to express my opinion in the Commission, which I confirm today, partly because it is shared by other Commissioners. I think that e-invoicing can, at most, be introduced gradually and that invoices up to EUR 2,000 should be exempted. This is because the system of e-invoicing is, in fact, against small VAT consignments and technicalizes society, while the economy is not just technical, it is another thing. I want to give an example. How will you apply electronic invoicing to Porta Palazzo in Turin or to Vucciria in Palermo? Will it also apply to non-EU countries or, poor people, will they be exempted? This maneuver is part of the last technical chance that Brussels gives Italy to comply with the dictates of the European Union, whether we like it or not. After e-invoicing there will be the abolition of cash, which is behind this maneuver. There will be other possibilities, in case of verification of facts such as those assumed by the Italian Banking Association and the Bank of Italy and speculation, spreads, etc. I confess that, actually, this system is a little scary to me. As I have already had the opportunity to say in another surgery, I am a person who thinks with nasometry. I believe that the economy is another thing and that it must be made more lively and effervescent, because it is tired. There is even the sadness of the economy. I believe that we all, on days when we are not in Rome, engaged in this House, talk to the citizens and feel that the economy is not working well. As the economics professors once said, the horse doesn't drink. Apart from the question of public debt, which is a bit of a fixation of mine (which we will talk about on another occasion, because it is not about the issue we are discussing today), I am making a shock proposal to this House, asking the Government to respond to me. I call on everyone to accept my proposal in a dialectic way, while respecting their own ideas. I think that from the point of view of making the economy effervescent and producing revenue for the State - today it has been mentioned with Minister Tria, using a slightly different name - the tax forgiveness could guarantee revenues up to 40 billion euros. I don't like people who tore their clothes and then - I've seen it on other occasions - are the first to use the pardon. I am not in favour of moralists and justiceists, according to whom pardon is forbidden in Italy for general sentiments, but without this corresponding then to the thought of the common people. I think morality is a bad disease. Think of the French Revolution, which he saw executed with the guillotine Robespierre, who was the most moralistic of all. There's always a more moralist one. The proposal that I intend to bring to the attention of the debate of this House and the Government is as follows. With realism and in the general interest, forgiveness can only be given to investments in roads, bridges and schools. As you all know - we have spoken about this in the interparliamentary group on the Provinces - the roads are in a disastrous state. If you go under a bridge, then you don't get past it anymore. Ask a technician, but you can also see how the pillars are reduced and the state of the system. High schools - too many, if not all - are dangerous and this is not good, it is immoral. I think that we could use speedy procedures and speed up bureaucracy to do this. All this could happen in two or three years - we are in the middle of 2018 - so in 2019 and in part in 2020. If 40 billion were collected and spent, 20 billion would return to the state immediately in the form of taxes, VAT, social security contributions and income taxes, i.e. about 7 billion per year. It's a half-maneuver. If it were done, this government would be brave. Even the 4% VAT proposal at the end is a round game. This would correspond to the solution of real and serious problems such as the problem of work because, if we made 40 billion investments in a short time, they would all work with contracts of all kinds, including vouchers, which we have talked about and which we will talk about. This also corresponds, in my opinion, to a general view of the policy and administration of playing a role in this House for Italy, for Italians and for taxpayers and not to be succubs of bureaucratic rules cast. I wonder what the debates in this House are for: are they like the agendas that are being approved or debated up to exaggerated debates in all the fora? We're talking to each other, but is that what the media is talking about? The media is talking about it. I therefore ask the representatives of the Government - if they have the patience to listen to me - to give an answer to my proposal, if not today, on the first occasion. I'd like that more today. Let us all be political together; let us represent the State and truly feel the responsibility and seriousness of being here, but to whom do we respond? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Kindly senator must conclude. He had ten minutes. You are required to intervene for ten minutes. PEROSIN (FI-BP). I promised myself I would paraphrase a mantra of Cato the censor: we attack the public debt, otherwise the public debt will attack us. Amen. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u29	Senator Grimani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u30	Mr President, fellow senators, members of the Government, the decree-law under discussion extended from 1 July 2018 to 1 January 2019 the period from which the electronic invoice for the supply of automotive fuel at road distribution plants is mandatory. The postponement was adopted on grounds of necessity and urgency regarding the full operation of the technology systems for the operators themselves. Since 1 July 2018, the rules on the obligation to keep fees and the electronic transmission of information to the Agency for purchases made by private consumers and the obligation to pay by traceable means for VAT entities remain unchanged and applicable in order to deduct them from direct taxes. We believe that the proper attention given to the reasons put forward by the operators for the postponement of the deadlines must be balanced by the granting of the possibility of issuing electronic invoices for those who are in operating conditions in order to do so. This was the proposal that the Democratic Party gave to the Commission, in order not to feed a dangerous cultural setback on the subject of the relationship between citizens and tax. On this subject we think differently from those who have just spoken because we believe that the issue of the relationship between tax and citizen is fundamental, but placed in terms of law and not in terms of pardon. We believe that the simplification that was proposed should not be accepted, especially for citizens who pay their taxes correctly and do so in compliance with the State and the services that the State must provide for the payment of taxes. Electronic invoicing is an articulated mechanism and provides, by both the supplier and the customer, for the use of invoices issued, transmitted, received and stored in electronic format. It is therefore essentially an instrument useful for the purposes of business management, cost reduction and automatic integration of accounting. For this reason the spread of electronic invoicing is taking a long time: it involves a change of habits and a minimum of initial costs, especially for micro and small enterprises that are receiving it with some difficulty, rather than a simplification of which only in the future will be able to fully appreciate the medium and long-term economic benefits. This is information which the taxpayer is already obliged to make available or transmit to the administration today, so that the electronic dispatch is only a change in the way in which this obligation is fulfilled. This is a fundamental point to understand, because the sending of relevant information should of course be mandatory and general, regardless of the use of electronic or paper invoices. This is a mere rationalization of obligations already foreseen and already carried out by electronic means. The attention we pay to this proposal for an extension stems from the fact that we Democrats understand the delicacy of the passage represented by the introduction of this technological innovation and the consequent change of modalities, so we collect the demands of the organizations in the sector and the subjects to which the extension is addressed. And yet we see the risk that these provisions, while meeting the demands of fuel distribution plant operators, represent a first important weakening of policies to combat tax evasion and in particular of value added tax, to which previous governments had paid particular attention. Large resources were recovered from measures to combat tax evasion in the last legislature: in 2017 alone, according to data released by the Revenue Agency last February, 25.8 billion euros were recovered from the fight against tax evasion, of which approximately 20 billion by the Revenue Agency and 5.7 billion from the collection of territorial authorities. A significant contribution to the recovery of VAT revenues came precisely from measures on e-invoicing among private individuals. In this respect, it should be borne in mind that, according to the latest report on the unobserved economy and tax and contribution evasion, the amount of unpaid VAT is more than EUR 34 billion, a value that exceeds 2% of GDP and that in relation to total VAT exceeds 26%. From the measures approved by the Government to guide Movimento 5 Stars and League emerges a worrying reversal of the trend compared to the work carried out in the previous legislature. Several instruments to combat tax evasion, the effectiveness of which is attested by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the Revenue Agency and the Finance Guard, are now the subject of important changes: the extension of electronic invoicing, provided for in the decree-law under consideration, are added, following the entry into force of the "decree dignity," the postponement of the obligations provided for by the meter, the abolition of the income meter and the abolition of the split payment for professionals. These first interventions of the Salvini-Di Maio Government, in addition to reducing the effectiveness and availability of instruments to combat evasion, involve a worrying loss of revenue: due to the provisions introduced by the decree-law under consideration, there is in fact a loss of revenue of 56.9 million euros for 2018 and 29 million euros for 2019; to these will be added the burdens related to the other measures just recalled contained in the decree-law dignity. Ladies and gentlemen, Senators, I would like to take this opportunity to avoid that in the anxiety of change, planned rather than practiced, what has dramatically happened every time the right or right centre has gone to the government of this country. In recent years, the evolution of tax systems has been characterised by an increasing use of computer and telematic systems and methodologies, which have involved both administration and taxpayers. The recommendations of international institutions also indicate in the systematic use of new technologies the way to modernising tax systems and improving tax compliance. There is therefore no doubt that the future of tax systems will become increasingly digital. The benefits of this approach are considerable, both in terms of simplification for taxpayers and efficiency of assistance and control systems. And certainly in this direction they have looked at the choices made in the last budget law, in particular with the introduction of mandatory e-invoicing also for commercial transactions between private individuals, from which we can expect a significant reduction in the level of tax evasion. Ladies and gentlemen, Senators of the majority, I wanted to mention these aspects, which also concern the paths of the past regarding how these reforms, especially the proposals of the centre-left, have been dismantled over time by the successive governments of the centre-right, because it would be wrong and self-injury to disperse the work done by the central-left governments and by Parliament in the last parliamentary term. A job that has represented a qualitative leap decisive for the functioning of our tax system. In conclusion, with this attempt to retrace some of the main steps that have concerned the modernization of our tax system, I tried to reread a little 'the recent history of our country. There is a clear need to seek, first and foremost, greater cohesion between the political forces on these issues, while respecting the various political positions and programmes. The issue of fiscal fidelity should not be aimed at dividing our political relations. I repeat, it is urgent to seek greater cohesion between the political forces, at a time when more dramatic appears the scope of a twenty-year period characterized by what has been called the muscular majoritarian. The reformist commitment of recent years must not be wasted. Even today, Minister Tria repeated in the Committee on Finance that legal certainty is essential for the productive system, that is, not to disassemble in every new legislature what has been done good in the previous one, only for reasons of battle and political conflict. We must try, that is, not to waste the good results we have achieved, as a country, in the last parliamentary term. Although there has been some debauchery - and we have also recorded it in our government action - there is no doubt that some choices made have not been entirely adequate in some fringes. But how much it has affected in this the liquidation and presumptuous attitude of a certain way of opposing it we can still see it today, more often interested in accumulating consent by agitating the problems, rather than finding solutions useful to solve them. [[Call the president back.]] Here, under these conditions (and it is certainly not necessary to remind us of this as authoritative international bodies), the call and the hope that I address to all of us and colleagues of the majority, in particular, is to try to recover a different attitude, capable of speaking to the country in an inclusive and non-conflictual language. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u31	I remind my colleagues that when the microphone flashes, there is still one minute left to speak. Since every speech is ten minutes long and there are many speeches planned, I would ask you to respect the timetable so that I do not have to take the floor. Senator Bergesio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u32	Mr President, I naturally greet the representatives of the Government and my fellow senators. As the beginning of mandatory activity approaches, there has been a strong economic interest on the part of some parties, who have seen in the obligation of e-invoicing between private individuals a huge business. For the activities of fuel supply, are the banks, the banking intermediation companies that will take charge of the issue of the invoice, at the cost of euro 0,50 at the expense of the operator, generating a general protest of the associations of the managers of fuel, because the revenue to liter of fuel distributed would not allow the coverage of the cost of emission of the invoice. With the measure of 30 April 2018, the Revenue Agency has undertaken to make available to operators, by 1 July 2018, a series of services to make the preparation, transmission and storage of electronic invoices easy, efficient and inexpensive. At the moment, however, these services are not yet available and a transitional phase will be necessary, before all operators can make full use of them, which is why - as the rapporteur has already said - our decree-law of 28 June 2018 postpones to 1 January 2019 the time-limits for starting the mandatory electronic invoicing for the motor fuels chain. This decree-law of extension, which bears our signature, is strongly indicative of what we of the League want to do, for our country and why we were called here today to represent it. We are here to reverse the course and interrupt that ambiguous tendency that has come far too far in recent times: to profit from the honest work of others, pretending to favor it. It is typical of a certain left, which seems to make a law in favour of entrepreneurs, while it winks at external entities that are ready to gain from it at the expense of the category of workers. That's not good. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] We are tired of seeing a category that we owe the credit to grow our country, that of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, a category that asks loudly to be heard and that we have the task and the duty to protect. It is only for them that we work with stimulus and ambition, because we want to stop curbing their vocation to progress. In this respect - although I know it is complicated - intervention in the agricultural and craft sector and for small producers is also desirable, because there are still problems caused by the obligation of electronic invoicing. We, as representatives of this Government, want to invest in the development of this country, always finding ways and means to ensure that anyone who wants to create productivity can do so in a climate of serenity and simplification, not complication. We are proud - I say this in this House today - of the choices our Interior Minister and our leader Matteo Salvini is making. Defending borders is our true identity; we cannot continue to be considered Europe's garbage can and let everyone dump problems on Italy, while they reap enormous benefits in other ways for their respective countries. This isn't fair and we don't want it anymore. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] On these actions of the Government there is the widest convergence and also the consent, no longer veiled, of the majority of Italian citizens. And I would like to emphasise in this House and reiterate, in support of what our leader Matteo Salvini has said, that the Fornero law must be repealed. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]] It is a pact that we have made with our voters, a promise that must be kept, and if the President of the INPS does not agree with the vote on 4 March, he will draw its conclusions immediately and no longer wait. [[Applause from the L-SP Group and Senator Giarrusso]] We can't waste time. We must be aware that a new phase of government has been launched for this country, a phase of change that goes beyond the seats and positions obtained by previous governments. It is a new phase and we repeat it in this House: here too the abolition of vitalities should come. We at the League also want the abolition of vitalities here. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] President. - The next item is the report (Doc. This is a country that can no longer accept the inertia of politics. We no longer want to see certain destructive dynamics towards an Italy that wants and can do it thanks to the fact that it has the right resources and men to be born again. We as League will no longer allow our workers to be exploited to the bone, because we have been called upon to defend their rights and to ensure that they can create value with dignity without there always being someone in the shadows ready to suck their energy. Today, I think it is right - and I say this to this House - to quote a great statesman: Giovanni Giolitti. It is our country - Senator Perosino spoke before, who like me comes from the province of Cuneo - of which the 90th anniversary of his death, which took place on 17 July 1928, is happening today. Just in these minutes, in the cemetery of Cavour, in the province of Turin, a commemoration is taking place with a minute of silence. In fact, Italy experienced unprecedented economic development during the fifteenth years of the Jupiter age, extended not only to the industrial sector, but also to agriculture, education and the defence of the national economy. It is a political figure to which we can also refer today. I quote, however, not only to commemorate it, but also to a phrase that always said: The government makes a political mistake when it makes enemies of the state those classes which actually constitute the majority of the country. [[Applause from the L-SP Group.]] Among these classes are those that we want to help with today's measure, namely small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why we want to live up to the government contract signed after 4 March and approved by the citizens at all times: it is written in black and white, Mr President: It is necessary to adopt courageous and revolutionary reform measures with a view to improving the relationship between financial administration and taxpayers. This is the course on which we want to proceed, without whether or not. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u33	Senator Conzatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, the real issue today is the introduction of electronic invoicing, which is one of the simplification objectives that Europe has suggested to us and which Italy has chosen to give itself: it is a first step towards the creation of the Digital Single Market in Europe. It is a stimulus for the legislative level, which is our responsibility, to the introduction of digital transformation processes and essential ingredient of Industry 4.0, which we have already approved. Electronic invoicing means switching from the many copies of the same printed paper document, registered, photocopied, sent, to a single digital document, or rather to a flow of data. It means switching from established habits to a new digital cycle. It is a tiring step: all the changes involve a certain degree of resistance, but it is really worth it and I say it from professional experience. Electronic invoicing, therefore, is not a fulfillment to be lived with effort, but a fiscal philosophy, which generates a profound change of mentality: faster administrative processes, digital diffusion to simplify business relationships, availability of interoperable information in the exchange of data between commercial subjects, credit institutions, businesses and public administration. The Italian legislator has understood and met this challenge with determination, making mandatory electronic invoicing in 2015 towards all public administration and electronic invoicing to the public administration has evidenced positive elements on the front of the digital revolution: I quote, on all, the certainty of the commitments of expenditure and the monitoring of the times of payment of the suppliers. Today more than 30 million electronic invoices are managed to the public administration: it is an interesting fact, but it is necessary to complete this path on the front of the optimization of the processes. We know that in the public administration the habit of printing the electronic invoices received is still widespread (it is a paradox!), to then charge them into the software, typing them in a traditional way and sometimes even preserving them, not only replaceably, also in paper. So we ask ourselves: what about the digital management of workflows? What about standard replacement storage? What stimulus are we giving to suppliers to extend the digital relationship to other documents as well: orders, order confirmations, transport documents (DDT)? Yes, these new processes are being applied and we know that those who know them no longer want to leave them, but the path that had been undertaken with great courage has gradually been lost and today, since 1 January 2019, must resume vigorously. In fact, in addition to the work on the processes, the path on the actors must be completed, the billing B2B must be diffused. The philosophy of e-invoicing as a digital facilitator of business relations, capable of increasing competitiveness and - this is the first message to the business world - must also be passed among economic actors, on the other hand, to innovate the relationship between tax and business. On the B2B front, in fact, already the last Government introduced bland incentives for the implementation of e-invoicing: let's think of Legislative Decree no. 127 of 2015, which allowed, to those who opted, a priority lane for VAT refunds, exemption from communications, spent meter, black list, reduction of one year of the terms of verification. Good? Not enough, because in the same decree it was possible to opt for the telematic transmission of all data, invoices issued and received, in a traditional paper way, a contradiction. The usual dichotomy between MEF and the Revenue Agency, dichotomy between the political vision that belongs to the MEF and the contingency of revenues. The measure has certainly served to give visibility to the tax revenue agency, it must be said. Totally focused, however, as a measure, if the political objective was to stimulate the adoption of e-invoicing. Worse still was done in 2017 with Legislative Decree No. 193, which took the tax issue by the horns, providing not the option, but the obligation for companies to transmit to the Agency of revenues the active and passive VAT data, unless the taxpayer had passed in full to e-invoicing. Is that a stimulus? However, it is nothing more than a new fulfillment, which they now say will want to abolish (it is obvious: with e-invoicing they will no longer be necessary, so from split payment to spent meter these fulfillments will be abolished accordingly, no great political conquest). So, in order to overcome the impasse, we must tell ourselves with intellectual honesty that the needs on the digital front are three: to evolve the Italian business system towards a model of digital interchange; to equip the economic actors with simple platforms and computer interfaces, perfectly functioning (on which we still have many doubts) and inexpensive; finally, of course, to send the data to the Agency of revenues. Undoubtedly, to date, the only objective focused has been the important objective of data collection aimed at combating evasion, evasion of the emerging or partially emerging, because for the submerged e-invoicing will be able to very little. Perhaps the Agency will have to become more constructive in this respect. To date, therefore, state, revenue agency, taxpayers play different games and that is why it serves on our part, on the part of the legislator, a decided choice of route, vision, of premium legislation, of revision of the current legislation on VAT compliance, and necessarily follows, of adequacy of the computer structure of the public administration and, of course, of control requirements. In all this broad scenario, small what is Decree-Law No. 79 of 2018 that we are converting; but it is good that the deadline for the entry into force of electronic invoicing for fuel supplies is extended. Evident organisational reasons, both in the public administration and in the economic sphere, impose this. The question is, at most, how ever, without prejudice to the reasons for the greater revenue already provided for in the State budget, the current extension has not been extended to the poor subcontractors, because if it is true that indirect transactions towards the public administration, therefore already falling within the line of e-invoicing, it is equally true that on the subjective level the subcontractors certainly do not guarantee a greater degree of organisation than the exempted fuel losses. So let's exonerate them. We have tabled a specific and reasonable amendment, which we will discuss and vote on tomorrow, to overcome this vulnus, extending the extension also to subcontractors. But the important thing is to reiterate the only relevant date, that of 1 January 2019, when e-invoicing will enter into force. As accountants, however, we must ask ourselves whether this applies to all actors. Realistically, not for everyone right away. We are sure to save the drive towards a digital business model; we understand, however, that this push must stand for now on the shoulders of the only more solid and more organized taxpayers, that is to say on those objects able to give feedback to the software companies, to the managers of the interchange platform, SDI, so that the impact of a billion of new documents-invoices to be managed is technologically impeccable. In addition, these stronger players will have to bear the economic impact in order to reduce it. Software companies, certification bodies, banks and banking intermediation companies today offer companies and accountants the electronic invoicing service at a price of €0.5 per document. It's already been said. This cost, even if it is not high, must be reduced. In the transition phase between paper and digital, in fact, this cost is added to the current costs of paper management, as well as indirect costs to equip itself with computer technologies. After the transition phase, therefore, the cost of regime-based digital document management will be three times lower than the current costs of paper management, demonstrating that the digitisation process is in favour of operators. In the meantime, we are helping small entrepreneurs, we are helping the smaller business fabric, and here I am proposing to ensure that the small ones have a transitional premium regime. By 31 December 2021, everyone will have to subscribe to e-invoicing, as provided for in the VAT Directive, but until then, we give a tax credit to the smallest to cover the costs incurred and certificates per document. In this way the state will be able to maintain its objective and vision and the philosophy of relations between the state and operators will have to improve with a view to the European Digital Single Market. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u35	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-Minister, the issue of electronic invoice is a subject which I believe is of particular interest to the Italy it produces. Therefore, a subject to which we should all turn a different attention, a greater attention. It is not the panacea of all evils, as someone seems to want us to believe. Not for nothing - and I have remembered it today in the Finance Committee to the Minister Tria - criticalities are expressed by the categories (cito Rete Imprese Italia, but just look at "Il Sole 24 Ore" and "Italy Today" that give voice to the concerns of the categories), but also of the professional orders (I also mention today, as I have done in the past, the National Council of Accountants, of those who spend their time on invoices and accounting problems, technical and civil). Well, as I have already said, from these worlds, from those who are supposed to understand their billing, there are serious criticisms and concerns. We would like, as citizens even before politicians, this government to mark a change of pace and listen more to those who get their hands dirty and perhaps less to those who make philosophy about these problems. Unfortunately, during the hearing of Minister Tria, I did not feel that this was the case today. Specifically, those who have easy enthusiasm on the electronic invoice should return to earth. I quote, in the way I hope as simple and understandable as possible even to the non-employed, some points on the subject, just to dampen a little 'easy enthusiasms. Meanwhile, the electronic invoice must be sent within 24 hours of the day on which the transaction took place. It is a time that, especially for software and electronic problems, for those who have to do dozens and dozens of invoices becomes a problem. I am referring, of course, to small and medium-sized enterprises and not to the large enterprise, which overcomes all these problems: small and medium-sized enterprises, craftsmen and small traders on these issues have difficulties. If the private person asks for the immediate issue of the paper invoice, therefore invalid, the operator is obliged to issue two invoices, the electronic one valid and the paper one, with double fulfillment. Invoices to foreign operators (including the European Union) must be summarized on a monthly basis in the old meter, which therefore does not disappear, unlike what Minister Tria said an hour ago. The flat rates, those to whom life should be simplified, as well as the old minimums, are not required to issue e-invoices, but they must receive e-invoices exclusively. So where's the simplification? Private individuals, that is each of us and you, will no longer receive paper invoices, unless they make an express request with risk of payment of the paper invoice. For the utilities - each of us has utilities for electricity, water, gas - in fact they will no longer receive electronic invoices, as well as for any other service. It would therefore perhaps be appropriate to think about our elders, our fathers, our grandparents, who will no longer understand how to behave. It is not that it is in fact so easy to go on the web platform and download the electronic invoice. These are everyday problems. The enterprises, then, the small enterprises of our cities and our provinces, will have to transmit to a virtual entity, that is to say to the platform (so an unidentifiable entity), own information, also of confidential character. Basically, as you can imagine, the invoice contains information, prices, conditions of sale, therefore commercial policy information, which is entrusted to a virtual platform on which we do not have absolute guarantees. I therefore also have some privacy issues, some problems with the violation of competition. It would be interesting for us to be given more reassurance in this regard. The new fulfillment also takes on an absolutely invasive character and probably also not effective in the fight against evasion. Let us remember that the great evasion, which is the major part, as I have already said on the occasion of my speech in recent weeks on the decree of dignity, has no problem in billing. Let us be clear: the problems of billing are those that have our small businesses and especially our small artisans. Therefore, even on the problem of the fight against evasion is not that this great victory can be praised by applying e-invoicing. The private operator, unlike the public operator, will not be able to refuse an electronic invoice, although false and incorrect, but will have to contact the issuer by asking him to cancel it. Will disputes increase or decrease? As you can see, I took a few short steps, trying to extrapolate some critical issues, which may concern each of us, any relative of ours who has a business activity. And all these issues concern the issue of electronic invoice. Well, if these issues and these critical issues, as I anticipated before, have been dealt with by specialized magazines for days, newspapers such as "Il Sole 24 Ore" and "Italia" today, and the categories are taking care of them, I would have expected a greater sensitivity from the Government. Since I am by nature an optimist and I want to believe that we all want to work to improve the system, I still expect the Government to give us more concrete answers, that it can listen better and more to the requests that come, I repeat, from those who are committed to working on these issues also on these sunny days in July. Doctors accountants, accounting experts, accountants: these professionals - I am one of them who today has the fortune, at this stage, to be here with you, but who until yesterday was behind those sweaty cards - expose and call critical, they ask to be heard. Again, let's listen to them. I ask the government to listen to them. The national president of the accountant doctors Miani went to the Undersecretary Bitonci to express these concerns, but today Minister Tria gave us no comfort about anything on the subject. Specifically, what do we ask? Basically, we call for a gradual application of this e-invoicing, as well as my previous colleague, I think she has supported, as she is not only a fellow senator, but also a professional colleague. Let us ensure that, over a three-year period, small businesses can gradually get closer to the perfect system, if you think so, but let's give small businesses time to get used to it. In fact, I want to remind you that today, moreover, electronic invoicing also represents a cost, which is around, only for software houses (which are the only ones that earn) from 10 to 30 cents per invoice: multiplied by all the invoices that a company issues in a year, you do your accounts. Therefore, we ask for more graduality, taking the positions of the doctors accountants, and instead we ask for a premium system for those companies that, as they stand, decide to adapt in advance of perhaps the three-year reference period. A premium system which could, therefore, provide for these virtuous undertakings to facilitate, for example, the exclusion from the obligation to keep certain accounting records rather than the priority execution of VAT refunds, i.e. the anticipation to three years of the limitation period for the investigation. We try to collaborate and interact with the world of the enterprise, granting a time facilitation, which is explained by the logic of the problems we have expressed, and guaranteeing them a premium system if they want to invest more time and resources in order to adapt in advance to the system of e-invoicing. I hope, in conclusion, that the Government will accept this cry of pain from the professionals. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u37	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u38	Mr President, the draft law under discussion differs from 1 January 2019, for the taxable persons of value added tax only who are supplied with fuel at road distribution plants, the effectiveness of the rule that preceded 1 July 2018, among other measures, the electronic invoicing obligations for supplies of petrol or diesel, intended to be used as motor fuel. The sector had already been subject to other regulatory measures in the fiscal law for 2018, in order to prevent and combat tax evasion and VAT fraud. The technical report to the measure under consideration estimates that the non-recovery of revenue resulting from non-declaration VAT evasion amounts to EUR 22.1 million. On the other hand, as regards the non-recovery of revenue resulting from VAT evasion from fraud resulting from the extension of the entry into force of e-invoicing, it estimates a lower revenue of EUR 34.8 million. Overall, the loss of revenue due to the postponement of the entry into force of e-invoicing obligations amounted to €56.9 million for 2018, €29 million for 2019 and more revenue for 2020 for €12.6 million. This measure, taking into account the technical difficulties of operators in the sector to start e-invoicing from 1 July 2018, does not, however, consider two aspects. The first, already illustrated by my colleague Mr Grimani, is the organizational capacity and personal sensitivity of some operators, who would still be ready to start the new billing mode. The decree-law could have left open an option to allow the start of the new system to those who were ready and not impose an extension on everyone. Although it is a different sector, I like to mention the historic Giannasi kiosk in Piazza Buozzi in Milan, which since 1967 sells chicken on the spit and which a few days ago posted a large sign with the writing: we very much accept electronic payments. It is a virtuous example, almost a symbol of those who know how to grasp the new times and adapt themselves with conviction The second aspect, not considered by the decree, is the audience of consumers, of consumers. Precisely in order to be able to better protect consumers and not to leave only to one category the benefits, although limited, of this decision, the decree-law could have provided for a measure that would reduce excise duties on fuels in order to compensate the higher VAT revenues resulting from the change in the international price of crude oil which, as is known, tends to increase in the summer as a result of increased demand. This would have been a measure of great attention to a large proportion of citizens. However, the Government and the parliamentary majority have decided not to consider these two aspects and, above all on the second measure, they will be entrenched behind the theme of non-atthenence. An opportunity lost, indeed, a dual opportunity lost because, both the lack of the possibility to start e-invoicing from 1 July and the possibility to allow a benefit to consumers show the guilty distractions that characterize the work of the yellow-green majority on this and on other measures. When you come out of the media propaganda fixed on the usual themes and you go on the ground of concrete choices you see neither enthusiasm, nor success, as you already see, moreover, also on the so-called decree-law dignity (we will be able to talk about it in due time). For its part, the Democratic Party will also monitor and monitor these issues and denounce and denounce the shortcomings of those who govern the country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u39	Senator Rufa is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law we are examining here today is not simply an extension of bureaucratic obligation. The measure, in fact, while postponing to 1 January 2019 the beginning of the obligation of e-invoicing for the sale of fuel, not only has the aim to standardize the trade of this sector to that provided for by the general legislation on e-invoicing between private, but above all wants to avoid a negative impact on the competitiveness of the companies that manage the fuel supply plants. The obligation was introduced by the 2018 Budget Law, anticipating the obligation for the automotive fuel sector, compared to the more general obligation that will take place in 2019. The numerous and complex implications resulting from the application of this law, combined with the state of the Italian sales point network, which was extremely diversified and fragmented, risked having a negative impact on the competitiveness of the companies operating the fuel supply plants. (18.18) (Following RUFA). The legislator was therefore faced with the choice of maintaining the obligation of electronic invoicing and meeting the needs of the sector. On the one hand, e-invoicing is considered to be a means of combating evasion. The electronic invoice, in addition to providing an appropriate and unified regulatory and technological framework, to manage the system of invoicing and tax control, generates savings, increases the efficiency of the checks on evasion, creates lower costs for printing and shipping, completes the automation and integration of processes between the parties and creates less risks of fake and duplication. It also results in automatic data reconciliation, a reduction in time and payments, VAT fraud traceability and control, a reduction in use, printing, imbustion and the cost of the paper archive, as well as a reduction in better time and organisational structures for adapting to the Industry 4.0 plan. While, on the one hand, invoicing is considered to be a means of combating evasion, this requirement is opposed, however, to that of a sector, the one that gets its hands dirty, of small and medium-sized enterprises, not yet ready to receive the new obligations. The fuel distribution market has a strategic role for the country's economy: it is worth about 45 billion euros per year of total turnover and includes about 80,000 workers among owners, collaborators and employees, employed at 22,000 plants in the ordinary network and about 450 motorway service areas. It was therefore necessary to intervene, in order to give the operators in the sector the opportunity to have the right time to adapt. An uncomfortable truth, however, is that the digitisation tools accompanying e-invoicing are not fully adequate and understood; it would be interesting to understand why. Why in ten years few cultural and material investments in behalf of those who get their hands dirty? Other interests, other investments? But you didn't know? We are therefore obliged to make up for lost time. And we will, leaving behind comments and smiles hypocrites. [[Applause from the L-SP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u41	Senator Biasotti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u42	Mr President, the 2018 Budget Act has provided that, from 1 January 2019, electronic invoicing becomes mandatory for all and has anticipated this obligation to 1 July of this year for fuel sales. The first observation on this decree-law of extension for this sector is that it was not made of spontaneous will, but under the pressure and threat of a strike. This makes me think that even on 1 January of the following year, when the rule comes into force for all, there will be enormous problems. The problems have already been well described by Mr De Bertoldi and others. I would just like to bring more small contributions to the House. On this matter, the representatives of medium and small enterprises in particular have expressed themselves with great criticality. I am talking about the Association of Small Enterprises (API) and I am talking about the National Confederation of Crafts and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (NAC), which has even set up a committee of 19 experts in all economic sectors and has verified that this would really be a very serious fact. Consider also that the entry into force of the mandatory e-invoicing rule from 1 January, during a period of celebrations, of concern for small businesses and of closure, will probably make it impossible to implement this law. Therefore, we have tabled three amendments, which specify and ask the Government for a moratorium. We ask for two things. Firstly, we ask for a year of testing, with a double track and without fines or penalties, because we would create costs on costs and inconveniences on inconveniences. I would remind the House that yesterday, in an interview on television, Minister Di Maio said that he would like to simplify businesses. I would like to point out to him that this is not a simplification for businesses, but it is a long process, like when mobile phones were born; it takes years and years of habit, especially for young people, for those who are uncomfortable. But do you see him as a craftsman or a merchant? Mr Bergesio, who encouraged me, spoke of farmers. But think of what would happen to so many activities, whose owners barely make the invoice, if we made electronic invoicing mandatory. In my opinion the opposite will happen: they will all become activities in black, because otherwise they do not give you the performance. This is a mathematical fact. Another consideration. I invite you, before you approve this rule, to go and see on the Internet. If you type in electronic invoicing, you will see that there are about twenty companies that propose to assist small taxpayers with costs, i.e. by making them pay. There's an endless series of them. I have read some of them: Arket, Aruba, RCSoft, Savino Solution, Pratice.it, YouDOX. If these companies smell the business, they go under and advertise. This means that this is a business and, if it is a business, it means it has a cost for small and medium-sized enterprises. I therefore ask the Government to simplify this. I shall close, Mr President, by asking Mr Bergesio (as I said before), with whom I have shared a great deal. Partner, you said two things. First of all, he said to give us something to do. The 5 Star Movement and the League had even asked to set up parliamentary committees before the government was born, to work. I am the Head of the Industry, Commerce and Tourism Commission. The government has been in office since 5 June last - it has been a month and 12 days - and I can say that we have done nothing. We talked and you masterfully did the immigration business. This business reassures me, but it doesn't feed me. I expect and hope that the things you have said - the abolition of the so-called Fornero law, the introduction of flat tax and the reduction of the tax wedge - will be done right away. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It's been too long. Preach well the policy of doing things, but I hope you don't scrape too hard. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u43	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you all know, the measure we are debating today introduces urgent provisions on electronic invoicing requirements for fuel supplies. In particular, the measure refers to the date of 1 January 2019 the entry into force of the obligation, provided for by the 2018 Budget Law, of electronic invoicing for the sale of fuel to persons holding VAT numbers at the road distribution plants, in order to comply with the general legislation on e-invoicing between private individuals. In particular, in the absence of the decree-law issued by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2018, already with effect from 1 July 2018, all the supplies of fuel for motor vehicles at the road distribution plants in favour of persons holding a VAT registration should have been documented by electronic invoicing. Indeed, the 2018 Budget Act, paragraph 927, fixed the entry into force on 1 July 2018 of the obligation of electronic invoicing for the sale of fuel to persons of VAT registration at the road distribution plants. It is appropriate to approve the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 79 of 28 June 2018, in order precisely to respond to the need expressed by the operators in the sector that - I would say quite rightly - would have found, otherwise, extreme difficulties to adapt to the reform provided for by the aforementioned Budget Law 2018. It is clear that the operation of the obligation of electronic invoicing since the beginning of the current month would have resulted in a strong discomfort and total unpreparedness of the parties concerned, as well as a form - allow me the deadline - of discrimination against the entrepreneurs interested in the supply of fuels, which would have had to adapt to a rule that for all other private entities will apply with effect from 1 January 2019. Contrary to the falsehoods sustained by some opposition forces, especially in recent days, the political line that Movimento 5 Stars follows is, among other things, marked by the protection and assistance to the entire entrepreneurial fabric of Italy, recognizing in it an indispensable added value to the national economy. I would therefore strongly like to say that the adoption of the measure under consideration reflects the clear will of the current Government to assist with rationality the productive system of the Country, represented by the enterprises, accompanying it towards the path of change, but in compliance with the necessary times for the adaptation of the enterprise to the laws. The 5 Star Movement, which I am honored to represent in this speech, is of the firm opinion that the world of entrepreneurship must be assisted and assisted by measures appropriate to its progressive development. The State cannot always take on the role of shark, but it must be the father who takes care of his children, who are the citizens. In recent years, despite us, we have seen a policy that is completely short-sighted to the needs of companies with the adoption of a series of measures that have increasingly alienated the confidence of the whole business fabric towards the State. This parliamentary majority of which I am part intends to completely reform the country, giving back to the entrepreneurs what the previous governments have removed, starting first of all from an intervention through an action of responsibility and common sense on the bureaucracy, which makes the business activity even more complex. The measure before the Assembly today, with a view to helping and not destroying Italian companies with the extension of the obligation of electronic invoicing imposed on fuel dealers of road distribution plants that sell to holders of VAT numbers, welcomes the many instances of entrepreneurs in the sector that are not yet ready for this necessary change of route, but at the premature time. The extension of this deadline - as can reasonably be deduced - will allow the companies concerned - as already foreseen for all other private companies that will invoice other companies - to have a further six months available to adapt to the reform process in question. We, ladies and gentlemen, have an obligation to do the interest of the State, which is equivalent to carrying out our mandate in response to the needs of people and, therefore, businesses. The measure is certainly in line with what has been said so far, and that is why it cannot fail to find the full sharing of this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u45	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u46	Mr President, the debate has been extensive and we have heard interesting points. The decree-law concerns the specific sector of petrol stations. We have heard so many interesting speeches, but they cannot be included in the measure which - I remember - comes from the Council of Ministers and, therefore, I can say that it is fine as it is.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u47	The representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply. I would remind you that the deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law is set at 7 p.m. today. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that following the nominations by the parliamentary groups, in Annex B to today's Minutes, the lists of senators who are to be members of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, the RAI Supervisory Committee and the Copasir will be published. The hours of convocation of the aforementioned bodies announced at the session of the Assembly on 10 July are therefore confirmed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u49	I communicate that the following bill has been transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: Conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 73 of 22 June 2018, introducing urgent and indisputable measures to ensure the regular and orderly conduct of criminal proceedings and trials in the period necessary to allow judicial building interventions for the Court of Bari and the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic at the same court (675).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u51	Senator, you intend to request an answer to a question about the League's funds. It is an end-of-session intervention that has the chrism of novelty.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u52	[[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u54	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, I appreciate that you have commented on the nature of my speech, but I do not agree with your comment. There are news, otherwise I would not have intervened, even if this is the seventh speech made by the PD Group and my third. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's what I meant, no controversy. Mr Parrini (PD). If I do that it is because every day there is a fact that makes it more urgent for the Ministers of Justice and the Interior to come to this House to answer our questions. But every day we have to take note that neither the Minister of Justice nor the Minister of the Interior feel the need to carry out this political duty that I would call elementary. We are talking about the scandal of the 49 million illegally forfeited by the League. The facts that are going on are extremely serious. I remember the very recent interview of the former treasurer of the Belsito League, full of very serious statements that up to now I have not received any denial; statements that make little credible the defensive thesis of Minister Salvini, who continues to claim that it has nothing to do with it, that what happened does not concern him, that he had no power to make important decisions. I am referring to what recently wrote the weekly "L'Espresso" on the allocation of funds of 2 per thousand, payments other than those of the North League, when it is precisely on the League that, following the judgment of the Genoa court, depends on the obligation to return to the State the 49 million that is believed to have been the subject of the scam perpetrated against the State itself. Today the review court has reaffirmed an important principle, that of continuity between the central structures and the peripheral structures of the party as regards the obligation to make compensation. Also today, the deputy general prosecutor of Genoa has confirmed the request to confiscate the 49 million in a trial that is of great importance. I think that, in the face of all these facts, it is inexplicable how the Ministers of the Interior and Justice have decided to continue to evade Parliament's acts of inspection union. For me Salvini's strategy, in particular, is clear: try to take as much time as he can because he believes or hopes that the fire will go out. I would like to say to the Minister that he is wrong: the fire will not go out on its own but, on the contrary, it will widen. To come to Parliament to explain and tell us what you think if what is being contested is not only your specific duty, but also your specific interest, because we think it is a great self-golf. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u57	TRENTACOSTE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last week in Regalbuto, a municipality in the province of Enna with a strong agricultural vocation, I discussed with farmers and farmers the inefficient management of water resources by the local reclamation consortium. This is a common problem for the whole of Sicily and for most of the regions of the Mezzogiorno. The case of Regalbuto is, therefore, emblematic of a criticality in the management of water for irrigation in large parts of our country. The Sicilian farmers pay the water at high prices, then sell their products with great difficulty and at broken prices, not finding space in a market already invaded by goods of dubious origin and quality. Consider that the contribution for irrigation works in the province of Enna already amounts to 542 euros per hectare, in addition to consumption. Those farmers pay the water from the first days of May to September, to benefit with great uncertainty only in July and August. The low rainfall of the autumn and winter period has created considerable damage to the crops of internal Sicily, having affected production and harvests, ending thus to adversely affect the now small budgets of the farms. In addition, late spring rains have compromised hay, preventing farmers from selling hay and forcing farmers to buy fodder at a high price. Colleagues, if you look at oranges, you see them first ruined by nature, due to the off-season hailstorms, and then compromised by man, due to the lack of water supply. In just a few inches the failures of a short-sighted policy are concentrated and the hopes of entire families of farmers are broken, pushing many to leave the land and discouraging many young people to devote themselves to the agri-food sector. The Sicilian Region, under critical financial conditions, downloads the costs of poor management of the reclamation consortia on the farmers, increasing the water rates for irrigation purposes. The old policy has, therefore, made electoral promises, but now it no longer has the money to keep them. Added to this are the debt situation of the consortia themselves, the irrational use of human resources and the poor state of the plumbing systems, which fail to guarantee the service, dispersing a valuable resource. I therefore invite the Government to urge the Sicilian Region to put in place decisive interventions aimed at achieving the objectives for which the reclamation consortia were created. Colleagues, a constant and concrete commitment is indispensable to avoid the collapse of the agro-food sector, to guarantee dignity to rural workers and to protect the quality of our products, unique in the world. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u58	Senator, it's a subject that you dealt with that many Sicilian citizens really live on their skin.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u61	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, as you are well aware, the CONI is under the control of the state, and therefore of the citizens, who today are witnessing the attack that for many months now the central governing bodies of this public body are carrying out to the detriment of the internal democracy of the national sports federations. The adoption of rules that exclude the members of the referees from representation in democratic bodies, with the right to vote, is a defeat for the sport system and for all those who practice sports at any level. It happens that the initiative of the CONI has been implemented against Italian football referees who are, at the moment, the only ones who have joined the governing bodies of a sports federation, with the beauty of 33,000 associated race directors; directors, we said, but also and first of all citizens who will be deprived of their right of democratic representation in the football government. The CONI, founded on the ancient values of amateur sport, has decided to remove a percentage of representation, moreover minimal - let's talk of 2%, President - and for this reason not determining for the purposes of sports policy, to reassign it to professionalism, that of out-of-control business, crazy spending, away from the real life and the contingency of our country. It is not plausible that a public body should be allowed to act in breach of existing legislative provisions, contrary to the principle of the internal democracy of the institutions, which are active ribs of our State, from which they also receive important economic resources to carry out the many activities of exclusive public interest. Add to all this that the CONI has commissionered the Italian Football Federation in January 2018 for the impossibility to form a majority and elect the new federal summits. Today that majority exists, it is very broad and consolidated and it has officially asked, with a loud voice, on the basis of current rules, to call for the federal elective assembly. On this, the ICON, through its summits and the Special Commissioner of the FIGC, is pursuing a strategy that aims to implement reforms that are far from necessary to ensure normal democratic life. In the light of this, it extended the Federcalcio police station until 10 December: basically a year's stop to democracy and that is intolerable. For all these reasons, it is time to address the most important issue. Without further delay we must find an answer to the basic question: is the CONI able to manage, today, on behalf of the State, the world of sport, or is it time to intervene on the organization, on the functioning, on the modalities of the conduct of the apparatuses that, drawing from the public money, are at the mercy of managers creators of a real master? If the CONI does not guarantee the democratic life of the organisations that are part of it, especially if one takes note of the lack of the will to do so, then there is only one solution: to rewrite the rules governing its life, tasks and activities, from a perspective of internal democracy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u64	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Brothers of Italy Group has today tabled an urgent question addressed to the Minister of expertise, the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, for the emergency situation that has arisen for the bad weather in the Upper Mantovano. It is an exceptional event from the meteorological point of view that took place in the night on 15 and 16 July and that has affected a vast area, in particular hitting the Municipalities of Castel d'Ario, Roverbella, Castelbelforte, Medole, Marmirolo and Cavriana. Fortunately there have not been any victims, but there are many damage caused to the houses, the structures, the plants and above all - this is the subject of our question - damage to the crops, in particular those of maize, rice and soya, as well as to the vineyards, caused also by the strong wind and the numerous floods. We do not know to date an effective balance of the damages caused, but they go to add to what has already estimated the association of category Coldiretti, which calculates in more than 15 million euros the damages caused by the bad weather from the beginning of 2018 to the present. I would also like to remind you that on July 3rd an exceptional weather event hit the so-called territorial part of the lower Mantovano. But let us move on: it is clear to everyone that recent weather events confirm all the risks associated with climate and seasonal change and the consequent repercussions on agriculture, even in terms of significant crop losses. We must also consider the resulting financial framework and the impact on the budget of local authorities of expenditure that has not been planned, as well as the difficulty that local authorities have in taking prompt action in relation to the so-called bad weather wounds. We cannot fail to mention the insurance aspects, which are contained in the CAP, which unfortunately are not always adequately reflected. In conclusion, Mr President, with our question, we would like to ask the competent Minister whether and what initiatives he intends to take in favour of the operators of the agricultural and livestock sector, hard hit by the intense and extraordinary weather phenomenon of which he has said and, if he does not consider, as a result of extraordinary weather events such as those that have occurred, to take prompt action to assess the existence of the conditions for the declaration of the state of natural disaster for the affected municipalities and for the local crops, which once again pay a very high price compared to the weather disruptions. Today I want to remind you that the Lombardy Region unanimously approved an urgent motion with the same address: we therefore ask the Government for a commitment and an assumption of responsibility. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u65	Senator Rauti, the Presidency will immediately forward your speech to the Government. We also join in solidarity not only with the citizens of Mantua, but also with those of all the areas of Veneto, which were hit by bad weather last night.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u66	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-22.ana.u67	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 18 July, at 11 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.53.
