ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. The first question to be asked will be 3-00099 on press reports relating to positions of the Minister of Defence. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u4	Mr President, I would like to point out in the preamble that SudGest Aid, as rightly pointed out in the document, is a non-profit consortium of which - specifically - I have never been president and in which I have never had the power to sign contracts, being an employee placed at the 7th framework level. This - and I want to say thank you to those who submitted the question, because it finally gives me the opportunity to explain it - was yet another fake news circulated in my account. I would also like to point out that, at the present time, I am on leave on an institutional basis. On the other hand, with regard to previous links with the company under discussion, relating to the specific circumstances mentioned by the honourable Member, it is clear that at the time SudGest Aid was the owner of a project financed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, titled "Programme for the reduction of illegal weapons in a framework of consensus, cooperation and development - Project for the reintegration of former fighters as security agents for the archaeological areas of Cirene, Sabratha and Leptis Magna. In order to implement the project, it was necessary to carry out a study on the area in order to understand what type of approach should be taken in that region and in that particular environmental context. The study was therefore aimed at identifying the best place to carry out the project and the one involved was a security company, with the task of carrying out precisely the assessment activities on the safety of the place where the project was to be carried out. On the substance of the question, therefore, in the light of the information given above, I hope that I have met the information requirement expressed by the interrogating senators, regarding the need to clarify with the utmost urgency the real relations with the aforementioned consort society SudGest Aid. Thank you and live Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u7	COMINANCES (PD). Mr President, Minister, I take note of your reply, but let me say that if you are so concerned about the fake news circulating about your role and the background of your activities, you should not have waited four months to give a "tick" answer to this question, which has enabled you directly to clarify your roles and the activity of SudGest Aid. I do not think, however, that it has emerged clearly what the Spinelli's role and link has been, which is mentioned in the question on several occasions and on which the press in your opinion have propacated and conveyed fake news. I am therefore not fully satisfied with your answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u8	Following is the question 3-00226 on the construction of a sewage treatment plant at Pescasseroli. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u9	Mr President, with regard to the issues raised, on the basis of the evidence acquired, it is necessary first of all to state that the agglomeration of Pescasseroli is the subject of the infringement procedure 2009/2034, initiated by the European Commission against the Italian Government. The reason for initiating the procedure in 2009 is that the Italian Republic has failed to fulfil its obligations under Articles 3 (sewerage systems), 4 (treatment systems), 5 (more pressured treatment systems) and 10 (insufficient load treatment) of Directive 91/271/EEC. In particular, the agglomeration of Pescasseroli appears to be in breach of Articles 4, 5 and 10 of the Directive. In view of the need to reach, as soon as possible, the resolution of the Community dispute and to give impetus to the implementation of the interventions in the agglomerations involved, the Presidency of the Council of Ministers proceeded, in 2015, to appoint extraordinary commissioners, subsequently replaced by a single extraordinary commissioner of government. As regards, in particular, the construction of the plant in question, as reported by the Region of Abruzzo, the park agency and the said unique special commissioner, the intervention Intervention related to the consort purifier and the collection of the effluents of the Municipality of Pescasseroli is articulated in three functional excerpts, for a total of 6,75 million euros. The Municipality of Pescasseroli, with resolution of 15 November 2011, approved the preliminary draft of the first excerpt that provided for the location of the purification plant in the locality Colle della Regina. Subsequently, with resolution of June 5, 2014, the Municipality proposed the reallocation of the purification plant from the locality Colle della Regina to the area in locality Peschiera. The reallocation was considered appropriate because the original location was too internal to the plain, making it necessary to build a road link, and too close to the Sangro river. This would have resulted in security issues related to the full and dry periods of the river. On 11 September 2014, the final draft first deletion was submitted to the Regional Coordination Committee for Environmental Impact Assessment (CCR-EIA). On 17 February 2015, the President of the Abruzzo, Lazio and Molise National Park sent a note to the Committee, expressing a negative opinion on the approval of the EIA. Consequently, in March 2015, the JRC-EIA gave negative notice. In the same month of March 2015, a meeting was held at the Regional Council to discuss the issue of the location of the purification plant. The participants at the meeting, taking note of the notice of rejection given by the JRC-EIA, agreed to approve, as the alternative location of the purifier, the proposal expressed by the City Council of Pescasseroli with regard to the locality of Peschiera. On 25 March 2015, a special meeting was held at the Ministry of the Environment, during which the Park Authority reiterated its orientation to relocate the purification plant from the locality Colle della Regina to the locality Peschiera. Following the Committee's notice of rejection of the original location, the contracting ATI then prepared the draft expert opinion of the first deletion following the change of location. The project maintains the economic framework of 4.150.000 euros and therefore the intervention does not present any financial criticality. In 2017, the project was submitted to the unique extraordinary commissioner who, on 7 September, entered into a specific agreement with the Abruzzo Region, the Agency and the implementing entity. In addition, an additional pump feeding system has been set up as part of the requirements for the construction of the work in order to remedy any malfunctions. The SACA SpA, the operator of the integrated water service, and the contracting station for the operation of the purification plant at the service of the agglomeration of Pescasseroli, has redefined the timetable of the works, providing as the start date of works on 2 October 2017 and as the date of completion of works on 17 March 2019; as the date of entry into operation for achieving compliance on 2 November 2019. In the light of the information given, it is therefore apparent that the intervention in question is in an advanced state of implementation and that the procedural procedure followed, despite the urgency imposed by the situation following the Commissariat, has taken into account the needs of the different territorial realities involved. In any case, it is reassured that the Ministry of the Environment will continue to carry out its monitoring activities and will maintain a high level of attention on the issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u12	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I thank the Undersecretary, but I cannot be satisfied because the exclusive object of the question was not to reconstruct the matter, which - alas - we already know, but concerned the final choice that was made in 2015. In fact, with the relocation, it was chosen to place the purification plant higher than the Municipality of Opi. This means that, in fact, a work is being built with an uphill sewage system, with all that this entails with regard to the burden not only of costs, but also the problem of lifting pumps. I would like to point out that, as already in the answer in some way is expected, in case of malfunctioning of the lifting pumps the result would be that all the black waters of the municipality of Opi would go directly into the Sangro river, with all that it entails. It is, in fact, a very delicate area because it is located almost in the heart of the National Park of Abruzzo and therefore to build purification plants with an elevated sewage system compared to one of the municipalities concerned would, also from the technical point of view, in my opinion very questionable and would have an impact not indifferent also from the financial point of view. Monitoring and control by the Ministry of the Environment are fine, but unfortunately these technical problems, which could have a devastating environmental impact for that area, are not solved. I also point out that the sewage system and the pipes also pass parallel to the flood plain of the river, with all that this entails, often varying also its path. I therefore consider the answer not sufficient and not satisfactory as far as we are concerned and I begin to be seriously alarmed about what might be the final results. In order to respond to a fair infringement procedure, however, choices had to be made also from the technical point of view and location that were absolutely appropriate. Today, Mr Undersecretary, you know better than I that we are not in the condition of a hundred years ago: there are technologies, possibilities and plant choices that could have solved these problems safely.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u13	Following is the question 3-00388 on repeated cases of fire within waste treatment plants in Campania. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u14	Mr President, with regard to the questions raised, on the basis of the elements acquired, it is to be seen that, with regard to the fire which occurred last June at Nappi Sud in Battipaglia, although it was found from the first findings that the burning did not affect the waste but the industrial shed with the machinery and some woody materials, the Municipality of Battipaglia, for purely precautionary purposes, issued, in the immediacy of the event, an urgent order ordering, for all residents, the removal from the houses and buildings falling within a radius of 100 meters until the end of the shutdown operations. In addition, the Regional Agency for Environmental Protection (ARPAC), fire squads and the State Police have intervened. More specifically, according to ARPAC, the analytical outcome of the top soil sampling for soil verification showed that soil samples C1 and C3 had concentration values below the contamination threshold concentrations for commercial and industrial sites and that the soil C2 sample had concentration values below the contamination thresholds for public, private and residential green sites. The analytical results for all three samples examined included concentration values below the CSC contamination thresholds for sites for public, private and residential use. With reference to the overlays for the parametrie in soil samples called C1 and C3, ARPAC considered that they could be attributed to natural background values. Moreover, from the analytical findings of the samplings useful for the research into the air of acyclic aromatic hydrocarbons carried out between 25 and 26 June, ARPAC did not show any criticalness with regard to the development of air quality. As regards the purely health aspects of the fires in question, the competent ASL reported that no reports of discomfort or discomfort were received from the surrounding population. In addition, ASL has activated specific monitoring on agricultural production and farms. As regards, more generally, the occurrence in the Campania Region of incendiary incidents, the Ministry of the Interior indicated, for its part, that it had adopted a special circular of 13 July 2018 following which it was decided to submit the regional sites to a more assiduous control activity and to include them, as objectives to be monitored, within the framework of the coordinated control plans of the territory, adopting such a determination within the Provincial Committee for Public Order and Security. The Ministry of the Interior has also pointed out that it has drawn the attention of the president of the Province of Salerno, an organization that manages the Stir plant of Battipaglia, as well as the mayor of Salerno, to the wider collaboration for the satisfaction of the recalled needs. These institutions have ensured their timely activation at participating companies operating storage sites for the adoption of the necessary passive defence measures in the relevant facilities. Without prejudice to the considerations set out above, it should be noted that, given the frequency of combustion episodes, in March last, the Ministry of the Environment issued a circular with a guide line for the operational management of storage in waste management plants and for the prevention of risks, with the aim of preventing the triggering of fires and promoting the correct management of storage at waste treatment plants. The Ministry has also undertaken, together with the command of fire brigades and regional authorities, activities aimed at updating guidelines for safe management of waste. The Campania Region, in turn, has indicated that it has started, with resolution n. 705 of last October, a strengthening of the activities of patrolling for the sites considered more sensitive and vulnerable and to have previewed, with regional law n. 29 of 2018, the elaboration of guidelines aimed at the implementation of measures of fire prevention for the waste treatment plants. In addition, during the conversion phase of Decree-Law No 113 of 2018, a rule was introduced requiring operators of waste storage and processing facilities to have an internal emergency plan in place, inter alia, to control and limit accidents and to provide for the restoration of the environment; the rule also provides that, in order to limit the harmful effects of major accidents, the prefect prepares an external emergency plan and coordinates its implementation. In addition, specific measures have been introduced in the recent Memorandum of Understanding on the Action Plan to combat the burning of waste, inter alia, to step up the coordination of prevention, management of the event and restoration of areas affected by fires, with a view to increasing the security of the territory and ensuring the protection of the environment and the health of citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u17	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, Mr Secretary-General, I must say that I am not satisfied with the answer. This is not for his courtesy, but because, as reported by the reports, I find it absolutely incredible that the events that occurred in Battipaglia, which is the second city of the Province of Salerno, on the occasion of the month of June did not raise social alarm and that the data can present a security situation for what happened, which was a really scary fire at the South Nappi, as well as great concern raised the fire that occurred at the Stir of Battipaglia. This is a city that has been tormented by political choices that have really made it the garbage place of the Province of Salerno. The citizens' hardships are on the agenda. The concerns that are being raised by the city committees and collected by the municipal administration are on the agenda. I would have expected more courage from the Government in the answer to this question, because what we are looking at in Campania is really paradoxical. The waste cycle in Campania is not at all closed. Campania is experiencing an emergency, and Battipaglia is one of the most critical points, due to the choices I mentioned earlier. The Campania Region of Governor De Luca has demonstrated all its inadequacy to address and resolve the problem. I want to point out that since the waste cycle in Campania was provincialized, after the shipwreck of the Bassolini experience that unfortunately brought Naples and Campania to the honours of the international chronicle, we did not know even one day that was not an emergency. Already in March I denounced that we were moving towards a new emergency and the facts, even those of the last few days, say exactly that. However, let me say that we cannot go back 20 years in a completely ideological debate (thermovaluer yes, thermovaluer no) when we have these situations that are not at all addressed. There is another situation of very serious emergency in Torre del Greco with walls of garbage three meters high and we witnessed, last weekend, a theatre inside the majority of the Government; we witnessed a visit to Caserta that I did not understand with what decisions ended in operational terms to face the emergency and close this blessed cycle of waste in Campania. I would therefore like to appeal to the Government, Mr Undersecretary, through your courtesy: pending the happy or unhappy decline, the stability of the provisional continues in Campania. A strong political initiative by the central government is needed to resolve the problem because who has been and who is responsible for the evil and this shameful situation certainly cannot be the solution and I am talking about the regional government of De Luca and the local institutions. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u18	The following are questions 3-00114, 3-00226 and 3-00308 on the lack of directors of general and administrative services in schools. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u19	Mr President, Senator Misiani, in replying to your question, I would like to point out in advance what was already represented at the 7th Commission on 8 November in response to a similar question, namely that the administration is in the process of banning, as authorization is imminent, the competitive procedure that will allow to remedy the management difficulties that have occurred so far due to the lack of staff in the professional profile of the directors of the general and administrative services, through their recruitment, as provided for by Article 1, paragraph 605, of the fiscal law for the year 2018. In accordance with the provisions of the national collective agreement of employment relating to the staff of the school sector, signed on 29 November 2007, the same competition procedure will be open to the participation of those who hold a degree in law, in political, social and administrative sciences, in economics and trade or equivalent titles. I would also point out that those who have carried out three years of service in the last eight years will also be admitted as Director of General and Administrative Services, even in the absence of the required degree of study. With regard specifically to the lack of alternative solutions that you have mentioned, I would like to reassure you that in order to cope with the shortage of staff in service, collective bargaining involves the use of a plurality of institutions. As a result of the procedures for the use of the provisional allocation, the replacement of the Director of General and Administrative Services (DSGA) is carried out in accordance with Article 14 of the 2018 supplementary national collective agreement hypothesis for the school year 2018-2019. In this case, priority shall be given to the administrative assistant without a time limit within the school, who holds the second economic position. If, on the other hand, there are several administrative assistants benefiting from the second economic position available to replace the DSGA, the school manager shall issue an internal selection notice for the identification of the administrative assistant to be appointed. In addition, if there are no administrative assistants in the school with the second economic position, the replacement of the DSGA may be entrusted to the administrative assistant with the first economic position or specific assignment; however, the latter, unlike those with the second economic position, are not obliged to replace the DSGA for the entire school year in the service school. Finally, in the event of non-replacement of the DSGA by a person within the school institution, the Regional School Office shall draw up a list of administrative assistants who have expressed their willingness to accept a fixed-term assignment in the professional profile DSGA. These interrogate procedures are of provincial importance but may also take on a regional or, ultimately, a national character. To conclude, I would add that, in the event that even the interview outside the Region does not allow to remedy the shortage of staff, Article 57 of the National Collective Agreement of 2007 allows administrative, technical and auxiliary staff (ATA), including the DSGAs, to cooperate with other schools in order to carry out specific activities that require particular professional skills not present there.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u22	MALLEGNI (FI-BP). Mr President, there was a good adage in the public administration (my old teacher taught me this): never put an architect to be the city councilman. It is a golden rule, in my opinion, that we should all remember when we make appointments in our administrations both at local level - and I look at President Calderoli, who may have a little more experience than he has just spoken - and at national level. When I saw the nominations of this government and found too many technicians instead of politicians, I was quite concerned. My concern has become palpable on several occasions, not least this morning, because we are limited to the analysis of issues from the technical point of view, always deriving from equally technical opinions, which come from within the Ministries. Now, I would not like to let Rocco Casalino's ghost, who protested against the technicians of the Ministry of Economics and Finance, in this Chamber. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] , but frankly I appreciated it on that occasion. In fact, as mayor and local administrator several times I have collided with insurmountable walls of technical issues, which in the end also hid political issues. Dear Undersecretary, you too, in my opinion, have the Minister's problem: little politics and too much administration; little knowledge of the territory and the real needs of the families behind the pupils. Dear professor, behind the pupils are the families, who every morning in 2,400 Italian schools - even this morning - find only people of good will, who for years - almost eighteen - perform the functions of DSGA and do so with a sense of responsibility and love, since you do not give them the money even for the regency and to move from one school to another, therefore free, because you pay exclusively with their salary and not for the additional occupied function. They hold schools because school directions are the ones that keep the system up. That's right. And I hear about a contest that - as you know - was conceived last year and banned this year - does not include a substantial reserve. His minister, our minister, when he was the school manager in Milan (the old student provider, who will remember at least those who are my age), healed this situation and in a logic of administrative-jurisdictional confrontation the position of the DSGAs, assuming in the higher role also those who did not have the title of the degree: they had a lower title but, having carried out for many years that function, they were integrated in the role. Then, suddenly, the minister was taken from the Ministry's disease, and when he entered the Ministry he probably reset his memory. I give you a tip: go to the territory, talk to those who use the services and take into account these people who for years have endured an institutional lack of the State, who left them in the trenches without even thanking them. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u25	Mr Misiani (PD). Mr President, we are talking about a very difficult but widely predictable situation, which involved, at the beginning of the school year, 485 schools in Lombardy, many throughout Italy, and 79 out of 139 schools in the Province of Bergamo. Without the DSGA there is the accounting and administrative paralysis of schools, which cannot pay alternates and suppliers, cannot take out insurance for employees, cannot manage plans for the right to study and projects. I repeat, total paralysis. We take note of the Secretary's response to the imminent call for a competition. 11 months have passed since the approval of the 2018 Budget Law; 11 months from the rule that has authorized the start of this competition. Let's hope the time has come. The point is, what do we do today? In the Province of Bergamo there are still four schools without DSGA. The pressure on administrative assistants has been empty; some have been responsible for this function for more than ten years without economic recognition, assuming responsibility not for them. The hairs are gone. One last one has been made in the Province of Bergamo throughout Italy; it expires on November 24 but, hearing today the head of the provincial school office, there is no reason to be optimistic. I would ask you, Mr Undersecretary, if you do not have to introduce a rule to authorize a regency by the DSGAs, as planned with school leaders, that is to say, to provide for a further instrument that will enable a situation which is frankly unsustainable and which weakens an essential public service for families and students to be resolved immediately, in the spirit of the competition. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u28	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we are not at all satisfied with the answer, not only because, as my colleague Mr Misiani said now, it has been a long time since last year's financial year when the competition was announced, but also because schools in many regions are really in a crisis. You, Mr Undersecretary, know better what roles and competences, even very delicate ones, today have the DSGAs, even with extremely sensitive responsibilities from the administrative and accounting point of view. With regard to the questions and attempts to give this delicate role to all those who at the moment have the function of the old secretariat applications, of the administrative assistants, you should ask why there is a negative response at the moment. The reason is very simple and you said it yourself in some ways: not only is there not even a minimum economic satisfaction but, in the face of such a delicate assumption of responsibility, there is not even the prospect - which you here, alas, have unfortunately come to confirm - that in the contest in which they will be able to participate there is the possibility of a reservation. On the other hand, I repeat that it would be absolutely appropriate, in the context of the competition or even at the same time as it, for all those who have assumed heavy responsibilities in recent years, because they are absolutely delicate tasks and there are also very serious situations around Italy. It would therefore be desirable to provide for a back-up competition or a back-up procedure, because this would create an expectation and give recognition to those who for years have assumed burdens and responsibilities without having anything in return, either economically or from the point of view of career progression. I hope, therefore, that action will be taken to resolve the most critical situations, perhaps using the hypothesis of regency, but above all to indicate a perspective because I believe that, in the face of a perspective, even a reserve, we can find more appropriate solutions even in the immediate future.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u29	Question Time on the agenda is thus over. The sitting is suspended and will resume at 3 p.m. with the question time. (The sitting was suspended at 10.12 a.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u30	The next item is the immediate questioning (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Economic Development and Labour and Social Policy, the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Steger has the right to explain the question 3-00396 on the promotion of hydroelectric power plants, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u31	Minister, several associations in the renewable energy sector have strongly opposed the draft ministerial decree to encourage the production of electricity from renewable sources, as it would significantly reduce incentives for plants with a power below a megawatt. In particular, however, the almost total exclusion from the incentives of the hydroelectric sector is lamented: in this way a support instrument for the small economy, the circular economy and the mountain economy would fail, as well as a lowering of the hydrogeological defenses linked to the regulation of flows and environmental compensation works. Moreover, the lack of access to an appropriate incentive tariff could lead to a drastic reduction of autonomous revenues for local communities, with obvious implications for the socio-economic development of the territory. Instead, we believe that the national energy strategy cannot do without this sector which contributes to the national economy in terms of energy, environmental, economic and social. This is why the Minister is asked to know whether he does not consider it appropriate to reconsider the criteria and power quotas made available for hydroelectric plants and, more specifically, whether he does not consider it necessary to facilitate access to incentives for existing and validly registered hydroelectric plants in a non-useful position in the 2016 Register, possibly providing direct access to the incentive tariff or any premiums. It wonders whether it does not consider that, in favour of small and medium-sized hydroelectric power plants, it guarantees direct access to incentives for new constructions, extensions and restructuring operations with simplified procedures. Finally, it wonders whether it does not consider to encourage new installations on sometimes free watercourses, considering that in the process of granting the hydroelectric concession it is assessed and ensured that the planned hydroelectric plant does not have a negative effect on the good quality of the watercourse.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u32	The Minister for Economic Development, Mr Di Maio, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u33	Mr President, senators and senators, the incentives for the production of electricity from renewable sources since 2012 have been characterised by admission and recognition procedures that guarantee a mechanism for controlling expenditure, both in terms of the overall ceiling not to be exceeded and in terms of annual allocations to each technology. The draft measure transmitted by the Ministry of Economic Development on 8 November 2018 to the Unified Conference for the acquisition of the competence opinion aims to give continuity to the installation of new renewable capacity, also in view of the ambitious draft Energy and Climate Plan that we are drafting, with which we aim to achieve a doubling in just over ten years of renewable energy production. In this context, in the absence of control of incentive expenditure, there would be a risk of overburdening the energy bills of households and businesses. That is why we have chosen - and this applies to all technologies and plant sizes - not to provide direct access to incentives, but to recognise the incentive only to projects selected following auction or register procedures, through the use of competitive criteria or priority requirements. In this way, in case of excess of applications, the most deserving installations can be identified from an environmental point of view or efficiency (meaning as a ratio between expenditure on incentives and clean energy produced). It is well known that, with specific reference to hydroelectric technology, the draft decree allows incentives only to those plants that do not make additional withdrawals from the water bodies that are the subject of derivation, namely to protect the rivers, the lakes, the streams, the streams and so on and allow an exploitation that is sustainable. This is also a choice made at the request of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, which arises from the need to ensure, also in terms of incentives, compliance with Community legislation on the protection of lakes and rivers, a sector - this - of particular vulnerability, which sees Italy subject to different infringement procedures by the European Commission for the violation of Directive 2000/60/EC (so-called Water Directive). The protection of the environment is a must for us. It must also be remembered the numerous protests received in the last year by various territories intensely affected by the birth of small hydroelectric plants, which have complained of the lack of programming in the use of resources, which, together with the high level of incentives and the mechanism of direct access, has ended up making too much pressure on the environment. We have a duty to take very strong account of the voice of the territories. The forecast contained in the draft decree does not allow to admit to the incentives the projects included in the 2016 Register in not useful position, since for the granting of the concessions and the authorizations for such cases have not been applied the guidelines for the environmental evaluations ex ante of the water derivations and the guidelines for the updating of the methods of determination of the minimum vital outflow. However, the subject will be discussed with the regions and local authorities in the passage of the text into a unified conference. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bagnai]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u34	Senator Steger has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u35	Minister, I take note of what you said. Of course, I am not satisfied with the answer, because - at least - we are talking to the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces; already this would be an important step and I think that in this case the State is mistaking the approach. Small plants are important for our entire territorial fabric, especially in areas where I know the situation. We, too, protect and try to safeguard the environment as much as possible, but while it is true that energy is needed, it is also true that healthy energy must be helped and subsidised. In fact, we cannot be against other forms of energy and, at the same time, not helping in particular small renewable energy plants. Minister, I take note of what you have said and I hope that in your discussion with the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces you will be able to find an opening to this.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u36	Senator De Petris has the right to explain the question 3-00394 on the effects of the CETA Treaty and its ratification by Italy for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u37	Mr Minister, you know perfectly well (because I imagine it has been your concern to set up the Task Force on Trade Treaties in the Ministry of Economic Development) that the first meeting was held on 20 November last year and that it was the subject of CETA and the issue of the protection of geographical indications, which is one of the most controversial and critical issues of the Global Economic and Trade Agreement. The problem is that this meeting - and clarification is mandatory here - has been set up entirely on an exhibition in favour of CETA. I remember that this happened in the presence of the Canadian ambassador in Italy and of Canadian lawyers, even getting to participate even a single company that - perhaps one of the few - has obtained the recognition and registration in Canada of the geographical indication. You know the whole situation better than I do, Minister, because I would like to remind you that in the election campaign your political side - with you personally - has fought to highlight all the dangerous and also very critical aspects of that Treaty on our environmental and agricultural system, on the health and rights of citizens. It is also clear that, precisely through France, thanks to CETA, Canadian cereals contaminated with atrazine have already entered the European market, for example, which is among the 99 chemicals banned in Italy and perfectly legal in Canada (which, moreover, is one of the most dangerous aspects of that Treaty). He also knows perfectly well, Minister, that the new trade liberalisation treaty, signed by Canada, the United States and Mexico, the new NAFTA, has changed many rules of the Canadian internal market, starting from the origin of the goods; so it will no longer be possible to identify the US or Mexican content in processed products from Canada. Minister, as you know, a parliamentary intergroup has been set up, already since the last parliamentary term and reconfirmed also in this, consisting of parliamentarians from all the groups opposed to the ratification of the CETA. I want to know from you, Minister and Vice-Premier, what your Government and yourself intend to do with regard to CETA: to submit the Treaty to the House for consideration in order to get to an effective rejection or find all ways to prevent its application, knowing perfectly what it should be for and what should produce the work of the task force? [[Applause from Senator Errani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u38	The Minister for Economic Development, Mr Di Maio, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u39	Senator De Petris, your concerns about CETA are the same as this government. The Free Trade Task Force, set up at the MISE last August, is a working mechanism open to the contribution of all social partners, aimed at assessing, on an analytical and non-preliminary basis, the impact of the free trade treaties under negotiation or ratification by the European Union. It remains our objective to demonstrate all the reasons why this Treaty, as proposed to us, cannot be ratified. We have a duty to protect first of all Italian farmers, entrepreneurs operating in the agri-food chain, whose activities must be protected, and the rights of Italian consumers. The studies of the working group will aim to focus both the benefits and the negative peaks of the agreements, essentially to protect the weakest social groups, affected by the globalization process, thus allowing the Government to identify the best approach to make Italy more competitive in the international context, while ensuring greater equity and social justice. The task force which met for the third time, as you know, last Tuesday at the MISE, was centred on the CETA Treaty. The debate focused on the issue of geographical indications, analysing the protection provided for in the agreement, with the methodological aim of having special sessions on CETA, each dedicated to a specific theme of the treaty. It has been considered here to extend the discussion on the new Canadian internal legislation on geographical indications, which adopts the principles of CETA by modifying the Canadian Trademark Act and which - allowing new indications not already included in the Treaty to be easily recorded - can offer a further degree of protection to our geographical indications, as well as the existing possibility of lodging complaints against usurpations and counterfeiting in the Canadian market (both Canadian and foreign). In the coming weeks, further meetings will be held on this Treaty and subsequently on the free trade treaties currently being negotiated by the European Union. Pending the outcome of the work of the Task Force, the Government, as provided for in the contract, will oppose the aspects that will result in an excessive weakening of the protection of citizens' rights, as well as an injury to the correct and sustainable competition on the internal market. We are on the side of Italian farmers and, of course, consumers, who have the right to eat healthy and certified food. I repeat, therefore, that the CETA, as it is, cannot be ratified. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u40	Senator De Petris has the power to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u41	Minister, you have now made a commitment here: Italy, therefore, through its Government, will not ratify the CETA Treaty; we cannot but be pleased, of course. We hope that the concerns you have expressed - and I had represented you earlier - will not end up with others, which we had in common in the last parliamentary term, but which have then been bypassed over the last few months. I therefore take note of what you have said, and I also hope, Minister, that the parliamentary intergroup which has set up to combat the adoption of CETA and other trade treaties can be made aware of the work of the task force, with a view to transparency and information sharing. This work, however, must at this point have a deadline, so that we can proceed to take a decision, which we will help to ensure that it is what you have come here today to tell us. [[Applause from Senator Errani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u42	Senator Marsilio has the right to explain the question 3-00399 on the prospects for revision of the reform of judicial geography, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u43	Minister, the inconveniences caused to citizens are known because of the reform of the courts, which closed about a thousand offices, in order - declared - to make the courts more efficient and less expensive. In particular, the reduction of the courts did not take into account certain territorial specificities, such as the orographic conformation and the situation of the infrastructure connections, the rate of litigiosity, that of criminosity and the presence of penitentiaries near the courts, some of which even enlargement. The government contract states that the 2012 reform must be amended with the aim of bringing back courts, prosecutors and offices of the peace judge close to citizens and businesses. These are a few lines, which, however, seem to legitimize the expectation that the Government will restore the so-called minor courts, following one of the many electoral promises. Despite this written commitment, nothing has been done so far. On the contrary, the statements made by Minister Bonafede in Catania on 5 October and at the House on 31 October show the intention not to reopen the suppressed courts, but to surrogate them with offices of proximity that are of no use, as demonstrated by the failed trial of Tolmezzo. These statements also provoked an equal and opposite reaction from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism, which called on the Government ally to respect the pacts on the subject. As the European Commission has pointed out for the efficiency of justice, under the conditions of access to a high-quality judicial system, having to attend a hearing set early in the morning for an elderly person or for someone who does not drive or is not equipped with his own means, in the absence of adequate means of public transport, is a problematic situation, which can affect the right of fair access to justice. This right is in fact denied when, as a result of the suppressions, the distances from the most distant municipalities to the merged seat reach even the 112 kilometers of Sulmona, to the 90 of Mistretta, to the 77 of Vasto, and so on, with travel times up to 80, 90, 115 minutes. Among other things, the orographic component of the territories concerned has been greatly underestimated: only to mention the highest average altitudes, Nicosia reaches 788 meters above sea level, Sulmona at 780, Avezzano 778 and Ariano Irpino at 617. The Minister gave no response to the request for alternative solutions submitted by regions and local authorities, such as those to safeguard the Abruzzo courts, which are still open until 2020, only thanks to a derogation due to the earthquakes that have occurred. This is a tragic situation and at the limit of the grotesque. What miserable state is the one in which citizens must wish themselves an earthquake or a natural disaster in order to be recognized the usefulness of the presence of courts, hospitals, barracks and public offices? The same applies to the Sicilian courts, for which the Region of Sicily has adopted a law and has offered to conclude an agreement with the Ministry, bearing the costs. [[Call the president back.]] For the need of the times, I welcome the President's invitation to conclude, limiting myself to just the following examples: out of a total of thirty courts abolished throughout Italy, can "vantar" four Abruzzo, which sees deserted its southern half of the territory, and three Sicily despite the high crime rate; one wonders whether it is appropriate to withdraw the state's presence in certain situations. Moreover, there is now the Rordorf Committee which has prepared a draft for the reform of the competition courts which will take further action. We therefore ask the Government what its intentions are with regard to the abolition of the courts; how it intends to guarantee the right of equal access to justice for every citizen; whether it wants to sign the conventions with the regions and local authorities and when it will receive the coordination of the suppressed courts established last July.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u44	The Minister for Relations with Parliament and Direct Democracy, Mr Fraccaro, in place of the Minister for Justice, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am answering on the basis of the instructions given to me by the Ministry of Justice. The distribution of the judicial offices on the national territory cannot ignore the peculiarities of the individual geographical areas that compose it both in relation to the quality and the quantity of the litigation and the criminal density that on the level of the logistic dislocation, also taking into account the non-secondary aspect of the distance kilometers, the connections and the infrastructures. An effort to rationalise must also be aimed at promoting the logic of specialization of judicial staff who are likely to be frustrated by excessive fragmentation of judicial offices. I must reassure the honourable Members that the action of this Government is absolutely inspired by the rules of territorial proximity. This is a concrete example of the extension, until 31 December 2021, of the temporary restoration of the detached sections of Ischia, Portoferraio and Lipari, the latter's seat included in the Sicilian territory to which the questioner refers. As for the Abruzzo courts that are being abolished, the regime of extension until 2020 offers, to date, a useful time bracket in which to develop every reflection on the possible solutions to be adopted in the future, always with a view to the sensitivity to territorial proximity. Moreover, with the draft legislative decree containing "Code of the crisis of enterprise and of insolvency," the precise choice has been made to keep alive all the current sections specialized, excluding any hypothesis of suppression. I must add, however, that a conceptual rethink of judicial geography is needed in order to note that the exercise of jurisdiction is only a segment of the wider system of justice, which also passes through a series of obligations and services. It is precisely in this vein that the project of the neighbourhood offices, developed with the aim of enhancing fair access to justice through the establishment of an integrated network of services to the citizen, conceived as a means of connecting not only the judicial offices, but also with any other institutional structure with which the user must interface in order to protect his interests in judicial matters. It is a project that involves the dislocation throughout the national territory of real counters dedicated to the citizen, at all surrogates of the courts, offering different and additional services regarding them, such as the sending of telematic data, the withdrawal of notifications and communications, the reception of documents and documents, without having to face any logistical displacement. The project, moreover, will be presented to the Regions, right here in the Senate, next December 11 and this will be the occasion for a direct confrontation with the representatives of the territories on the subject of judicial geography.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u46	Senator Marsilio has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u47	Mr Minister, your answer is absolutely unsatisfactory and negative. He used twists of words to not declare the truth that you do not want to reopen these courts and that the only exceptions you are talking about are, in addition to the Abruzzo one, Ischia and Lipari. They too, like the Abruzzo exception, are unfortunately due to a tragedy; earthquakes arrive and then it is discovered that it was better to have the courts than not to have them. But where earthquakes do not occur, the courts close and desert the territory. In fact, when a court is abolished in a city, professionals, studies, activities and professionalism are removed. The proximity offices you want to open, which you have already experienced in bankruptcy, are "certificates": places where you make certificates. It was enough to digitize the public administration to solve the problem. Of course, it is curious to mark an electoral campaign, perhaps in the territories of Sicily, Campania and Abruzzo on the collection of votes saying that they will reopen and defend the public offices of the territory, and then come to Parliament to applaud the Minister; this is the task that has been given you. Geography would be enough to understand that. I mention only the case of Abruzzo: it is enough to observe the dividing line between the suppressed courts and those that remain standing to understand that half the Region remains without a single court, when the neighbouring Region, in the same territory, has at least three and the neighbouring Province of Frosinone two more. I do not understand how it can be said that in that territory there is a fair access to justice, when it takes two hours from the most remote municipality (I think from Schiavi d'Abruzzo to get to Chieti or from Alfedena to get to L'Aquila) to be able to attend an audience. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u48	Senator Bergesio has the right to explain the question 3-00395 on the approximation of the courts of Alba and Asti, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u49	Minister, fellow senators, I present this question because the approximation of the court of Alba, located in the Province of Cuneo, to that of Asti, which is in another Province, contradicted at that time the legislative provision that the redefinition of the districts of the court should preferably take place within the same Province, also taking into account the fact that in the Province of Cuneo, third for territorial scope in Italy, three of the four existing courts have been abolished and that of Cuneo - the only one left - beyond the efficiency of the staff, has an overload of work that I recommend. The reform of judicial geography then provided for the abolition of the Alba court without taking any account of the fact that in Piedmont, under the Turin court of appeal, which collects two Regions (Piedmont and Valle d'Aosta) there were 17 courts present and that of Alba represented the fourth in ranking as volume of work, especially in terms of users and business treated. It must also be stressed that at the time ministerial parameters were evaluated, on all the territorial area and the other aspect of population density. Well, the Province of Cuneo comprises 6,900 square kilometers and I remember that, at the time, the parameter was that each court had to cover an area of 2,000 square kilometers. The population of the Province of Cuneo is 592,000 inhabitants and to have two courts it was necessary that the population was more than 700,000 inhabitants, which could be understood with the southern part of Turin, which was already an integral part of the Alba court. I also remember the fact that the court of Alba covers an area where the surrounding house is also present, with more than 200 prisoners. We therefore want to ask the Minister if he does not feel it is necessary to work towards reopening this court, in order to ensure better operation and better service of justice in this territory. I remember that in the Province of Cuneo there are 690,000 inhabitants, 80,000 companies registered in the Chamber of Commerce, with an unemployment rate of 5 percent, which means that there is operation and activity and therefore the territory needs fast answers also from the administrative point of view. Since we then have several reports of courts that will not be reopened, I ask what are the times for the removal of these structures and if any re-use has already been defined, because the local administrators ask us with great force. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u50	The Minister for Relations with Parliament and Direct Democracy, Mr Fraccaro, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u51	Mr President, I respond with the data provided by the Ministry of Justice. According to the data provided by the honourable Member, the abolition of the Alba court would have been a choice contrary to the criteria that led to the reform of judicial geography and would have led to detrimental effects on the territory in economic and logistical terms. At a recent conference, Minister Bonafede had the opportunity to personally collect the requests of the citizens of Alba, precisely with reference to the closure of the court in question. However, these requests must necessarily form part of the overall framework relating to the Province of Cuneo, as pointed out, on the other hand, in the organizational findings of the merger, which do not reveal any problems in this respect. The Ministry of Justice has also asked the first citizen of Alba to rely on the functioning of the office of proximity already existing on the territory, on which a detailed report is expected to verify the possible and the hypothesis of a further intervention. That said, the Ministry of Justice takes up the challenge concerning the verification of the efficiency of the judicial machinery, giving full attention to the needs of citizens, the territory and the need to guarantee a rational and widespread network of reference structures to guarantee legality. The commitment entered into in the Government contract, with regard to the revisiting of the reform of judicial geography, results, therefore, in the need to verify from time to time the rationality of the choices previously made about the dislocation of the courts and the options of amalgamation realized. Precisely in the direction of such a commitment, it will be possible, in the first instance, to think of a strengthening of the existing office of proximity in Alba, increasing its services in favour of the reference user basin, without leaving any further organizational choice of the case excluded, where possible and necessary. However, the particular sensitivity with which the subject submitted by the honourable Member is addressed has led the Government to decide, in some cases, towards organizational solutions considered more effective to manage the courts of certain territories, as happened with the so-called 2018 milleproroghe and with the draft legislative decree on the Code of Business Crisis and Insolvency. The concrete and operational vision of the justice system that is intended to be realized, pursues, in fact, the objective of increasing the level of services offered locally to the users with the putting in place of the offices of proximity precisely in order to guarantee an effective garrison of justice in the territory. In addition, a coordination activity with the municipalities is being carried out to gather information from the judicial offices concerned by reorganisation measures to examine the possible re-use by the merging offices and the territories of existing goods and/or equipment at the offices suppressed. In any case, in conclusion, it is stressed that any organisational change and distribution of offices on the territory cannot be separated from the balance between the various interests involved with a view to identifying the most suitable solutions to improve the effectiveness of justice at the service of the citizen, as a priority objective to be achieved, without affecting any of the needs at stake.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u52	Senator Bergesio has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u53	Minister, thank you for your answer. However, we have repeatedly complained, both as forensic orders of the territory and as administrators of the Municipalities (remember that it is a reality of 250 Municipalities, very dimensioned on the territory), that this territory needs an important administrative activity. I would very much like the Minister to take a careful look at what has happened since 2011, virtually reviewing this policy of decentralisation, which has been reduced over time, where the closure of these courts has created problems, both administrative and judicial, in situations that have already been compromised. I remind you, then, that our Province is immensely lacking on the infrastructure side. Let's forget about road infrastructure and other infrastructure, but let's also talk about broadband, wi-fi and signal reception. Therefore, distance is also complicated. (Following Mr Bergesio) We must reiterate, as you said, that the agreement leads, our movement with the movement to which you belong, to a revisiting of judicial geography. We ask you, therefore, to give effect to this contract with the same loyalty and transparency that distinguishes all this Government of change, of which you are an integral part together with the Ministers and with the President of the Council. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u54	I greet the representatives of students of the Istituto Superiore (Sebastiano Mottura) in Caltanissetta, who attend our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u55	The Senator Missa has the right to explain the question 3-00398 on the risks associated with interest rates on public debt and the composition of the budgetary manoeuvre, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u56	Minister, through this question we wish to express to you the growing concerns that concern many families and many Italian companies. After fourteen consecutive quarters of growth, GDP in the July-September quarter showed a first serious stagnation. If we insert this into a macroeconomic framework that all the observers and independent authorities, even during our hearings, have highlighted as worrying because of a slowdown in an expansionary cycle of the global economy, it is clear to all that it is not allowed and is not sufficient, it is inadequate for the Italian Government to limit itself to opposition to the past, because a government is required to guarantee a present and a future to this country. You have chosen to abandon the difficult path we have pursued in recent years, which combined support for growth with the consolidation and credibility of public finances. Minister, you know very well, as an economist and academic man, that credibility in the management of public accounts is necessary throughout the public administration, but it becomes even more indispensable for a country that holds the second highest public debt in Europe after Greece; a debt that must be governed and, in the deficit-GDP ratio, reduced, exactly as we tried to do in the previous legislature. Your policies, on the other hand, have so far produced an unsustainable, unfair isolation outside our culture of Italy in the European dimension; a frankly disappointing initiative, partly because it has been devoid of fundamental roots and the necessary antibodies. It was clear to everyone that even nationalists and sovereignists cannot access a new idea of restructuring and revisiting the European dimension, because sovereignists and nationalists are oriented towards building borders, building walls rather than building new relationships. With the budget law, you have used the flexibility required of the European Commission on inadequate ground, i.e. increased structural expenditure by reducing investment space. You have implemented electoral welfare policies to the detriment of the necessary investments in education, university, health, research, innovation and work. You have put the balance of the Government contract before the needs and expectations of Italians. But how is it possible to relaunch investment, Minister, in such a negative context, with the volatility of government bonds and the impossibility of quantitatively placing debt, with the burden of interest costs of mortgages on households and businesses, with access to credit that will become increasingly difficult? In short, we ask you what initiatives you intend to take in the European dimension to rebuild a proper relationship with Europe and which to protect Italian consumers and families. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u57	The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Professor Tria, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u58	Mr President, during my previous speeches in Parliament I had the opportunity to observe that the economic fundamentals of Italy do not justify the current levels of the spread. At the moment, I do not think it is necessary to anticipate extraordinary measures to protect savings, but I would point out that our system includes several instruments which have already shown their effectiveness in this respect in the past. I believe that it is in the interests of the country and the European Union that the tone of internal and external debate should be relaxed to ensure the continuation of the dialogue established, which must focus on the factual elements of the budget proposal and on the instruments for monitoring the public finance developments that we already have. We are convinced that the maneuvering system ensures full control of our public finances, within the limits of the moderate expansionary policy made necessary by the slowdown in the European and Italian economy that is intended to be countered. We also believe that the strategy outlined also guarantees in any case the goal of reducing the debt-to-GDP ratio, repeatedly reaffirmed by the Government. I would remind you that, at the moment, the design of the main measures of the maneuver is still being defined in order to ensure that they are as effective as possible in terms of employment and development. The dialogue with the European authorities does not focus on the strategic priorities defined in the budget, which are national prerogatives. The underlying reasons for the action that the Government is pursuing have also been highlighted several times in Europe and are further strengthened by the confirmed slowdown in the economy. With this manoeuvre, the Government is trying to counter the risk of a third recession since the beginning of the crisis, which could have devastating effects on a social and productive fabric already put to the test by what has happened so far. It is our intention to reiterate, in the context of the dialogue with the European Union, that the risks envisaged are not limited only to our own context, but also to the other countries of the Union. For this reason, it would at least be desirable for the European authorities to recognise the need to deal with these risks in a joint and unprejudiced manner. In this direction, the dialogue with the Commission continues, with the aim of achieving a mutually acceptable solution. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u59	I give the floor to Senator Misiani to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u60	Mr President, we appreciated the Minister's willingness, but his words did not convince us. The government has presented a maneuver that has been rejected by all, not only by the European Union; and it has been rejected by savers, who start to keep away from auctions of government bonds. The two vice-premieres, in particular vice-premier Salvini, used ironic words in front of what happened yesterday at the European Commission, even bringing Santa into play. Forget it: this is not the time for irony, it is not a joke with savings, work and the future of this country. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] The spread was 130 percentage points before the elections, it rose to 240 at the inauguration of the Government and for two months it has been attested to around 300. It is not a theme for financial speculators: it impacts on Italian families and businesses. It means more public debt interests, more interests for families and businesses, more problems for Italian banks. It is a real monetary crunch, which threatens to frustrate the expansive content of the maneuver. So we can't hold on. The theme is not only a dialogue, which has never started, with the European Commission: the theme is to change radically, first from the point of view of the method, opening a real negotiation with the European Commission, and then of the merit, changing the maneuvering system, making it really sustainable from a medium to long-term perspective and above all effective to revive the growth of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Steger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u61	Senator Damiani has the right to explain the question 3-00397 on issues related to the introduction of electronic invoicing from 1 January 2019, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u62	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the entry into force of the obligation of electronic invoicing between private individuals in a few weeks' time, from 1 January 2019, is causing serious controversy in recent days and in the last hours with the production fabric of our country: large and medium-sized companies, small businesses, professionals, VAT consignments. Those who, like us, are in this House under the mandate of the citizens today have a duty to denounce the real situation in our country. The real situation in our country, at this moment, is a strong protest and we must take into account the protests of our citizens. Imposing now the obligation of e-invoicing between private individuals is certainly not a constructive approach of the Government with the real country, with the country that protests. At this moment the obligation is seen, more than anything else, as a vexatory intervention by the Government towards those who produce every day. Technological adaptation is therefore seen not as a simplification but as a threat. We must not allow this, Minister, and the government must intervene in this situation. It is a reform that, therefore, is limping as soon as it has to go. Not least are the reports that come from the Privacy Supervisor, which highlights serious anomalies, especially in the transfer of data. Let us therefore pay attention, dear Minister, to what we are talking about: ignoring these warning signals today is irresponsible. We have to say it forcefully. We must listen to people and we must be able to interpret their difficulties. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The amount of revenue provided for in the budget has also been declared random by many members of the Government. EUR 1.9 billion has been entered in the budget, but these amounts are absolutely random, as they have been defined. Rather than lowering and imposing a reform from above, let us now try to find a solution, to streamline bureaucratic practices between tax and taxpayer. So let's try to help our citizens, the Italians. Doing business in our country today is heroic. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We must be at the side of our entrepreneurs, we must help them and support them. Then we ask you, Minister, that the Government adopt our proposal, that of Forza Italia, which we have also brought into our Budget and Finance Commissions, to postpone the entry into force of the reform by at least a year. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We are also asking for this by means of a step-by-step approach for small, medium and large enterprises. Then we also ask, as requested by the Data Protection Officer, that the data be easier to enter in the invoice. Last, but not least, it is the question of sanctions, because our entrepreneurs are already vexed and, if you foresee very high sanctions for those who miss a comma in the bill, we have absolutely wrong direction. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] These are the questions we are asking you, Minister, and we really expect the government to be able to interpret the country's need best today. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u63	The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Professor Tria, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u64	Mr President, with this document, the interviewing senators point out some critical issues regarding the introduction of e-invoicing obligations from 1 January 2019. As regards the request for differentiated time limits for the introduction of e-invoicing obligations due to the size of the undertaking, it is noted that this solution would introduce elements of considerable complexity for operators in the day-to-day management of invoices, with the need to identify from time to time whether the issuing entity, or the receiving entity, falls within the categories for which the obligation takes effect. And this is because electronic invoicing is a symmetrical process that obliges not only the issuing entity, but also the receiving entity, to manage as an electronic invoice for the purposes of VAT deductible. The current regulatory framework exempts taxpayers who adhere to the flat-rate minimum scheme or small farms from the electronic invoicing obligation. This scheme will be extended, pursuant to Article 4 of the draft budget law, to taxpayers who have achieved revenues, or have received compensations not exceeding € 65,000 per year. With reference to the findings advanced by the Privacy Supervisor, please note that a joint technical table has been activated between the Revenue Agency and the Authority, aimed at identifying the most suitable solutions to overcome what has been found. With regard to the disapplication or reduction of sanctions in the event of delays in the issuance of electronic invoices, it is useful to note that, pursuant to Article 10 of the tax decree-law related to the current fiscal maneuver, the entities that liquidate the VAT on a quarterly basis in relation to the transactions carried out in the second half of 2019 have the possibility to issue an electronic invoice by 20 August, without the application of sanctions, or by 16 November with the reduction of the sanctions of 80%. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u65	Senator Damiani has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u66	Mr. Minister, we expected a political, rather than technical, response. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] These are the answers you have to give to the citizens, because they must not simplify the life of the Director of the Revenue Agency. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , but it must be the State that makes the lives of all of us citizens easier. Imposing the obligation of e-invoicing is today a noose around our entrepreneurs [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And you can verify it directly from the electronic invoice of the public administration, which uses the refusal of payment in a distorted way. That is why our entrepreneurs are not paid by public administrations. These are the problems of our country, Minister. Do you want to represent the Government of Change? Be it then to the end and have the courage today to change the prospects, to listen to people, to lend ear to the real problems of the country. In this way, and today with this reform that will put our entrepreneurs in absolute difficulty, you are putting Italy in difficulty. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u67	Senator Pirro has the right to explain the question 3-00400 on the effects of the differential between interest rates on Italian and German government debt for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u68	Mr President, kind Minister, every day we read and hear news about the spread, that is the differential of the interests with which we place our securities against the German bunds, one of the most used indicators to assess the state of the Italian economy and debt. The spread is considered, in fact, an indicator of a country's ability to repay loans. Our public debt, consisting largely of the issued securities (BOTs, BTPs and others), is fully sustainable and credible, despite the recent unmotivated downgrades of two rating agencies; the same agencies that, until the day before the Lehman Brothers' bankruptcy, valued with the triple A the bonds issued by the latter. Having said that, many citizens and families are concerned about the cost of their loans already in place or of those they are contracting. I would remind you that the loans for the purchase of the first house constitute an important part of the total of loans granted to families. In the third quarter of 2018, the current outstanding loans reached the historical record, with a level of more than 318 billion. One Italian family in two buys the property by bank loan and every year about 500,000 are sold. In the light of the above, news from the media to households is likely to be misleading, triggering fear of increasing the rate from one month to the next. Of course, those who have contracted a fixed rate mortgage have the installment blocked forever, regardless of what happens on the financial markets. The main concern is, on the other hand, that households with variable rate loans are affected. Their fear is that there may be a direct or indirect correlation between Euribor rates, index linked to the variable mortgage rate, and BTP-bund spreads. To this end, we ask you, Minister, to know to what extent, in a short- and medium-term scenario, the BTP-bund spread could remain at current levels; to what extent such spread levels may affect, albeit indirectly, the Euribor rate and, therefore, the existing variable rate loan instalments and new loans; to what extent, finally, the possible higher cost of bank collection will be passed on to new borrowers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u69	The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Professor Tria, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u70	Mr President, the development of the spread on government bonds over the coming months will be linked not only to economic policy choices but also to the evolution of the global economic and financial framework. As regards the impact of the spread on mortgage loans, it is noted that the widening of this differential, recorded from May onwards, does not affect the operations already in place. They are fixed-rate, or indexed to the six-month Euribor rate, which is a European and non-specific rate in Italy. If there were any correlation between the spread of the BTP and Euribor, it would be indirect. The worsening of the differential on Italian sovereign bonds can influence the credit risk on interbank loans and thus also influence the Euribor rate upwards. On the other hand, concerns about the Italian situation could bring down expectations of the ECB's policy rates; which, on a level playing field, would imply a lower Euribor. The trends from May to today show that six-month Euribor has increased by a single base point (century percentage point), from -0.27% to -0.26 percent, while the yield differential on Italian and German ten-year government bonds (the spread) has increased by more than 180 basis points, from about 1.3 to 3.13 percentage points. In addition, with regard to new loans, recent developments could influence the margin that banks apply on the six-month Euribor rate (variable-rate swaps) and the level of long-term interest rates, in the case of fixed-rate loans. The data of the Bank of Italy, available until September, indicate that, until then, the spread did not affect the level of mortgage rates. In September, the average rate on new transactions, with a rate-setting period of up to one year, was 1.51 per cent, falling from 1.55 per cent in August and marginally lower than in April (1.52 per cent), the last month before the tensions on the government bond market. Even with regard to fixed rate loans, the Bank of Italy figures show that in September the average rate of new transactions with a rate-setting period of more than one year was 1.93 per cent, compared with 2.0% in April. The fixed rates offered to customers were probably influenced by the increase in long-term BTP return. However, the banks have passed this increase in an incomplete way, reducing their margins. In addition, the maturity chosen for loans could be changed to some extent. However, it should be noted that the ABI source data for October indicate an increase in the average rate of new loans, which the ABI estimates at seven basis points, to 1.87 per cent from the previous 1.80 per cent, according to its sample. In conclusion, therefore, in order to answer the specific question as to the degree of impact on mortgages of the possible persistence of the current spread level, it is evident that, if the increase in spread persisted over time, the transfer of rates from mortgage banks could be more significant, as the October ABI data seem to indicate. At the same time, it should be noted that the main reason for the resilience so far shown by the banking system is that the growth of bank deposits continued until September (and also October, according to the ABI), so that banks have the necessary liquidity. Moreover, it should be remembered that banks are better capitalised than in the past and have significantly reduced their funding gap (difference between the stock of loans provided and raised through deposits and similar instruments). [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u71	Senator Pellegrini Marco has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u72	Minister, thank you and I am pleased with your reply, including on behalf of the other signatories to the question. In such a sensitive area, we believe it is important to give citizens precise and timely information - as you have done - that they avoid the spread among the people of fake news or unfounded fears. As we know, our country is a great one, no matter what others say: we are the third European economy, the second largest manufacturing in Europe and among the seven most industrialized countries in the world and, therefore, we have every chance to continue to produce wealth, ensure well-being for citizens and return to being economic and political leaders in Europe and the world. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u73	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. 15.59 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u76	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, during World War II Foggia suffered very heavy bombings that caused a huge sacrifice of human lives. The victims were about 22,000 of a resident population of about 65,000, thus almost a third. This happened because Foggia was a fundamental railway junction (one of the most important in Italy), as well as seat of flight tracks and very important military airports. It seems, therefore, paradoxical today that Foggia was first deprived of a functioning airport and that then, little by little, its centrality in the railway traffic has decreased, having diminished the trains that transit there and stop there. This senseless work of subtraction had its culmination with the new railway timetable, which provides that two Frecciargento, with daily departure from Bari to Rome and return, stop not at Foggia, but at Caserta and Benevento, two other important provincial capitals on the route. All this has been established to save eight or nine minutes of journey on the route between Bari and Foggia, ignoring the mobility needs of the inhabitants of the second Province in Italy by extension, which presents a huge deficit from the infrastructural point of view and public transport on both iron and rubber. For this reason I ask Trenitalia, also on behalf of the other MPs of the Movimento 5 Stars of the province of Foggia, to review this decision and to predict the stop at Foggia station of these and other trains that transit through the city, being completely absurd and uneconomic to accept the idea that infrastructures and means paid with the taxes of all Italian citizens are placed at the service of only some and not others. It is not acceptable that some trains pass through an important provincial capital and do not stop there. The citizens of Foggia have expressed their deep disappointment in the last hours and are waiting for immediate and positive answers from Trenitalia. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u77	This would have been more a matter of questioning than an intervention at the end of the session, indeed, Senator Pellegrini, being you among other things a majority senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u80	GAUDIANO (M5S). Mr President, Senators, I must, with great regret and sorrow, make you aware of yet another feminicide that took place in Sala Consilina, in the province of Salerno, about fifteen days ago. A very young woman and loving mother of three very tender children has been the victim of a heinous crime. The author didn't hesitate to spill an entire tank of gasoline on her and set her on fire. The gruesome crime has shaken the entire community of Sala Consilina and still today in the country are a veil of dismay, amazement and sadness combined with a strong sense of closeness and mourning towards the family. It was a criminal and brutal act, committed in total violation of human rights. We strive, as good Christians, to find justification, but the horror is so great that we cannot allow it. Every three days in Italy a woman is killed by a husband, a boyfriend, a partner or a former life partner. The causes are generated by a strong sense of insecurity, a desire for psychological domination over the enslaved woman, violent and abusive behavior or by not wanting to become addicted to the condition of eventual abandonment; while, on the other hand, there is the lost, submissive woman, unable to find the courage to denounce and put an end to the undeserved torture. This problem has become universal and affects everyone, and not only those who, in various ways, have been directly or indirectly victims of such heinousness. It is no coincidence that a world day has been set up against violence against women, so that the sacrifice of so many innocent victims is not in vain. Now we must reason in terms of real social emergency and the problem must be addressed at the root, involving all, private citizens, institutions and above all the school, which must play a primary and indispensable role in order to inculcate in the minds of young people respect for neighbour, the sacredness of life and the free and peaceful coexistence between all the associates. Unfortunately, all too often love and dedication to a husband or companion are rewarded with the loss of life. So far something has moved at institutional level, Mr President and Senators, but it is not enough, given the latest heinous events. Today, we pay back with violence and horror the one who Christianly made his message of Christ and in that love believed; he lived receiving in return, as a sacrificial lamb, a violent death. The time has come to rebel against all of this and let us once and for all put an end to this abomination. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u83	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I use this space to point out to the Presidency that we are opposed to what has happened today in the Justice Commission and to make it aware that certain ritualities no longer happen. I am referring to what happened at a meeting of the Bureau - which is also very precarious, since it is not planned - where it was decided to hold tomorrow the examination of the so-called anti-corruption bill, which is still the subject of a vote in the House of Members. I do not want to go in for a moment on the substance of the political facts that can motivate a move as quickly as possible by the majority parties. I would just like to point out to the Presidency that, because of the respect we owe to this institution and the relationship between the two chambers, such irritality must be avoided. I think that it is in everyone's hands that what has happened today should no longer happen, with an attempt to incardinate on tomorrow's day a measure which is not yet available to this branch of Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u84	Senator Ferrari, it will be my care to pass on your solicitation to the President of the Senate, also because I agree perfectly.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u85	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-62.ana.u86	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 27 November, at 9 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.06 a.m.
