ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 4 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u3	I communicate that on 4 October 2018 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of the Interior: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 113 of 4 October 2018 on urgent provisions on international protection and immigration, public security, and measures for the functionality of the Ministry of Interior and the organisation and operation of the National Agency for the Administration and Destination of property seized and confiscated from organised crime" (840). I inform you that on 6 October 2018 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 115 of 5 October 2018 laying down urgent provisions in the field of administrative justice, legal defence and the regular conduct of sports competitions" (846).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u4	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the M5S Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, a request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u5	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Senators, as President Mattarella reminded us this morning, today is National Day in memory of the victims of environmental and industrial disasters caused by man's neglect. In choosing the date for a day of reflection and awareness so important, the Parliament in 2011 had no doubt: 9 October is in fact a day sculpted in Italian history. Fifty-five years ago the tragedy of Vajont struck entire communities, destroyed villages, villages, entire valleys. The confirmed victims were over 1,900, including about 500 children; an unheard-of disaster with incalculable consequences, a disaster that could and should be avoided. The memory of those days still gives us the image of a wounded, unbelieving nation without certainties. A nation that was able to rise up, helping and supporting the inhabitants of the affected territories, to whom my thoughts and my closeness go. After those tragic events, Parliament was able to interpret the need for a cultural and legislative change, but today it appears, as it did then, to be overcome by events, climate change and history. Our duty is to create conditions so that there are no more tragedies like those of the Vajont, there are no more bridges that collapse, there are no more deaths from landslides, floods or floods. We are all called to a challenge that does not admit referrals, does not allow occasional solutions, does not contemplate shortcuts. Politics, institutions, enterprises, scientific community: the time has come to rethink together the entire national infrastructure heritage. We all know how extraordinary Italy is; it is our historical, artistic, architectural heritage, as well as environmental, natural and landscape. However, Italy is also fragile. It will be up to us to keep it and love it with respect, to deliver it even more beautiful to future generations. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u8	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, thank you for your kindness. I would just like to remind my colleagues of a sad event that struck my city, the city of Bologna, on 5 October. He left us Professor Franco Pannuti, the primary oncologist of the oncology division of the Malpighi hospital in Bologna from 1972 to 1997, who in 1978 gave rise to an extraordinary experience for this country, National Cancer Association (ANT), a nonprofit reality that in forty years of activity has brought free medical assistance to over 125,000 people suffering from cancer. Speaking of the ANT, only in this way can we convey the deep sense of the mission of this extraordinary man, that of guaranteeing the cancer sufferer the quality and dignity of life at a difficult time of illness. Thanks to Franco Pannuti, a precursor of a health care able to put human dignity first, every year more than ten thousand sick people are assisted with deep care and love and can choose to live this tragic moment of their existence at home, surrounded by family affections, without having to give up qualified medical and specialist care. The ANT is this: the free home care project, which has been able to multiply at national level and today counts on twenty specialist medical and health teams present in eleven Italian regions. These operational units are joined by over two thousand volunteers, who every day provide human, social and psychological support to patients affected by cancer to their loved ones. In eighty-six years Franco Pannuti has given so much, also as a public administrator (he has been city council member in the junta Guazzaloca), a figure remembered by all and by all administrations of any political color in my city. I want to say goodbye to him with the words he left us. He said: "Bologna loved me and I loved her, with the city I had a great debt, as a citizen, student, professional and administrator, and I had the privilege of serving her. Bologna was for us at ANT the starting and finishing point, a great mother, a great encouragement for all Italy. This stated Professor Pannuti a few years ago and I believe that remembering him today in this Chamber is a source of pride for those who have seen this flower, the ANT, to grow and multiply. I would like to address a greeting to the daughter Raffaella, who took the witness of this extraordinary organization and who in just a few minutes, at the Galleria Alberto Sordi will present (it was a planned appointment for some time, before this tragic event) the new initiatives that the association will put in place on the national territory. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u9	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00041 (text 2), tabled by Senator Marcucci and other Senators, 1-00043, tabled by Senator Bernini and other Senators, 1-00044, presented by Senator Ciriani and other Senators, and 1-00045, presented by Senators Romeo, Patuanelli and other Senators, on programmes for redevelopment of the peripheries. I call Senator Ferrazzi to explain motion 41 (text 2). (16.45 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day because, after weeks - indeed months - of often vain words and unfortunately also of chatter, we have the opportunity to cut off the bull's head: finally we have the opportunity to say a clear and definitive word in the Senate Chamber about the funds that were cut a few weeks ago by the thousand-pronged decree. I am referring to the EUR 1.6 billion that this majority and this Government, with a stroke of a pen, wanted to steal from the municipalities for the ban on the outskirts. A single article within the decree one thousandprorogues in a single blow has made clear agreements signed with the Municipalities and with the Metropolitan Cities; it cleans up thousands of projects activated by hundreds of municipalities involved, hundreds of public-private partnership agreements that the Municipalities, by virtue of an agreement, a convention, a contract signed at Palazzo Chigi with the then president of the council Gentiloni Silveri, had decided to carry on and therefore, in the light of this promise verbalized and signed by the State, had taken action accordingly. Well, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no trace of all this; or rather, the acts of this branch of Parliament have defined with a stroke of a pen that suddenly those 1.6 billion are no longer there and are postponed to future funding which is not understood correctly when, or how, but above all it is not clear what funding and what municipalities will be provided for. Mr President, this opportunity, in its official form, is also very useful to clarify some of the issues that have been misplaced during the debate over the last few months, the first of which concerns leftovers. The same State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance Castelli, immediately after the cut in the milleproroghe decree, had said that they were unlocking the administrative surpluses for the municipalities. Attention, ladies and gentlemen: the administrative surpluses are already in the hands of the municipalities, because it is money from the administrative surpluses of the local authorities themselves; therefore, superimposing the two things is not only artificial, but it is completely incorrect, because the fund for the suburbs is instead a financing that the State transfers to the coffers of the municipalities. Moreover, even in this case, the provision to unblock the administrative surpluses was not a will of the Government, but it was a technical transposition signed rightly by the General Accountant of the State on 3 October, with which it was noted two judgments of the Constitutional Court that reiterated a simple concept: the administrative surplus remains in the availability of the institution that realizes it. This is what the General Accountant of the State has written, citing the judgments n. 247 of 2007 and n. 101 of 2008 of the Constitutional Court (which repeated exactly what expressed in the first judgment). In the motion tabled by the majority, which will be debated today, we can in practice say: All right, Municipalities, replace the budget gap we created for you and the money we took from you with the administrative surpluses. Apart from what I have just said, Mr President, the municipalities that would be able to replace the figure with the administrative surplus, out of 326, are only 15. So, net of all the remarks we've just made, we'd only be able to cover 4% of the municipalities we're talking about today. It was then said by authoritative government representatives that the ban on the outskirts is unconstitutional: none of this, President. Simply, the Constitutional Court ruled that for part of the financing (800 million euros, about a third of the total, which I remember to be 2.1 billion euros) there was a partial unconstitutionality: this is the part related to the agreements with the Regions. The same ruling of the Court ruled that it was sufficient to convene the unified conference, to put the item on the agenda, to sign the agreement and everything would have been resolved; well, neither at the meeting of the Conference on 6 September nor at the meeting of 20 September, the item was placed on the agenda. So it was a specific will of this Government to find a captious argument to block the fund for the outskirts: this is the fact and these are the real administrative legal acts beyond words. Mr President, I hope that no one in this House today will dare to repeat what Mr Stefani said last week when our Group put a question on this point. The Minister said that the Government, also in view of the commitments made by the President of the Council of Ministers in the meeting with the ANCI of 11 September, intends to adopt specific measures intended for the 2018 Budget Law, to ensure, in accordance with a more effective allocation of the resources available, suitable solutions to the demands of the institutions. This is not political, but it is "hyperpolitical," to say everything and the opposite of everything. It is the total absence of an indication from the Government; indeed, it is the verbal explanation, within this House, of the fact that the Government is not providing for anything to resolve the issue. Attention, President and colleagues, we would not even like another issue to be raised here today, which we have always read in the motion tabled by the majority, namely that of saying to the municipalities: You know what? You can make mortgages with the Deposit and Loan Fund, you can always go to mortgage and you can always make debt exclusivity. This is written and I hope it has been modified. This would be an absolutely unacceptable solution for the mayors. Go tell the mayors: 33% of these bans all procedures have already begun. The tendering procedures have already begun; 9% of these thousands of projects already have open yards. Countless municipalities have already called for 20% of the resources to be anticipated as foreseen in the call for proposals. What are we talking about? Do we want to take a tour of the municipalities and the outskirts, where there are the committees of citizens, especially the most defenceless and in difficulty that were eagerly waiting, finally, for the recovery, the redevelopment and the safety of those areas? [[Applause from the PD Group]] That security with which this government and this majority have filled their mouths in the electoral campaign and which now, in the first official measure, they tarpan and cut. Would it be better for you to feed the uneasiness in order to make a profit from the electoral point of view? Do we want to solve problems or do we want to chat? [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Some mayors in the stands stand and wear tricolored bands. Applause from the PD Group at the Forums.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u11	Senator Ferrazzi, I'll have you finish the speech as soon as the order is placed in the Chamber. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Please finish the surgery. You know better than I the rules of the Senate Chamber: they are not allowed demonstrations in the forums. [[Comments from the PD Group]] I am maintaining order in the Senate Chamber and I would ask you to cooperate with your colleague, who has to finish the speech, in the respect of him. MALPEZZI (PD). Ma'am, leave the tricolor alone.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u12	President, what you are doing as a government has happened here: you are hunting mayors, local communities. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You fill your mouth with provisions and attention, but put your debts on their shoulders. You actually want to subtract...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u13	Senator, there is a Rules of Procedure for the administration of the Senate Chamber, of which I would ask you to take a look.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u14	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). I am not going to go into the substance of the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, but I am talking about the measure. It says that you have actually removed EUR 1.6 billion from the outskirts to use them for citizenship income. This says your measure, to keep your electoral promises. We represent all 20 million citizens who are entitled to this funding because the projects we are talking about concern 326 municipalities, including the largest municipalities in our country, for a total of 20 million citizens. One out of every three citizens is deprived of their funding. This is unacceptable. Mr President, our appeal is of course addressed to everyone. The mayors, when they win the elections and are preparing to govern the territories, have no political color: they represent the territories, the citizens and, in particular, those in difficulty. Our appeal today is: to respond to all mayors, whether they are of the League of Movimento 5 Stars or of other political colors. Our interest is that the measure in question should finally and adequately respond to the issue of the suburbs. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Senator Damiani to explain motion 43.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u15	Mr President, Government, fellow senators, I would like to thank the Forza Italia Group for the opportunity it gives me to explain our motion on the so-called ban on the suburbs in this House. The call was established by the law of stability of 2016, which provides for an extraordinary program of intervention for urban redevelopment and security of the outskirts of the metropolitan cities and the provincial capital municipalities. With the ban it was initially planned an appropriation of 500 million euros just to carry out urgent interventions of urban regeneration, which today is a topic to the attention of many municipalities of our country and also of this Parliament because are remarkable the deepenings that in these classrooms we do continuously, week after week, on the development of urban regeneration in our country. This ban included not only regeneration projects, but also sustainable mobility, the development of urban practices, metropolitan welfare models and everything that could be needed to restore not only urban decorum to our cities, but also social decorum. Let us retrace the passages of this ban and, therefore, of what has happened in the last two years. On 1 June 2016 the notice is presented in the Official Journal and detailed rules are laid down. Subsequently, with a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 6 December 2016 all the projects are presented and in practice there are 120 projects of Towns provincial capital that apply to obtain this financing; and the first 24 are those immediately useful in ranking in order to obtain precisely the first appropriations, the famous 500 million euros. On 6 March 2017, the first 24 municipalities are called to Palazzo Chigi, where they go to sign the conventions directly with the Government. It is already expected, at that particular time, that the possibility (because all the projects are admitted and are therefore available for financing) to find the resources that then serve to continue the scrolling of the ranking and to bring to completion all the 120 projects. Outside 96, which are then financed with €800 million provided for by the next budget law (the one for 2017) and with another funding of about €800 million on the 2014-2020 Development and Cohesion Fund. In order to complete all these projects, approximately EUR 1.6 billion are allocated and made available to the municipalities that have awarded this call. Subsequently, with another decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of May 2017 (and related CIPE resolutions) the overall path is perfected, precisely in order to be able to finance and carry out all the projects today, even the residual 96. Then what happens? Under the pretext (because we certainly believe it to be so) to implement a decision of the Constitutional Court of 13 April 2018, with a declaration of illegality referring only to one party, in which it was expected that an agreement had to be concluded or found in any case on the territories precisely in the matter of regional competence (so, as has also been said in other interventions on questions that we have previously submitted, an agreement with the Municipalities would be enough to be able to unblock this financing), this decision is taken, which we consider to be completely arbitrary and disproportionate, which harms the collaboration between Government and local authorities. We believe that today, with this political action on the part of the Government, this process is stopped, as it has been and has happened, because although there have been meetings with the Government and the local authorities represented by the ANCI, there has been absolutely no solution. We believe, as indicated also in some studies carried out by the ANCI, that these are important projects, which today can really lead to the development of a capacity not only for the growth of our territories but also of investments. With these studies the ANCI in fact believes that with only 1,600 million euros, how much previewed in order to be able to put into implementation all the projects, we can develop a growth of our Country for beyond 9 billion euros. The ANCI has examined and continued to examine all the projects and believes that many of them are already in progress (we have also checked this, touching all our realities with our hands). Many municipalities have already deliberated and have already assigned the work; so many municipalities today are really in economic and financial difficulty. On 11 September the meeting requested by the National Association of Municipalities was held at Palazzo Chigi. At that juncture there was a very important statement from the President of the Count Council: I listened with great availability to the requests of the ANCI and with the mayors present I shared the objective of starting a path to reach the best possible solution and as quickly as possible. The solution that we intend to adopt is to include in the first useful decree (following the conversion of the milleproroghe) a rule that in fact gives the possibility to recover the feasibility of the projects already in advanced phase. In essence, this will ensure a smooth continuation of the projects already implemented, which are essential for putting municipal administrations in a position to provide citizens with services and investments, offering the necessary resources on the basis of the actual state of progress of the projects. These are the statements made by the President-in-Office of the Council, who are still here today completely ignored. We therefore believe that it is entirely wrong, from a political point of view, to postpone such a comprehensive investment programme for the benefit of our municipalities, which are already heavily penalized by cuts to various types of funds and funding. We therefore ask the Government to provide in the forthcoming budget law for 2019, which we will begin to deal with in the coming days and hours, provisions aimed at re-introduce all the resources necessary to ensure the full financing of the remaining 96 conventions. If this were not the case, we would once again be forced to make a negative assessment of the Commission's economic performance. A government that confirms its allergy, apparently, to investments and that, with full conscience and will, penalizes the local authorities, preferring to divert those resources, that would have been spent in public works of high social utility and would have put in motion a virtuous circuit of work and income, to feed donations of mere welfare: a vision that we reject and against which we ask to intervene decisively. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u16	I would like to ask the President to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u17	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I have asked for the floor to speak on the order of business. I have again consulted the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, because I must tell you that the expulsion from the gallery of mayors who had worn, in order to show their role in the Italian order, the tricolor band really surprised me. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Mallegni.]] It is clear that the Rules of Procedure do not regulate this case: they merely call for no demonstrations of refusal or consent to be made in the forums in relation to the current debate. Therefore, the decision to expel visitors from the Chamber regularly accredited for wearing the band with the tricolor for me was very surprising. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Casini.]] I therefore ask you, Mr President, to place in the proper seats, which you are certainly able to identify better than I, the question of whether or not the mayors of our country should wear that mark in the Senate's forums, which seems to me to prove nothing: it shows neither that it is allowed nor that it disagrees with what is being discussed in this House, but only shows that it is Italian mayors. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] It seems to me that this is a faculty that we cannot take away from the mayors. I don't think the authority of the Senate presidency can go this far either. The mayors in our country have that mark, I must say a beautiful mark: let them wear it also in our forum. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u18	Senator Zanda, the mayors in the gallery did not wear the tricolor band. During the intervention of Senator Ferrazzi of the Democratic Party Group they started to stand up, probably to wear the band, whose use is governed by law. I read to you Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure and I remind you that I have never asked for anyone to be expelled from the gallery, but the order has been returned to allow the work to continue. Article 71, Senator Zanda, reads: During the sessions, persons admitted to the stands must stand uncovered and silently, abstaining from any sign of approval or disapproval. [[Comments from Senator Bellanova.]] Parliamentary assistants accompanied the mayors outside because, during the work of this House, they rose and created a bit of confusion. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] . Enjoyment by the PD Group). No one has been expelled and therefore, in the respect of the colleague who was finishing his speech, as soon as the peace of mind in this House has been restored, work has continued. Mr Laus (PD). Put the belt on!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u21	DE POLI (FI-BP). Mr President, I am only speaking to clarify the situation. With my colleague, Mr Questore, Senator Bottici, we went up to the stands, there was also a colleague of the PD Group, Senator Astorre. We've had all the mayors sit down, so they're all in here. In this respect, therefore, there has been nothing special. There has been a well-established practice since the last parliamentary term, but already in previous legislation, which has also been adopted with regard to the ANCI - whether it is correct or not - is another assessment that we will be able to review - so that all those sitting in the gallery do not wear any signs of recognition, starting with the band. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] COMINANCES (PD). That's not true! DE POLI (FI-BP). I tell you that this is a practice that is now being followed. If you want to change it, you go to the Presidency Council and you can do it quietly. In any case, I would like to point out that there is no controversy; it is only a question of clarity and I say this with great simplicity, greeting the mayors who are here with us because they represent the Italian people from whom they were elected like everyone else in this House. [[Senator Begin's comments.]] We therefore thank them for their presence, we are very pleased. [[Applause from the FI-BP, M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Unfortunately there are rules, but we are happy that they are here with us because they represent our territories and many of us have also made their way within the territory: I myself have been the mayor and city councilman, like so many of us and I believe that this is the most important aspect. The mayors are in fact the closest to our citizens, those who every day have to respond to the problems that exist and on which their jacket is drawn, with situations that are clearly many times even difficult to solve and I believe that they are here for this. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u22	After the intervention of Senator De Poli, Senior Commissioner of the Senate, I believe that the matter can be considered closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u23	VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. No! No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us then continue with the interventions.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u26	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, I believe that we can look very calmly from the same perspective to what has happened here. We've all seen it. [[Senator Balboni's comments.]] President, I attended the sitting from those stands... Balboni (FdI). Where are you from? Are you coming from the bar with your hands in your pocket?
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u27	Senator Balboni, allow my colleague to make his speech which I do not regard as disrespectful to anyone. I do not think you can afford to take back a senator who is making a speech in this House. Excuse me, maybe I'll do it. Don't worry. Please continue your intervention, Senator Perilli.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u28	President, I'm not offended, and that's okay. Let's stick to the point. We all watched the same scene. I've been on those stands, President: you can't get up. Beyond the question of the tricolor belt, the problem was to stand up. The assistants intervened and colleagues [[. (Comments from the PD Group.]] Look, I say it very serenely: you can make controversy over everything, you can exploit everything, but I believe - and I address Senator Zanda - that you cannot recall the issue of representation that a mayor has of citizenship in the context of an issue that has nothing to do with the dispute or the fact of expelling a person from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u29	They weren't expelled.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u30	Mr Perilli (M5S). Exactly. So the issue of expulsion has been presumptuously exploited in a propaganda way once again by the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The most serious thing is that an argument was used in an instrumental way to challenge the issue and make propaganda. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Mayors and citizenship in this case have nothing to do with it. The mayors got up and, like all the people, they were taken out. Nobody expelled anyone. Mr President, I know that your speech was an answer...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u31	I remind you that mayors are now in the gallery.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u32	Mr Perilli (M5S). They're back in the gallery. What I want to say in my speech, Mr President - and I believe that the opposition can agree on this too - is that we cannot interrupt the work of this House at all times with matters that are being used in art to prevent [[. (Lively protests from the PD Group.]] You've manipulated an issue! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Perilli. Mr Perilli (M5S). President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u33	Senator Endrizzi, you know perfectly well that you cannot film this House, so please follow the Rules of Procedure too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u34	Mr Perilli (M5S). So, Mr President, the Presidency's communications have been there, as have the Quaestors' communication. However, we want to make it clear, as a majority and as Members of Parliament, that different situations cannot be mixed: the authoritativeness of the mayors in the gallery who attend the proceedings of this House is a sacrosanct thing and we respect it. What is different, however, is the respect of all the citizens, whom the mayors represent, of the rules of good order within the House. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] I'm sorry, but you're gonna have to wait for more issues to exploit. This is an obvious fact, which does not honor you. [[Senator Laus's lively comments]] , to the Assembly and to those mayors whom you have disrespected.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u37	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, we can also speak as well as vote, also because in a few weeks there will be votes to be cast in favour of the mayors. In the meantime, I would like to take up the proposal put forward by Senator De Poli, as the senior commissioner, that an innovation could be made, because if mayors come, it is as if soldiers were coming in uniform. The mayor who wears the band has in fact a symbolic aspect, which is the mayor's own. [[Applause from the FI-BP Groups and]] PD ). So we could innovate the practice and at the Presidency Council we could decide to allow it to the mayors, even when they come with delegations to visit the Senate: there is nothing wrong with it. [[Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] We see people with sandals and all kinds of things: it won't be a tricolor band that scares the Senate. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] Having said that, I do not want to cause controversy, but I am pleased to see people who have legitimately had different attitudes in the past become elements of order in this House. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] You become great and then there is the discovery of the rules: sitting, standing. We also saw Grillo: I don't remember if he had sat in the gallery, but no one had started to contest. One more serious thing. You see, Mr President, the mayors are there and they haven't been expelled - we wouldn't miss it - but while they were wearing the band, they took it away. Now, you took off their band, but this isn't serious. But you took away their money for the outskirts, and that's the serious thing you did as a government. [[Extended applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] [[Protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Yeah, they've been removed. Very well...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u38	Senator Gasparri, stay on the order of business. I don't have to teach you anything.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u39	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, let me finish. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let me end this, but stay on the order of business. Gasparri (FI-BP). The difference is that the government itself, unlike us, can issue a measure in favour of the mayors. If it was a mistake, Correct him. We are here to take note of it all together: we give the money to the mayors with the band. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u42	I would remind you that a group representative may speak on the order of business. Senator Zanda has already spoken, but I allow you to speak as your last speech. Mr ASTORRE (PD). But how good you are: thank you, Mr President. Mr President, everything in life I would have expected except to applaud Senator Gasparri on the open stage, but this is what life is like and when it is right we applaud it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] AIROLA (M5S). You made a government together. [[Protests from the PD Group]] Mr ASTORRE (PD). Mr. President, of course to hear Senator Perilli... [[Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u43	Senator Airola, please! Mr ASTORRE (PD). Senator Airola, we're friends and we've been friends for five years. Mr President, I am very sorry to hear Senator Perilli be the man of order, after having been a filmmaker for five years, at other sessions. I take the floor, Mr President. You said that the mayors were removed from the band and were kicked out because they stood up, unable to do so: in this regard you read Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u44	No, let's correct. That's not what I said. I said the mayors were removed the moment they got up. I didn't say they couldn't keep the band. If you refer to Senator Gasparri's comment, talk about what Senator Gasparri said, not what the Presidency said.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u45	Mr President, I would ask you to be innovative, as you usually know. The mayors sitting down - they don't get up - put on the band. I have seen swords, stars and bananas here for five years now. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , I see everyone wearing symbols, but it seems strange that it creates problems the symbol of Italy. As Senator Gasparri said, if a soldier comes, he comes in uniform and maybe in blue as a soldier. What do we do then? Shall we hunt him? Then the mayor can sit down, without being agitated and without acting, because one cannot applaud and no sign can be made, even though everything has been done in this House, Mr President, and one has also jumped on the benches of the government. So - and I say this to you, President - seeing some of your colleagues in the 5 Star Movement now support the points of order in this House makes me smile. But you know what hurt me the most, ma'am? See the colleagues of the League, whom I have always esteemed for their territorial roots, beating hands when it was said to Senator De Poli that mayors should not wear the band. That really hurt. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u46	I come to the conclusion of this debate by reminding Senator Astorre that behind me there is the Italian flag along with the European flag, to remember that we are all Italian citizens and members of the European Union. The request has been made explicitly to Senator De Poli, who has committed himself to bringing this matter to the Presidency Council, which is the body that can take such decisions. I thank the speakers, I thank the mayors for being with us again. I call Senator Campari to explain motion No 45.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u47	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the majority but, above all, of the opposition, which - let us remember - unanimously voted in favour of the rule from which today's motions were born. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] : evidently a flash of lucidity in the dark that has gripped you for a few months! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] I am happy to be able to explain this motion because it should finally put an end to all the instrumental polemics that we have had to read and listen to in the last two months (in fact, legends rather than polemics, but it is the same). The outskirts call provided for the financing of 120 projects of municipalities, the capital of Province and Metropolitan Towns. They were divided into 24 projects for which a first allocation of funds had been made available and 96 projects which should have received a second allocation. On these 96 projects you have created the problem that we have solved: reality is very simple. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] If it were not clear to you yet - but it is clear that you know, otherwise you would not have voted in favour of the rule - after the first 0.5 billion allocated to the initial 24 projects, the Government Gentiloni Silveri tried clumsily to allocate further 1.6 billion later for the remaining 96 projects, forgetting, however, to carry out all the passages planned by law. The Constitutional Court, however, has not distracted itself, unlike you, and has judged the use of the allocated fund to be unconstitutional without prior agreement with the Regions, as required by the law. As if that were not enough, a number of requests were then received from the Presidency of the Council of Ministers to postpone the interventions, since in fact many of the projects were not yet in fact ready. Parliament, then, had to intervene for a double purpose: firstly, to adjust the financing, using the funds this time for a purpose permitted by law and going to unblock the budgetary surpluses for all 8000 Italian municipalities; secondly, to postpone the effectiveness of the agreements concluded by 2020. Basically, we repaired inherited damage and legislated for the good of all territories. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Going further - but here we are going to add a new concept and we do not want the efforts to be a little too intense on the part of the minority - it must be remembered that the conventions have not been blocked, so the administrations could also proceed independently with their own resources or otherwise, for example by lighting up forms of financial anticipation. In any case, following what Prime Minister Conte promised during the meeting mentioned, which took place on 11 September with the National Association of Italian Municipalities (ANCI), with the motion to our examination the Senate commits the Government on two fronts. Firstly, to provide for specific measures in the 2018 budget law to ensure, in line with a more effective allocation of available resources, appropriate solutions to the authorities of the local authorities concerned, which are awarded assistance financed from the outlying fund. Secondly, to provide for the reimbursement of the costs of interventions already incurred by the territorial authorities which have signed the conventions. All with good peace of ANCI and exploitations. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u48	I call Senator Ciriani to explain motion 44.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u49	Mr President, our Group has also tabled a motion which briefly traces the course of the amendment which led unexpectedly to the repeal of the rule on the outskirts. We have remembered that the law n. 208 of 2015 had instituted the extraordinary program of intervention for the urban redevelopment and the safety of the suburbs; we have mentioned the parliamentary passages that have gradually enriched the financial availability with ulterior 800 million euros, until to arrive to a total availability of 1.600 million euros to disposition of the capital municipalities. We have also pointed out that the amendment tabled by the majority has suddenly removed the effectiveness of the conventions which all 96 municipalities still excluded had signed. In this regard, I would like to say to my fellow Members who have spoken earlier, making it ironic that the Senate has voted compactly on an amendment which it did not agree with, which is not a page to be particularly proud of. It was in fact an amendment that was presented in a fury and in such a dark and sibillina way that it led the Senate to a wrong vote. I do not think that this is a page I would like to mention on any occasion either by the majority or by the opposition. The Senate should, in fact, be in a position to vote knowing precisely and transparently what the measures and responsibilities it takes are. Unfortunately, this was not possible, and we complained about this on that occasion and we are doing so today when we are discussing the motions. On the technical details, which were also mentioned in the previous speech, we are open to dialogue with the majority. There has been talk of the possibility by the municipalities of anticipating resources through own funds and agreements with the Deposit and Loan Fund. However, these are hypotheses on which there is no certainty. It is certain, however, that at the moment 96 administrations are in serious danger of being compromised by the implementation of projects and their own economic sustainability. I would also like to point out, in order to keep track of this in the minutes, Mr President, that, according to our in-depth technical analysis, the amendment adopted could also affect compliance with the European Union's reporting deadlines for the resources allocated to the Development and Cohesion Fund, for the 2014-2020 programming period, with the risk that excessive delay could lead to the in-use of European funding itself. These are, however, important, technical aspects. The political theme that we also reiterate here, President, members of the Government, is that it is possible and, indeed, it is more than likely that the subject of the suburbs was used in a somewhat emphatic way by the majority and the center-left to obtain a consensus on the territory. It is possible that some mayor may have been privileged over others in the allocation of contributions and that in this there was the long manus of politics that ruled at that time. However, the feeling that we experienced in the hours immediately following the adoption of that amendment was quite negative - and then we had the confirmation with some imprudent statement, I would say, to use a euphemism, of prominent representatives of the majority - because it seemed that the Government and the majority wanted to say: now we have arrived, we are in charge of the money that had been allocated, we are in charge of those who decide us. If that is the logic, we cannot share it because pacta sunt servanda, the pacts must be respected, with the mayors, with the institutions and above all with the citizens who have no responsibility for this and who are waiting for the realization of their promises. But there is also a pact to be maintained with companies, with private individuals who have believed in those projects and who now risk being mocked with respect to a sharing of principles, methods and achievements that has also led to great effort on their part. I remember that there is the principle of loyal cooperation between the bodies and institutions of the country that should always be kept in mind. I would also remind you that the advantage of maintaining those projects is not for the mayors, who in many cases, however, have changed so that majorities have changed and if there was an electoral understanding, it probably did nothing. Being able to demobilise and put in circulation 1,600 million euros is an advantage for the whole country. I would say more, it is an advantage for the Government that is desperately looking for some form of investment, some investment multiplier that guarantees a growth of the gross domestic product of this country that it has a great need, especially in the light of what is happening on the stock market, in the financial markets and a little 'all over Europe. The theory that you can move this money through the liberation of the administrative surpluses to other municipalities that have not benefited from it, in particular the municipalities not provincial capital, holds up to a certain point because those who made the administrator know that using those leftovers will not be easy, within the calendar year 2018, for a series of complications related to the modification of the budget, the plan of the works and anything else. In addition, it seems to me quite peculiar, and here again I use a euphemism, that the arrangement of the majority provides for the reimbursement of expenses already incurred by the municipalities. But how? Do we pay the same expenses twice? In a public official act of the Senate of the Republic it is said that the municipalities have already spent and instead allow them to carry out the expenses already incurred and to use the resources they have already received, validated by the Court of Auditors, they say: have you spent? Well, we pay you back. We spend twice to do nothing. If that is the novelty, frankly it seems to me a rather singular novelty, President, not if there are precedents but this is a way of reasoning very far from the sensitivity of those who care about the public accounts, the accounts of the State and also the accounts of the Municipalities. In the final analysis, and I come to the conclusion, our Group appeals to the reasonableness of colleagues who know the local realities, who have been administrators and who have been elected to colleges where many mayors are concerned, because they have a little more courage to admit that this was a false step, that probably some motivation was also right and there was the problem of the Constitutional Court that can easily be overcome, as everyone knows. We ask that, if not all, at least the projects that are easily and immediately can be sung be safeguarded because that is money that, I repeat, does not benefit the municipality, the mayor or only the citizens, but the entire national economy. We call for priority to be given to projects which have private co-financing of particular intensity. In short, we ask, in a single word, for the common sense that has often been mentioned to prevail and that, unfortunately, sometimes disappears. We believe that the meaning of the institutions that should govern this provision is neither of the right, nor of the left, nor of the centre, but is simply the possibility of doing the good of this country, so we trust that, after some blunder, the Government and the President Conte, who has made punctual commitments with the mayors, can respect them in the interest not of the Brothers of Italy and the opposition but of the whole country. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u50	I would like to say that the G1 agenda has been presented, which has already been printed and distributed, and I would ask the authors to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u51	Mr President, we have discussed this issue for a long time, both during the examination of the draft law in the Commission and during the discussion of the draft law converting the decree-law into a multi-pronged third reading. For the truth, the discussion had very different accents in the same interpretation of the norms. We would have expected that, already then, when the decree-law was converted, in the third reading (even if we did not want to change the text, given the short time), we would intervene with an agenda that in some way blackened the commitments made by the President of the Count Council in the meeting with the President of the ANCI. But all this did not happen. Today we are debating motions and an agenda which, once again, attempt not only to clarify but also to remind the Government of its responsibilities, declarations and commitments. In all this, frankly, we are not quite clear about the spirit for which we have come to that change, even though there are many suspicions. In fact, even if it had been necessary to intervene after the Constitutional Court's ruling, there would have been ways of allowing that fund and those projects of urban regeneration and redevelopment of the suburbs to have an effective chance of moving forward. The projects, as you know better than I do, are of various kinds and - I would like to say this - also concern municipal administrations with different political orientations. The fund was established by the 2017 Budget Act. I would like to remind you that it was not a law that had seen our vote in favour; that is why we would not have wanted, perhaps because we had voted against, to effectively prevent the use of those funds and, above all, the deployment of that project. Do we really not understand why we wanted to be furious about a sort of hyperburocratic interpretation, but what does it produce in the end (and that is what we highlight on our agenda)? In fact, it produces a dry cut of resources for the local authorities; it is true, then in the majority's motion it is said that the expenses already addressed will be reimbursed, but the point is that the possibility for many municipalities, decided and planned, to intervene to improve some parts of their city will no longer occur. Above all, these resources would be shifted, according to the ratio of that amendment, from one period to another. But in fact there is not even the financial cover to be able to guarantee this shift. Another matter, which we want to stress and which, once again, makes us strongly question good political faith (and suspicion exists), is that the shift decided with the amendment will ultimately produce a result that is certainly not desirable. I wish the government wouldn't want to go on with it either. In fact, the power to use, among other things, the administrative surpluses will produce, in fact, an advantage - alas (alas not in the sense that we would like to harm the municipalities of the North) - of the municipalities of the North and, consequently, an asymmetric redistribution of what, on the other hand, had been a fund rigidly set according to a more equitable logic distribution throughout the national territory. This is because it is an objective fact; 80% of the administrative surpluses concern the municipalities of the Centre-North and, therefore, from this point of view it is clear that an asymmetry will be produced in the redistribution itself. For these reasons we allow ourselves, once again, to emphasize on the agenda the full assumption of those who had been, with concrete facts, the commitments agreed with President Conte, remembering also the fact that, even in the meeting with the Minister for Regional Affairs, the President of the ANCI, just in the face of the fact that he had not taken on those commitments, has declared, among other things, the interruption of institutional relations with the Government, precisely in protest against the blocking of funding of the peripherial ban. We therefore call for immediate action to be taken, in very rapid terms, to implement the spending capacity of local authorities; to allocate all alternative compensatory resources to finance the unblocking of management surpluses; and, above all, to launch any useful initiative to effectively promote a real process of urban regeneration. I would also like to say this to the Secretary-General: I believe that it is important at the moment, given the Update Note, to have resources available for public investment. In fact, these are a multiplier not only of well-being and urban quality, against social disintegration, but are a real multiplier of growth. Therefore, once again we call on the majority to urge the Government to implement its commitments and, above all, to assess the fact that these resources are and would be, at such a complicated time for the budget of our country, absolutely fundamental, because these yes - public investments - especially in the outskirts, would be a real multiplier of well-being and growth.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u52	I declare the debate open. Senator Cirinna is registered to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u53	Mr President, I have little time and I will not repeat what my colleague, Mr Ferrazzi, has already said in his explanation of our motion. Briefly, I will try to illustrate the betrayal perpetrated by the government forces, League and Movimento 5 Stars, to the detriment of their many voters living in the Italian suburbs. The cut in the funding of the ban for the suburbs affects many people, over 326 municipalities and about twenty million citizens (one in three Italians). Following this real betrayal that saw the blocking of existing but not yet funded conventions, the ANCI, previously reassured by President Conte, then promptly, as usual, denied by its Ministers, suspended relations with the Government. The fact that the ANCI has suspended relations with the Government is a serious fact, even if the government representative plays with the mobile phone and doesn't listen to me! This is a very serious matter! [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is a very serious fact, because it is not liquidable with the usual phrases and the usual authoritarian attitudes, as your custom. You cannot say: so many enemies so honor! No, you can't tell her anymore! In fact, you cannot say that because for every citizen of a municipality, big or small, the face of the state is that of its mayor, even if the representative of the government calls instead of listening to me. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The face of the state is that of the mayor, of those mayors who wanted to prove that they were such with their band and that you indecently stopped. The mayor is the one to whom we turn, both for the good things and for the bad ones: a mayor is asked for the birth certificate, the mayor is asked for the death certificate. So you didn't just hurt the mayors. It happens that many of the affected municipalities are led by the center-left (on chance). You have once again damaged the citizens and I will explain briefly how. Mr President, I would like the government representative to listen instead of speaking on the phone and I would like my time to stop until he listens to me. As you did when you were sitting on these benches, President Taverna, who demanded it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u54	I invite the government representative to listen to the speeches, which I believe are of great interest to you.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u55	CIRINNA' (PD). You don't listen either, Mr. President. The government doesn't listen to anyone. The government doesn't know he's done a lot of damage, and you lent yourself to this. You have once again damaged the citizens and I will explain briefly how. The outskirts call didn't work and it didn't just finance public works, urban maintenance and decorum. In this ban there were many works inspired by holistic urbanism, which for many of you is an unknown word: works aimed at the protection of the community, with a vision that takes into account the endless interactions between territory and environmental and social consequences. It is on the social consequences that I would like to dwell on. The city must be designed according to the community. Today the periphery is no longer only the territorial one, made up of distant, less cared for, poorly connected neighborhoods, dormitories in which a varied humanity is relegated and rejected, abandoned, discriminated against. There is also a social periphery, an economic periphery, a cultural periphery; but above all, Mr President, there is a periphery of the soul. Yes, an outskirts of the soul. The periphery of the soul is a condition of the person, it is in his feeling, it is in solitude that produces isolation, sadness, but also insecurity, anger and fragility. I stop again, because the representative of the government again feels he doesn't listen to me. Please, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the government representative to pay attention to the intervention, so we can conclude it. CIRINNA' (PD). My time is running out of attention, and that seems shameful to me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I recognized you another minute out of respect for the time that was wasted. Please, Senator. CIRINNA' (PD). I am concluding on that periphery of the soul that is called loneliness, that fear and that anger that you have ridden in the electoral campaign, promising, promising, promising, as you did in the majority motion, promising that the funds will be put back in the budget: but I wonder when, how and where, since you are fighting over every penny. All the words you used in the electoral campaign are contradicted by the facts: now that many of these suburbs, which are your electoral basin, could be requalified, now that something could finally change, you deny by cutting the funding to those citizens that you can see their neighborhoods requalified, improved their lives, re-evaluate their property. And it is clear why, it is clear to all: you need that the things remain as they are, that fear, anger, fragility are continuously fed and stirred up, for this you want large areas of the country, I think for example of our capital Rome, remain marginal, remain places of degradation and loneliness, places where you hope to collect more votes and consent. But it won't be. Soon the citizens will notice your vain promises, of yours completely change so that nothing changes. Moreover, as you are already seeing, it is happening in Genoa: in a few days, from applause to whistling. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u56	Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u57	Mr President, we have reached a passage which we hope will be decisive. Here is the undersecretary Garavaglia who has had the opportunity to express himself other times. Unfortunately, however, what we read in the majority's motion is clear. Our commitment as an opposition to this issue will not end today, but it will have to continue, because there is no solution on the horizon. It's a kind of armament and games that the government says to the municipalities. The government takes advantage of the ruling of the Court that unlocks the leftovers to say: "use that money, then, if they are missing, we will intervene "compatibly", effectively, appropriately, "perhaps" (without perhaps). [[Applause from the PD Group]] Colleagues, put yourself in the position of the mayors who have left now, but were here, and we had to discuss half an hour to see if they could stay here with the band or not. Put yourself in the shoes of these mayors who no longer have the certainty of having the funds. If you were in their shoes, would you start some works, perhaps to be divided into non-functional excerpts, because obviously the money is not the ones initially planned, but you have to look at those that you have in your pocket, related to the availability of the leftovers? What mayor would begin such an improbable path today, exposing the budget of his institution to such uncertainties? Our country has already scattered many unfinished works in the territory. Think that this iter began in 2015; Undersecretary, we had put the money before the elections and, as an election operation, you had arrived to change them, I could have understood, but we are talking about 2015. They are municipalities that began to do the projects three years ago, starting to reason with their citizens and their communities to retrain the suburbs. [[Applause from the PD Group]] They believed in a ransom, a redevelopment and a better country in which to live and live their children. Now they experience the disappointment and anger of hearing that they will see themselves. It is said to them: "Start with the money you have in your cash register and when you finish it, make yourselves alive, that we see if you can do something": compatibly, you mean. Now it is clear: in the conversion of the thousand-pronged decree, we asked, unnecessarily, to clarify the will of the Government. You see, colleague of the League, the first time we imagined a future, but the second time you have passed here we have tabled so many amendments and agendas that you have not even considered. [[Applause from the PD Group]] If there is no funding in the budget law, that is, in a week's time, we will have the certificate of the operation carried out: money out of the pockets of the municipalities. You will say: "No, we have included among the twelve connected to the budget law the link on the failure of the municipalities". Well; what does that mean? It means that when we face the budget law, you're gonna pull out another motion where you say, No, we don't put them now, but we'll put them in the connected. [[Applause from Senator Malpezzi.]] And when the link arrives, the oxen will have escaped and things will have gone wrong. Here, you will ruin this country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u58	Senator La Pietra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission must absolutely intervene and change course on cutting the funds reserved for the ban on the outskirts. We as Brothers of Italy are at the side of all those mayors who have long been expressing their firm protest and fully sharing their concerns. That is why today we ask the Government, through the motion presented by our leader Ciriani, to work actively to resolve this regrettable situation. There are so many local authorities affected by the so-called outskirts ban, and many of them have in fact already taken all the necessary steps to implement the projects and, in many cases, have already committed significant financial resources. Now this Government, which continues to define itself as change, wants to postpone the distribution of the promised resources to 2020. Colleagues, if this postponement is confirmed, there is a serious risk of jeopardising the implementation of the projects and the economic sustainability for the local administrations involved, belonging, among other things - I want to emphasize - to all political groups. I would therefore urge all colleagues not to exploit and have more respect for the tricolour band of mayors. This shift could also undermine compliance with the time limits for reporting to the European Union of the resources allocated to the Development and Cohesion Fund for the 2014-2020 programming period, with the risk that excessive delay could lead to the inutilisation of European funding itself. In September 2018, following the meeting with the ANCI, the President of the Council of Ministers publicly undertook to work towards an optimal and timely solution, including by fearing the possibility of including, in the first useful decree, a rule allowing the implementation of projects already at an advanced stage. Well, it's time to move from words to deeds. The Government must take all appropriate initiatives, including of normative nature, aimed at realizing the commitments made and ensuring, in essence, the release of the resources destined to the outskirts ban. In addition, it is necessary to take the necessary measures to ensure that projects already launched to improve the quality of urban decoration, such as maintenance and functionalisation of existing public areas and buildings, can be completed, taking into account that these improvements will bring concrete benefits to the national economy. That is why I would like to point out that Minister Tria said this morning that citizenship income is a very useful measure, especially for the Mezzogiorno. I believe that this statement is anything but reassuring, and we believe that, on the contrary, it is much more correct to allocate resources to the fund for the outskirts than to continue with forms of welfare. We of Brothers of Italy, with our motion, want to give voice to all those mayors who strongly need the fund to retrain the different territories and we commit the Government to restore the ban, thus respecting the commitments made in September last. Hundreds of Italian municipalities involved were responsible for more than 1.5 billion euros to be allocated to the redevelopment of the most disadvantaged areas. That 1.5 billion, now blocked, is indispensable in order to allow the mayors to set up the degraded neighborhoods, to permanently rearrange the already forgotten suburbs for years, to secure the many school structures and to implement interventions aimed at improving the quality of life of the residents. Urban and environmental regeneration is very important to allow the territories to re-appropriate their identities, as well as to develop tourist areas. The cities affected by the ban are many and the projects presented are of unimaginable importance. Our cities and mayors will not have the funds to retrain the outskirts, since the government cancelled a commitment made in December with the same mayors. The time has come to make the commitment concrete. We must unravel the skein of the ban on the outskirts, otherwise the outskirts plan will be stopped and suspended for two years, rightly raging the municipalities, but above all the citizens. Brothers of Italy are fighting to ensure that the resources allocated to the suburbs are not dispersed or hijacked elsewhere. That of the funds to the Municipalities is a subject that deserves particular attention and the Government cannot think of dealing with it superficially and at the expense of the suburbs already left in difficulty. The government must guarantee the return of money destined for the outskirts plan, which the majority have snatched to projects that are already cantileverable. We cannot accept that the government suddenly cancels the funds already prepared and allocated for the outskirts. For us "First the Italians" is not only an electoral slogan, but it is a fundamental political principle, it is an absolute value. I say this because the suburbs are inhabited by millions of Italians, who live in situations of degradation. It is precisely in the most abandoned neighborhoods that schooling is very low and employment opportunities are lower than other more developed realities; it is in the outskirts that young people are often victims of organised crime. Generally, when we talk about periphery, we refer to a place without identity, but it is not so and it is precisely through this ban that the suburbs will be able to reappropriate that identity that characterizes them. The real social emergency is represented not only by boats and immigrants, but also and especially by the suburbs, where millions and millions of Italians live and where school escape, unemployment, mental distress, number of drug addicts and phenomena of microcriminality are constantly increasing. For this reason it is important for us as Brothers of Italy to breathe again in the outskirts and requalify them. Streets, squares, gardens and public spaces need structural interventions. The ban is therefore of fundamental importance, because it represents a way to defuse a real social bomb, that afflicts our cities and that involves millions and millions of Italians. Italian cities need a serious investment plan for their redevelopment, which represents a great social investment. "First the Italians" for us as Brothers of Italy is a real concept, to which we want to give concreteness. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u60	He's enlisted to speak Senator Missa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u61	Mr President, the majority and the government force us to have a surreal debate not only because we have seen in this House the obligation for the mayors to remove the tricolour band. Having been mayor, I was deeply impressed by such an act that, in my opinion, we must resolve immediately, because parading the tricolour band to the mayors means creating a conflict between the territory and the State. [[Applause from the PD Group]] But this debate is also surreal because I believe that it opens a multitude of contradictions, first of all for the Government and therefore for the country. We are discussing the Update Note to the DEF, within a fully-oriented public finance framework generating instability and mistrust, except for one point, in my opinion, important, which was investment support. We are talking, for 2019, about the objective of achieving 3% of investment in GDP, but in reality we are here to block investments already prepared, already ready for the contracting stations, able to immediately generate a redevelopment of our suburbs, simply because we have taken away a space of intervention from the local communities, exchanging it for support of the leftovers, which are resources in many cases bound and not ready to generate immediate investments. It is a huge contradiction, especially if we put it together with the actions that the Government has not determined in the field of investment. The breakdown of investments already foreseen by the previous government has not been defined: 38 billion still pending redistribution between the regions and the local government system. Moreover, they constantly announce blocks of works in progress and exchange works in progress for works already realized. I mean, if the structural measure for this country's growth was investment, it's doing the exact opposite here. Investments are blocked for an action aimed at the past, persevere in an opposition to the past, but the Italian Government is asked to have a vision for the future and this vision for the future is absent because this action is full of contradictions. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] This is the most important issue from which we must start. The second element is that it exposes you to a multitude of conflicts, including legal ones, with the local authorities, because there are municipalities that have signed conventions and have already started projects. Given that writing in a majority resolution that commits the Government to possibly finance the ongoing project expenses means increasing non-productive public expenditure, not relaunching investments, why subject you to a multitude of conflicts that undermine the loyal collaboration between municipalities and state, which is indispensable (because the contracting stations are in the territories) for the growth of the country? [[Applause from the PD Group.]] We could have, also in order to enhance the quality of the debate in this House, signed together a motion in which the Government committed itself to restoring the financial spaces, because we must not forget that we have not taken away the resources, but the financial spaces to make investments have been reset. We could have written it and signed it together, we tried it in every Commission and in every area, even in the thousand-pronged debate. This was the fundamental question, even with a gradual implementation of the projects in relation to the times of planning of the municipalities. In essence, we wanted to write a confused page, another time not noble, in conflict with territorial systems, instead of writing a beautiful and positive page for the future of this country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u62	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u63	Mr President, I am speaking with some knowledge of the case, having, in my previous commitment as local administrator, also performed the function of deputy mayor of the Metropolitan City of Milan and coordinated the project of the ban on the outskirts of the Milan metropolitan territory. That territory has seen its own ban recognized in the first tranche, it has classified in the first 24 places of the ranking and therefore it has been seen recognized the resources. I was able to see what the mayors and their communities have done and how they have worked to solve some of the many problems that grip our territories, in the knowledge that not everyone can be solved, but the hand that the State tended to the local communities, the mayors and the territories was a very important occasion. We caught it and luckily - or with skill - we were able to benefit from this position in the first 24 places to start the route. Today, looking at those who were in the other 96 positions and who, on the one hand, were benefited anyway by the State, who decided to put their hands on the portfolio and go to recover the resources to finance all 120 projects in the ranking, I understand the position of the mayors who are here today to express to some extent a protest, because they are defrauded twice: on the one hand of the resources that have been made available and on the other of a civil pact with the State, having signed a convention together. Mr President, this is a serious matter: pacta sunt servanda is one of the basic rules of Roman law and it bases our own right, our own legal civilization. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] In this way, contracts which are signed between parts of the State cannot be torn apart. This majority - I quote the motion - wants to commit the Government to provide for specific measures in the draft budget law 2019 aimed at ensuring, in accordance with a more effective allocation of resources available, suitable solutions to the requests of the local authorities concerned - President, I also ask the Government to pay attention, together with the majority that has written this motion, among the others that are currently under discussion - to grant interventions financed from the periphery fund. It is clear that there is no way more effective and compatible than that which restores what had already been foreseen by the previous Government. The President of the Count Council on this point had been clear with the delegation of the ANCI met last September, recognizing the value and importance of the measure and ensuring an intervention in the first useful legislative act. Too bad words aren't followed. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Therefore, it is not surprising the Government of the attitude of the ANCI, which has at heart only the interest of the communities administered by the hundreds of mayors who every day operate in our Municipalities with fatigue on several fronts. The serious, real and concrete risk is that the measure is completely emptied, creating serious damage to the administrators who had put in place a series of works. The solution to get out of this impasse is very simple. Do we want, as we say, to ensure an effective allocation of resources? Secure the ban on the outskirts; secure the works studied and designed by the municipal administrations; follow the institutional commitments made by the government with the municipalities and, together, reason on what is the best way to guarantee the financing and the realization of the works as soon as possible. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I conclude, Mr President, by saying that Parliament has an obligation to respond and to work to ensure that this important work is carried out and that this obligation, to which Parliament must respond, is fulfilled by voting today on the motions which call on the Government to refinance projects that have been deprived of the resources already available. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u64	Senator Berutti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u65	Mr President, it is very bad for those who have worn the band to see mayors who, in a certain sense, have to show in this House that they are deprived of something that was somehow promised to them and had been clearly granted. I believe that this leads to a reflection on the law or at least on the principle of subsidiarity. The outskirts, as has been said by many, are the delicate and nerve points of city systems and, of course, investments are also of fundamental importance in the recognition of the dignity of the citizens who live in them. It is true that we in Forza Italia voted for amendment 13.2 linked to the thousand-pronged decree, but we did so because at that time the Government, during the examination in the Commission, committed itself to ensuring adequate resources in the passage of the measure to the House at second reading. The government has ignored this commitment. The President-in-Office of the Council himself stated that a direct commitment would be made to support this type of investment immediately or in any event by means of a subsequent measure, and in the end, to date, nothing has come to the point that, as has been said, the ANCI has suspended its relations with the Government. I believe that this should make us think and think, because in this House many mayors and administrators have done so. In my humble opinion, it is not intelligent to shift resources simply because in the game of the three cards, for a trial linked to two judgments of the Constitutional Court, resources have been removed from the peripherial decree and put substantially on the liberalization of the administrative surpluses. In the light of this it is to be thought that the mayors and therefore the administrations have been damaged twice. Technically the mayors of all Italy could have and had the liberalization of the surplus, but on the other hand these administrations probably had other planning from the point of view of investments, because you know that when it compresses too much, when there is the possibility of spending, many projects remain in the drawer. This shows even more that this action has been carried out in a crafty manner. I believe that the government must have a sense of responsibility and, above all, must reflect deeply. Another consideration, based on numbers: for the 96 projects, there was talk of resources of EUR 1,600 million. The sum of what has been expected over the four years, from 2018 to 2021, I find to be equal to 1,030 million euros. Therefore, I would ask you to explain to me where some 600 million euros have disappeared: disappeared, of course, in the sense of the budgetary mechanism. It would be important to understand that. Therefore, in the light of all this, I would like to remind you that, as has been said, many municipalities over 24 had already activated with conventions and executive projects, a considerable percentage, equal to 33%, had already gone in competition and 9% had already sung some works. So there are situations that are clearly on the move, but that above all have created enthusiasm and a strong expectation on the territory. At the moment when I heard that the motion of the League Group speaks of reimbursement of expenses, I thought that somehow, at this point, the situation has already been defined, because if we repay the municipalities that have had expenses, we can think that the issue and the procedure are closed and that the previous situations are healed and no longer invest in the future. This is a further reflection that needs to be done. Therefore, in the light of all this, we ask that there be a substantial commitment in the next budget law, that equals the commitment, that it was 1,600 million euros for the 96 projects and that, above all, this happens very quickly, with a commitment from the Government. In fact, I repeat that in Italy there are 96 administrations that are waiting to know how to move. I repeat: those who made the administrator know that, from an administrative point of view, you cannot hesitate, there are commitments and there are a whole series of administrative passages that cannot support the palace games and the budget games of the national government. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u66	Senator Astorre is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u67	Mr President, the motion tabled by the Group of the Party of European Socialists is intended to bring back to the centre of the public and parliamentary debate a very important issue - and it has done so - which concerns the redevelopment of the peripheries and the most degraded areas of our municipalities. This is an issue on which in this House, in the past Legislative Decree, we were invited to reflect Renzo Piano, one of the greatest architects in the world, as well as a senator for life, when he invited us legislators to take measures to "refine" our territory and our suburbs, so that those places could return to express social and community life. During our Governments, Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri, we felt the importance and the need to give answers to this issue and over the years more than 2 billion euros were allocated. The cities and municipalities concerned have been active, including by committing their own financial resources, in order to present the projects necessary to retrain degraded areas, to secure school buildings, to improve urban decorum. 120 projects were presented and 24 first citizens signed with the Government Gentiloni Silveri, in December 2017, the relevant conventions for the realization of projects for the redevelopment of our suburbs. I would like to mention some of them (of the 96 projects financed) of extraordinary importance which relate to territories which are closer to me. I would once again like to address my colleagues in the League, Mr President, who are proud to be present on the ground. I want to tell you, colleagues, that we are talking about works that will not be realized or that will be delayed, and we hope that they will be put in place: the realization of the Auditorium of the sea in Fiumicino; the realization of a bike path in Pomezia (President Taverna!); the realization of a project of urban redevelopment in Monterotondo; the realization of a cultural pole at the higher school campus in Guidonia Montecelio (eh, President, Guidonia and Pomezia!); the realization of an intervention of connection of some urban areas to Tivoli; an intervention of urban decoration, with the realization of pavements to Fonte Nuova; an intervention of urban redevelopment and safety of the peripheral areas to Anguillara Sabazia. You see, ladies and gentlemen, I am talking about concrete measures: behind the funding, behind the words there are concrete works to be carried out for the citizens. In addition to the above-mentioned interventions, all those provided for by the institutions are added. With regard to definancing - I would like it to remain in the minutes - we voted against, both in the House and at the third reading in the Senate; you gave us the amendment explaining that it was something else: both in the Chamber at second reading and in the Senate at third reading we voted against. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] I believe that the projects in question are important for the territory, for urban decorum, for sustainable mobility, and that is precisely why - I conclude, President - I think it was a wretched choice to have postponed or definanced them. It would be an important signal of concrete proximity to the territories. These are the interventions aimed at improving the lives of our communities, not the direct Facebook, of which you are undoubtedly the best. Before, there were many mayors, even of small municipalities. Mr President, ask the Government: what happened to the EUR 100 million for the small municipalities allocated by the Realacci law? What happened to funding that should have improved quality of life even in small municipalities? We are here to fight for dignity and voice to be given to the outskirts and small municipalities. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u68	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u69	Mr President, I am in favour of motion No 45, first signed by Senators Romeo and Patuanelli. The opinion was opposed to the other motions tabled and the G1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u70	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the motions and the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u73	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, last week, during the meeting with the ANCI, undersecretary Giorgetti renewed the willingness of the Government to resolve the problem, confirming what President Conte had previously announced. For the city of Bolzano alone we talk of 18 million euros for the redevelopment of the area of Via Alto Adige. A very important project, like all those that have been funded, because they have the merit of producing a direct and immediate benefit on the quality of life of our cities. 18.25 p.m. (Unterberger follow-up). We are also talking about an issue that has seen mayors of all political colors together. That is why it could already be filed during the examination of the Decree-Law House extending time limits, exceeding the amendment that was mistakenly adopted in this House. However, the government's position is important, which, at least in its intentions, is proving to have understood the importance of the matter. These resources must return to the availability of the municipalities, just as it is important for monitoring the progress of the individual interventions, as requested by the last point of the motion. This is a point on which we strongly agree, also because of the importance of the projects financed. And then, if it really is an issue that goes beyond the political color and that concerns the general interest of cities and communities, it is right that the Senate commits the Government to a quick and positive resolution of the problem. For all these reasons, our Group will vote in favour of the first-signed motion by Mr Marcucci. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u76	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, the Government's opinion on the motions and agenda unfortunately confirms, once again, the fact that it has been decided to adopt an attitude that we can define not only as a closure but, at this point, as an absolutely ideological one. It may happen that errors may occur during the adoption of a measure, but the President-in-Office of the Council, of whom perhaps you do not take the opinion very seriously, had made an official commitment to the ANCI. I would remind you that the issue and the blockage of the outskirts ban concerns all municipalities, those administered by the center-right, those administered by the Movimento 5 Stars, those administered by the center-left and those administered by civic lists. For this reason, there has been a very strong request from the ANCI to unlock the situation or to give signals about it. Commitments had therefore been made, but once again, on the motions and agendas which call for commitments or at any rate indicate the need to find a solution, there is an opinion against this. Instead, it was necessary, as was perhaps possible or at least desirable, since at other times there was a united motion from the Senate to find a way out of the situation and to give perspectives. If the government did not want to agree with a series of commitments or premises of the motions, it could give a different indication, suitable to move forward. Apart from the few projects that are likely to go ahead, this would have made it possible to find a solution for all the other commitments and conventions of the municipalities. Instead, on September 25, the Government communicated to the various municipalities the blockade of the 1,600 million, in violation, long after the meeting, of the commitments made by President Conte and giving an absolutely different follow-up. I repeat that we cannot understand, also because in this way the damage is double, because I would like to understand how it is possible to recover with the administrative surplus, the value and the impact of the projects. We can discuss those who like them or do not like them, but they were undoubtedly necessary resources for cities. Then someone can object, as I have heard. There have been different opinions and I personally, perhaps, have liked some projects and others have not, but undoubtedly the value of a series of public investments, finally, in the peripheral areas of our cities is crucial. I would like to remind you that in the last parliamentary term there was a Commission in the House right on the outskirts, which has drawn a line of action on what is fundamental for a country. You, Undersecretary, know how important I am today to intervene in cities and outskirts of cities. This intervention has an enormous social value. You have presented the so-called security decree: but what do you think? That security in the cities is done only and only through the rejection of immigrants? City security is being pursued by making it possible to increase the quality of life by providing a range of services, ensuring that those citizens do not feel like C-class citizens. That was the profound value. You wanted to change the plans? Great. But certainly doing this operation is wrong. I would add, then, that we are discussing the Update Note to the DEF and it was absolutely essential to increase public investment; I repeat: it is an important factor for the growth of the country, so it certainly has a social impact but also from the point of view of economic value in a situation of scarcity of resources, also regarding the public investments that you indicated in the Update Note. You know better than me how much public investment is a multiplier for four than current spending! That's a fundamental thing. The income of citizenship is not enough to think of improving the quality of life in the most peripheral areas of the cities, where there is social distress. This was the profound value and I believe that it was absolutely necessary to meet, to make a proposal, to be able to reach also a sharing and a joint motion, instead there is the total closure from this point of view. At this point we can only take note that it is only an ideological fact. I did not vote in favour of the budget law in which the suburb fund was incorporated, but do you think that since I did not vote in favour of that law, the next year I would cancel everything? This is an absurd way of conceiving administration and good governance. [[Applause from the PD Group]] There is a need for continuity, work cannot be linked to contrapositions and revenge. Didn't you like some projects? We could intervene, we could open a dialogue with the municipal administrations. But cancellation is a truly ideological and vindictive intervention. This does not mean good governance: it is not an act of good governance to subtract resources from the municipal administrations. It is you who have come to explain to us - and I agree - how much the municipalities, in all these years, have had to tighten the belt, have had to make and suffer cuts that have all ended up on welfare and services. Well, that, after all, was also a way to compensate them. And just you, who came to say that the time of the cuts in the municipalities was over, the first thing you do is cut funds, among other things already committed, betraying expectations, betraying pacts, betraying conventions. All this, it is a truly incredible way to stand up to your own Municipalities. If you call this the Government of change, I can only wish all Italians the best, because change risks being truly deleterious. [[Applause from Senator Zanda.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u79	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the history of the funds for the suburbs has a very high paradox; I, as a newly elected senator, a poor country senator, am amazed at all these paradoxes that I am seeing, starting with the fact that Pharaoh applauds Gasparri: it is frankly funny, paradoxical, creative. And then, this vote of the Senate; colleagues, we have all stumbled into this vote, I would not stay much longer, as our Parent Company said, to tread my hand on the fact that the Senate has consciously voted on the contents of that amendment that day; I would not go any further on this occasion, I would stop at the simple need to resolve, to remedy, to put a patch on it, to restore in some way the certainty towards the citizen, the municipalities and the administrations. When citizens sign a conventional relationship with the State, the State must meet them properly, consciously and seriously, i.e. by keeping its commitments. After that, what happened with that amendment is useless that we are telling it. This also has something paradoxical. I understand the need for the majority of my colleagues to defend the measure, but I do not understand, frankly, the rigidity of the Government, which intervenes in the Chamber and, on motions that are very similar or slightly differ (for example, I do not hesitate to say that our motion could be partly absorbed by the majority), expresses a contrary opinion, as on all other motions, on a subject such as this, which suggests more caution because, in fact, it is the Government that changes the cards on the table to the municipalities and citizens, it is not the Municipalities and no one else. Another rather paradoxical aspect is to see colleagues in the PD who, wanting to give lessons, always with their finger raised. Frankly, I can understand little, colleagues of the majority, because if we had to correct something of the many misdeeds done by these gentlemen, we didn't have to start from the outskirts, there was so much more material to go fishing in, but really much. Together with our Leader, we were wondering, in the course of the debate, what our attitude to the majority motion might have been. In our opinion, apart from some lexical details, such as that "compatibly with a more effective allocation of resources available" (what can I say? This "compatibly" opens a window into which you can put a train, a TIR), is a motion in which we could have recognized ourselves. However, ladies and gentlemen, let us consider the attitude of the Government, the debate that we have been able to follow in this House and, above all, the fact that it is not clear what will happen to these resources. Colleagues, I'm from Umbria. This measure on Umbria affects 30 million euros: it is not a euro, it is not abrupt. The administrations have planned, they have spent money, they have anticipated. We can't erase them in no time. Umbria is a region where 30 million make a difference. Umbria is a region where there is a problem of reconstruction after serious earthquake. We have to somehow point out that the state exists and that when you meet the state you are sure you don't care. With regard to all this, it is clear that the attitude of Brothers of Italy can only be of censure to the majority motion. We shall, of course, vote in favour of the motion that we have tabled and tabled. We will vote against the Democratic Party's motion because, however, it is instrumental and full of ideological content and because it goes to the point only after having made ten thousand turns of political rhetoric. And we will abstain on the motion of the colleagues of Forza Italia, in which we reflect for the most part. Colleagues, I'm worried. I close this intervention by manifesting this feeling: I am concerned, because we cannot fail to record this misconceived compactness, because it is not a problem to say that a passage must be corrected, it is not so serious. But this ostentatious compactness, I don't know at the end where it will take us. We shall see that now, in the budget law: in the majority motion it is written that we will find these resources in the budget law. But I would like to ask all of you, my colleagues in the majority: are you sure that we will find these resources? Are we really sure that we will find these resources in the budget measure coming in a month's time? I am not at all sure about this and, in relation to this, forgive me, colleagues, but I show you all my real and heartfelt concern. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u82	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, as my fellow Members did in the debate, I feel the need to open my explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists by stigmatizing what has happened on the stands of this House: I think that the decision to let the mayors out because they had stood up to wear the tricolor band was a serious mistake! [[Applause from the PD Group]] In fact, the tricolor band, which I had the honour of wearing for nine years, as mayor, is one of the highest signs of respect and belonging to the institutions and can never be considered a reason of disorder and disturbance of the life of the institutions. [[Applause from the PD Group]] So, put shelter in some way. The Presidency Council will meet and the Rules of Procedure will be re-read. In our view, there is nothing in the Rules of Procedure of the Senate that justifies the interpretation that President Taverna wanted to give. Coming to the Senate today I had a hope: that the debate would show signs of awareness and repentance by the majority compared to what happened on the outskirts ban. In fact, what you have done - I am addressing my colleagues in the majority - is a big problem! A big trouble that damages, as Senator Cirinna, 326 Municipalities, where we live 20 million of our fellow citizens. For 33% of the cases of blocked works, these are interventions for which the invitation to tender has already begun; in 9% of the cases, even, we have construction sites started. How can such damage be done? Receive from all sides the complaint that it is serious damage and do nothing to remedy this damage? [[Applause from the PD Group]] That is the point of the debate that is ending today. And unfortunately I did not hear anything like credible reassurance in the only intervention of the majority that was there tonight. I heard jokes, ironic and laughing words, that they wanted to be convincing and were just embarrassing, depressing and, in some cases, shameful. What, then, is serious about the decision to snatch so many municipalities of funds, for over a billion euros? Firstly, there is the fact that in a parliamentary democracy the word of the State must be sacred: the State never takes the word back, by definition. Majorities change and can change; Governments change and can change; however, in the discontinuity of Governments there must be the continuity of the State. The reason for being a government can never be to destroy what the previous government did! [[Applause from the PD Group]] You have violated an important rule in a democracy, you have lost the credibility of the central government: the mayors and citizens of the municipalities concerned now have an argument to no longer trust your word and in my opinion this means that they have inflicted a wound in the relationship between the different levels of our institutions. It's a very serious mistake. The second problem concerns investment policy. The most unheard and overlooked of the Ministers of your Government, Minister Tria, tells us almost every day that it is essential for Italy to increase investment. We believe in it, but the choices made on the outskirts ban go exactly in the opposite direction: investments that could have started in the near future are being called into question, in the opposite direction to what the government states in its programming documents. I would also like to hear the opinion of Minister Toninelli, who should be the Minister for Investment, but he is often devoted either to blocking investment or to the imagination of investments that are not yet completed: he sees finished works that do not yet exist. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We're at a sort of "immagine, you can," but we're not in a TV commercial, we're not in a joke: we're in one of the most delicate periods of our recent life. I believe that the Democratic Party, with motion 41 (text 2), has made a request that you must take into consideration, that of following up the agreement that was made with the ANCI on September 11, to keep that commitment, to restore the funds that have been snatched, to do your duty, that is to make the mayors of this country believe that the State can be trusted. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We say this with our motion, we will continue our mobilization in the country and we hope that it will change the way soon, because what you have taken is against development, against work, against municipalities, against respect between institutions. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u85	BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, when a mayor and his administrators hear that the government has finally allocated funds to the suburbs through a ban, they are certainly happy. It is normal for every administrator to be happy: finally someone who thinks about the outskirts, the discomfort of the degraded areas, the neighborhoods without lighting, the broken sewers, the roads to be redone, the sidewalks with the architectural barriers, all those emergency interventions that, for one reason or another, have never been able to do right there, in those suburbs that are all too often forgotten. This, in fact, is the idea that you have of a periphery: a suburb always neglected and in need of interventions, to give it back life and decorum. In these days we have seen strange articles in the newspapers and since we are particularly curious we went to see the projects of the 96 municipalities that participated in the ban. I do not go into the matter whether they are feasible or not (it is not our job to judge them, for that there are technicians), but I believe that a reflection on how citizens' money is spent is at least necessary. I must say that we have found many serious projects worthy of all the commitment and attention of the Government to continue their implementation and their feasibility. However, Mr President, since some senators insist on erecting a paladin of the outskirts, let me tell them, hoping to be denied, what will actually go in some cases to finance the outskirts ban, in addition to the serious projects I was talking about earlier. I only mention a few, because if I had to do it with everyone I read, I wouldn't have enough minutes. Among the famous 96 municipalities, which are eagerly waiting for 1.5 billion from the state, I found funding from North to South, in addition to the now famous Ravenna boat, of this type: a beautiful picnic park in Caltanissetta, the creation of an application Beacon to make the tourist guide in Syracuse, a master conference project in Carbonia, a project Card and App lands and lakes in Verbania, a media library of the Dolomites in Belluno, a cineteca and a corridor cycle-eco-ortivo in Bologna, a glorious emotional museum titled "From prehistory to the future." [[Comments from the PD Group]] Mr Laus (PD). What are you talking about? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. One second: I think he's saying what he thinks, it's not up to you to censor him, I think. He's not offending anyone. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] No need for applause. BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). You deny me, the truth can hurt, but it's the truth. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Mr Laus (PD). But read them all! BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). They are all noble and deserving of attention, for charity, however, it was called a ban on the outskirts. If you like, I can continue with the roundabouts of Foggia and Catanzaro, the baseball field of Cefalù, the skate park of Biella, the highly sought after votive chapels of Caltanissetta, the intoxicating flowerbeds of Frosinone and the biodiversity of Vibo Valentia. [[Comments from the PD Group]] RIPAMONTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Listen once! Once! [[Senator Malpezzi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u86	Senator, he's got no microphone. You can't hear it. I would ask you to remain in your own role: there is the speaker speaking and, in this case, the others listen. I also say this to Mr Laus, who I did not call back, but I invite him to desist.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u87	BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). Not to mention, Mr President, feasibility studies: the most imaginative ones are that of Pisa on the multilingualism of urban spaces and that of Matera on the project financing of the stadium. Feasibility studies worthy of note, which abound almost more than projects: in Ancona we do the specialized study for the implementation of urban resilience, but they are not less to Aosta, Nuoro and Potenza, besides Matera and Pisa, which I mentioned before. More than ban on the outskirts, it could be called a ban on feasibility studies. After all, a feasibility study is not denied to anyone, whether they are offended by their consulting friends! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Mr President, it is normal that we cannot and must not make the whole grass a bundle, but I have a great esteem for the small municipalities and for those mayors who know how to roll up their sleeves, the same mayors who, for the most part, the holes on their streets if they go to close them alone, perhaps paying also the bag of asphalt of their pocket, those who know what it means degraded periphery and isolated fraction, mayors who, when they make a ban, do it seriously and respect its rules and addresses. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] My respect goes to all those mayors, while I hope that others today, instead, will make a serious reflection. With this closing reflection I declare the vote in favour of the Lega-Salvini Group Premier - Sardinian Action Party to the motion tabled by the majority groups. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u90	CAUSIN (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, in Italy at least 15 million people live in degraded areas, which are located in peripheral and central areas. Many of these people also live in small provincial capitals. The Italian cities have changed profoundly over the last twenty years - many of us and you know it, because they have done the local administrators - and people and their living conditions have deteriorated profoundly. The ageing of the population, the growing presence of foreigners and the economic crisis, which since 2007 has greatly eroded the well-being of families and people and also the ability to intervene in public finance, are the main factors that have contributed to worsening the living conditions of our cities. In the work I have done as past president of the Commission of Inquiry into the suburbs, I can say that we have come to a shared conclusion: the degradation of our cities is not the result of chance, but is the result, in particular, of public and private property and infrastructure, of wrong choices or, worse still, of choices that have not been made. If you don't believe it, I invite you - as some colleagues did and as I did - to visit Scampia, the Zen, the Corviale, the dams of Genoa, the San Paolo di Bari and many other neighborhoods, also the caruggi of Genoa, for example, and also other central areas of the cities. These places have been social experiments: in them they have been concentrated of economic and social fragility and today they are often areas where clandestineness hatches, they are areas of abusive occupation, of illegal economy and of illegal economy. With the exception of Milan, which still grows demographically and grows from the point of view of economic development, our cities decrease demographically and change their faces. In the last twenty-five years around 6 million immigrants have arrived in Italy: there are 6 million foreigners and there is an estimated presence by Caritas of 700,000 irregulars, which are invisible by Italian law, but which are very visible for organized crime and are labour for the illegal economy and the illegal economy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The elderly are therefore living in a situation of loneliness and poverty, in areas of the city where the buildings are in deep decay, where transport services, health care and social assistance are much more lacking than in the central areas of the cities or in the small provincial capitals. Social co-existence has become difficult, and that is why anger is growing in our country. Minimarkets, phone centers, money transfers and ethnic shops have gradually replaced neighborhood shops, social places, community places and some places in our cities have been the subject of economic and social disinvestment by public administrations. The experience that citizens live in our suburbs is very simple: the lack of decorum of public and private heritage generates degradation and brings illegality. Traditional sociality has thus left room for economic phenomena that we know: drug dealing, prostitution, abusive trade, clandestine laboratories, gambling. Not to mention the abusive occupation of public buildings and housing, which is a widespread phenomenon in the outskirts of the big cities: in Palermo there is 100 percent of abusive employment and those who squash a house steal it from those who actually need it and this is an immoral thing. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] It is an immoral thing, that the individual citizen, a Senator of the Republic or a relative of a Senator of the Republic do so, and it represents an injustice to those who actually need it. Not to mention the forgotten neighborhoods. Do we want to talk about Rome, about a city administered by the Movimento 5 Stars, by the mayor Rays, where there are settlements of Roma camps close to peripheral areas marked by strong criticalities? It is known to the local administration of Rome, because we have reported it, that there is a continuous traffic for the illicit disposal of waste, with continuous toxic fires, every night. These are the outskirts of Italian cities. Then there is youth unemployment, which you of the majority, lying, knowing to lie, propose to cure with the income of citizenship: this is not the way to cure unemployment in Italy, so it does not cure youth unemployment, especially in the South, in the artificial neighborhoods and outskirts that were created in the sixties and seventies and that are a land of culture and recruitment of organized crime. It is dangerous to give there the income of citizenship. [[Applause from Senator Masini.]] It is for this reason that, although Forza Italia, in the past legislature, was in opposition, we welcomed the decision to allocate funds for the redevelopment of some degraded areas of Italian cities. I want to say that in the program of Government shared with the North League, the redevelopment of the suburbs had to be a priority and instead, incredibly, in the decree thousandprorogates the yellow-green majority has decided to fail to the commitments made towards the cities, a decision that has deferred of three years the effectiveness of the conventions concluded, that not only harms the relationship of sacrosanct and loyal collaboration between the agencies and the State, but it offends and disappoints above all the expectations of more than 15 million people who expect politics to apologize and give a response to the problem of the degradation of the suburbs of our cities. I do not want to dwell on the numbers and damage caused by the failure to implement the ban, which my colleagues have already explained well, but I have an obligation to denounce an unserious and cowardly majority on this issue. Unserious because the pacts are respected, the commitments between the state and the local authorities must be respected, without whether or not. Unserious because in politics it is worth the acts and not the chatter. I am aware that in a time when politics is done with social media, slogans, selfies, filming with mobile phones, acts are an obsolete thing, but I think and I want to think that it is still possible to believe that in politics, through laws, acts and commitments to be respected, we give answers to citizens. We don't settle. As Professor Conte, President-in-Office of the Council, has said, perhaps something will be done in the first useful decree. This is not enough, we need an act, we need to say how much, we have to say what decree, we have to say if in the law of stability, we have to say where the act is done and how it is done. I said it was a cowardly choice because you didn't even have the courage to say clearly and transparently that you don't give a damn about the outskirts, the people living in the outskirts and their conditions. You just realized that there was a lot of investment money on that budget post and you decided to plunder that budget post to do something else. It is a legitimate political choice, but you must declare it, do not ignore it. It is a choice that leads to the creation of public debt and public expenditure, in the face of those who work, of those who pay taxes and above all - this is the immoral thing - to the face of those who are ill. The other serious fact, since we talked about mayors before, is that your mayors have silenced them on this issue and in these days their embarrassed silence has shown that they are perhaps more than the silly servants of a majority or a party than the servants of the citizens all who elected them, because a mayor is mayor also of those who did not vote for it and must do the interests of the community. Forza Italia strongly believes that this is not only a central theme of the legislature, but a real new social issue that must be addressed seriously. Forza Italia also believes that small cities, but especially large ones, are the driving force behind the economic development of our country and that there is a direct responsibility for politics in relation to the quality of life of citizens. That is why we, in our motion, call for the immediate reinstatement of the budget in the budget law in order to respond to the current projects, and for this reason we shall be voting in favour of the motion bearing the signature, for Forza Italia, of Senator Mallegni. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u93	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to use these few minutes of the explanation of vote to remind you, for example, that there was a profile of unconstitutionality that the Court rightly recalled in relation to the lack of involvement of local authorities, in particular the regions, on the issue of projects which, in fact, provided for the intervention of local authorities. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I do not want to remind you that we have not snatched or removed resources, but that we have suspended the conventions for a year, ensuring that they can continue the first 24 projects, which are clearly those that were evaluated as most in line with the ban and most appreciated for their interventions. We have therefore secured compensation for the expenses incurred and we have simply moved some interventions. On the other hand, I do not want to mention the muggings that there have been - the real ones - on local authorities, which for years have had to pay for the choices of the central governments that have sent back to the mayors the adoption of dramatic measures against the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I do not want to remind you that this House, for example, at its first sitting on the subject during the debate on the Multipronge Decree, voted unanimously: either you did not understand that amendment or you agreed at that time. Instead, I want to use - allow me this term - some passages of Senator Causin's intervention, which preceded me, which has focused many topics on the subject of the suburbs. I would also like to mention an event in which we participated together in the electoral campaign, which said that the extension of the ban on the outskirts to too many outskirts was probably wrong, while the focus was on those in greatest emergency. Today we see something very evident: there is a return to the big cities and a return, even demographic, to the metropolitan areas, with an abandonment of many suburbs of many centers. I believe, however, that the path that must lead us to recover those outskirts is not a policy of bans. I am convinced that a serious reflection must be made on the reform of the urban law of this country, which is seventy years old and which needs to overcome the concept of zoning, expansion zones, areas of completion, industrial and craft areas. We must reason to retrain that part of degraded suburbs with a replacement of our real estate, with a redevelopment of the centers, so as to allow people to move towards the centers, where cities have demographic declines that obviously affect the abandonment of the suburbs. I believe that this is the reasoning that this House and Parliament must make, reflecting on long-range planning and planning, starting from the necessary reform of the urban law, as well as from a law on urban planning projects that this country has never had and which, instead, should have. We believe, moreover, in the commitment of the President-in-Office of the Council, that we reaffirm with our motion, first signed by my colleague Romeo, but supported by the whole majority. We need to assess what the 96 projects that are now suspended really are; we need to make an assessment of what the projects that could actually compete today and be carried out with progress in 2019. I think then that the reasoning that this Government has made, to free up resources that probably would not have been spent anyway in 2019 in favor of those who managed their municipalities well and has a surplus budget, is a sensible operation. This operation was supported by the majority, just as today it has the support of the majority a motion calling for a timely evaluation of those 96 projects. I believe that a reflection on possible refinancing in the budget law is among the many sensible actions that this Government has done in a few months. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u94	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. Following the vote on motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the G1 agenda will be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 41 (text 2), tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 43 tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 44 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 45, tabled by Senators Romeo, Patuanelli and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u95	The Conference of Leaders remodelled the current calendar in the light of the progress of the Update Note to the Economic and Finance Document and the remission to the head office of the draft law on the development of the smaller islands and the vote of political-mafia exchange. Tomorrow will be devoted to the work of the Commissions, with particular regard to the Budget Commission. The discussion of the Update Note for the 2018 Economy and Finance Document and the Annexed Report on the deviation from the medium-term objective - for which an absolute majority of the members of the Senate is required - will take place on Thursday, October 11. The Presidency may decide to suspend the sitting in relation to the progress of its work. Any amendments to the resolution accepted by the Government on the Update Note should be submitted within 30 minutes of the opinion. The vote will be taken at around 5.30 p.m. The question time already foreseen for that date will not take place. At its meeting on Tuesday 16 October, the President of the Council of Ministers' communications on the European Council were confirmed. From 4.30 p.m. the work will continue with the examination from the drawing up site of the proposal for the creation of the Commission of single-cameral investigation on feminicide and with the general discussion of the bill on the smaller islands, which can continue even beyond the normal closing hours. The follow-up to the examination of the latter measure will continue at the sitting on Wednesday 17. The discussion times were broken down on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. Amendments will have to be tabled by 2 p.m. tomorrow, on Wednesday 10 October. The schedule of the week also provides for discussion from the headquarters, where concluded by the Commissions, of the following measures: national network cancer registers; civic education; institution Commission of Inquiry into the banking system. In the week from 23 to 25 October the draft law on self-defense and the vote of political-mafia exchange will be discussed. During the sessions of Thursday, 18 and 25 October, the question time was confirmed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u98	STEFANO (PD). Mr President, through your person, I would like to ask for the reply from Minister Centinario to Act No 4-00551, which I have presented. With this act of inspection union I wanted to ask for updates on the counter plan to the epidemic of Xylella annoying, several times announced as imminent by the Minister. After having heard for weeks and weeks, for months, from both the actors of this composite majority, who had the answer for all the problems of the country, including Xylella; after the catwalk in July of Minister Centinario in the infected area (which was followed first by the announcement that in a couple of weeks he would launch an ad hoc plan to counter this scourge and, subsequently, once received the applause, an update of the deadline in September, after the holidays, even in this case only to collect the applause), well, today, October 9, we have not yet heard about what we intend to do. The Minister of Agricultural Policy has stopped at the announcement with a post: "After listening to everyone," a listening which, however, continues but which I believe will no longer bring anything to him, even in the inexplicable committees of inquiry that are being set up. In the meantime, I believe it can be said that this annoying Xylella is not standing still, is not ready to wait for the Minister to come to the right advice and assume responsibility for function by taking action against an emergency, but also for a community - the Apulian one - to which promises have been made that they are not now being maintained. That is why, Mr President, I ask you to strongly urge the response to that act of inspection union with which I ask where we are and whether the announced tables have settled or not.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u101	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank you for this opportunity because I would like to draw the attention of the minister responsible through his office to the fact that EUR 200 million has been diverted from the plan for the Masterplan funds for the Abruzzo region. These are funds for development and cohesion (FSC) allowed to the Abruzzo Region for the objectives of the Masterplan. 200 million euros have been taken away, with article 16, paragraph 2, letter d), of the decree-law Genoa. We want the motorway to be completed as far as its safety activities are concerned, but this cannot lead to EUR 200 million being evaded in the contractual procedure as regards the definition of implementing projects, the putting into production of construction sites. Since today the sitting has been devoted to funds removed from the municipalities, we cannot organize a "sagra" of funds that are first given and then taken away, because this erases the credibility of the national order. There is a need to activate investments, to secure the highways, but without every time zeroing the previous administrative consistency. I hope then that the Minister will specify when this bloody article that takes away resources from the Abruzzo Region will be resolved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u104	Garavini (PD). Mr President, I am calling on the Government to take a stand on the act of 4-0019, which I tabled in April, with which I ask the Government to take a position with regard to the Belgian authorities on cases of expulsion of Italian compatriots; not a case, not ten or one hundred cases, but over 12,000 cases in just six years. About ten days ago authoritative representatives of the Government compared to a case, only apparently similar, in Germany, of a compatriot who, compared to the request for social assistance, was threatened with expulsions, probably due to the excessive diligence of an official, exponents of the Government have been unleashed, while compared to these cases - I repeat over 12,000 - of compatriots expelled from Belgium there is total silence. I therefore urge the Government to take a position, Mr President, also because these cases cannot be dealt with. I am afraid, however, that the Government is in fact in difficulty because these compatriots are nothing more than victims of laws that, unfortunately, our Government is preparing itself to introduce, creating first-class citizens and second-class citizens. In fact, to the extent that it is announced that the introduction of citizenship income will only concern Italian citizens and not expressly European citizens, there is a risk of creating the conditions for a total lack of respect for the rights of democracy and equality, including less to the European directive which provides for the free movement and residence of European citizens and their family members.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u107	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 14 June 2009 Asia Bibi worked in the fields as a farmer, she went to the well to get water, then offering it to the Muslim women who worked with her, who did not accept water because they felt that she was now contaminated by an unfaithful. She explained that her faith in Christ had led her to do this gesture of charity and was denounced by the local mullah for blasphemy. Asia Noreen Bibi, mother of five children, has been imprisoned since June 2009 and has been languishing in a Pakistani prison ever since; beaten, raped and then sentenced to death for hanging. The judge who sentenced her to death on 8 November 2010 offered her the revocation of the sentence in exchange for her conversion to Islam. She replied that she preferred to die as a Christian than to live as a Muslim and said to the judge: If you have condemned me to death because I love God, I will be proud to sacrifice my life for him. I did not hear feminists or cries of support for this brave woman who was subjected to the last degree of judgment yesterday. From the news we've gathered in these hours, it seems that the Supreme Court of Pakistan's verdict has been issued, but it's confidential. It seems that the judges, as reported by Asia News, want to avoid unrest or that the revolt breaks out. His lawyer calls for Western countries to be ready to offer immediate political asylum. I would like to draw the attention of this House and the institutions of our country to this kind of political asylum that we are interested in and which we hope will be done quickly and immediately. We ask that world governments no longer be able to pursue people simply because they are Christians. We would like Asia Bibi to be hosted soon in Italy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u108	Thank you for your timely and touching intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u111	RUSSO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 8 October 1986 - 8 October 2018: yesterday was the 32nd anniversary of the death of little Claudio Domino, an innocent victim of the mob. To remember and remember all 125 children innocent victims of the Mafia, yesterday in Palermo, were the parents and the group Paolo Borsellino di Agenda Rosse. I met Claudio's mom when she intervened during the presentation of a book by a mutual friend who was the victim of the mob. That day the story of a mother who sees her son mowing his life frozen the air. Killed because he was an uncomfortable witness, killed because he was in the wrong place. It's not true that the mob doesn't touch children. Justice with a blow to the head, with a lethal injection, dissolves them in acid. From that day on, I feel it is my duty to remember all 125 children who are victims of the mafia and to entrust their life denied to this House to keep its memory alive. [[Applause from the M5S, FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u114	VONO (M5S). Mr President, I speak for my Calabria, torn by the floods of the last days that have taken away to the joy of Christian life, seven years old, and her mother, while Nicolò, just two years old, is still missing. We are all grieved by this tragedy but our task cannot stop at normal, human solidarity. We must intervene forcefully to give concrete answers that prescind from closeness in pain and are effective for the recovery of the territory. In these days I have been able to see for myself the collapses, landslides and landslides on the main provincial roads connecting the area of Vibo Valentia and Catanzaro. I had already realized that the emergency in Calabria is actually chronic but I had to be aware that little of what happened was due to fate. Much is due to the neglect of the territory, to the absence of planned interventions to prevent the hydrogeological failure, to the lack of maintenance of the road infrastructures that are fundamental. In the immediacy I ask you for a unitary effort to subscribe to a shared amendment for Calabria that makes it possible to find the necessary funds to eliminate isolation. We don't need to recriminate blame. It is time to take responsibility, including those arising from past measures. It is time to act firmly to defend our territories, to act for the area of Lametino in which the tragedy of the victims occurred and where since the eighties is expected the completion of the road that is not there, connecting artery of the provinces of Catanzaro and Cosenza; to act for the area of Vibonese for which, in the spirit of institutional collaboration, I invite the leaders of the national ANAS and the Calabria compartment to unblock the bureaucratic practices in order to guarantee the viability through the ordinary and extraordinary maintenance of the former state road 110, unworkable for structural collapse of the road mantle and cause of isolation of the territories, waiting for the completion of the Transversale delle Serre that is important, a fundamental track that unites the two coasts of Calabria. As Calabrians then we ask and, in the institutional role, we intimidate the ANAS to keep faithful to the commitments undertaken, working for the completion of the remaining works in the province of Vibo Valentia, putting an end to the condition of conflict between citizens and institutions, then to finish with diligence the works of Monte Cucco and proceed to the opening of the junction of Vazzano of access to the highway, already several months late, without parades and ribbon cuts. Nothing particular, therefore, only that everyone, however competent, does their duty for a real change and a quick recovery of the delays suffered by the country, beginning with us parliamentarians. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u115	Of course we join the request, extending it to the many other places in every part of Italy that have suffered in this period earthquakes and floods - I think Sicily - with victims and many inconveniences. This is a problem that I believe all political forces feel and I hope that the majority will be able to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u118	ORTOLANI (M5S). Mr President, today, as we heard from President Alberti Casellati, is the National Day in memory of the victims of environmental and industrial disasters caused by man's neglect. You yourself have spoken very loud words, drawing the attention of the institutions to start hydrogeological rehabilitation projects throughout the territory, which has been neglected. Let's start with a quick reference to the great phenomenon of Vajont. These great phenomena are very important because they allow scholars to understand how dangerous nature is and how man must relate to it wisely. Some data. The Vajont basin, ruled by a dam, contained 115 million cubic metres of water. Suddenly, from the left orographical side, a landslide of 270 million cubic metres was severed, which plunged into the lake at a speed of 100 kilometers per hour. This great mass moved all the water of the basin, throwing it on the opposite side, towards the mountain, and a large part (over 20 million cubic meters) towards the dam, which was surmounted and climbed over. This volume of water plunged into the below Piave Valley, creating that devastation we saw; great phenomenon. The trial began in 1968 and ended in 2000. It was established that nature was being forced, with greater coverage than was allowed in safety, because the private artificial basin had to be sold to ENEL at the time of nationalisation. In 2000, the trial was finally closed, and ENEL, Montedison and the Italian State were sentenced to pay 33.3% each of the costs. Why the Italian State? Because state officials had not acted transparently in the defence of citizens' interests and had endorsed the interests of the private company that was to sell the artificial basin to ENEL. That is, therefore, the importance of a very attentive state, which is truly the defender of all citizens, first of all. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u121	MANGIALAVORI (FI-BP). Mr President, I too, like Senator Vono, wanted to bring to the attention of the House and above all of the Government (which unfortunately is not at the moment) what has happened in Calabria: a tragedy that has been well described by my colleague Vono; a tragedy that requires immediate intervention by the Government. Since Senator Vono said that she would like an amendment which could find the necessary funds for the resolution of the problem, I hope that this will happen as soon as possible. I will be, if he wishes, the first signatory of this amendment - or even the last if he believes - but I would ask that it be done immediately because there are too many countries disarticulated by the rest of the region and therefore there is an absolute need to do well and above all soon. [[Applause from the FI-BP and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u124	VITALI (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to know whether this Government never wants to answer questions, or is this a treatment that it only uses with regard to my questioner. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In fact, I would like to ask for answers to questions 3-00008, 3-00009 and 4-00114 of 29 May, 4-00219 of 12 June, 4-00256 of 21 June, 4-00543 of 13 September and 3-00210 of 19 September. I'd just like to get a hit. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency will forward its request to the Offices.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-45.ana.u125	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
