ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 20 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u3	At the beginning of the sitting, the President of the 5 Star Movement Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, a request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u4	I communicate that the President of the Senate has called to be part of the Italian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE the senators Luigi Augussori, Gianluca Castaldi, Gianluca Ferrara, Renato Schifani, Paola Taverna, Achille Totaro and Vito Vattuone. The President of the Chamber of Deputies called for the same delegation to include Alex Bazzaro, Mauro Del Barba, Paolo Grimoldi, Niccolò Invidia, Emanuele Scagliusi and Valentino Valentini. The President of the Senate has called to be part of the Italian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the INCE the senators Luigi Cesaro, Giovanbattista Fazzolari, Patty L'Abbate. Stefania Ascari, Marco Maggioni, Raphael Raduzzi and Debora Serracchiani have been called to the same delegation by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. The President of the Senate called Senator Giuseppe Moles to join the Italian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean. The President of the Chamber of Deputies has called to join the same delegation the MPs Giulio Centemero and Yana Chiara Ehm.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on the draft law no. 766, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 406, 415, 557, 704 and 767. The rapporteurs, Senators Dessi and Ruspandini, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Ruspandini.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u6	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, the news of the death of children who have been forgotten in cars is always disturbing and unbelieving in public opinion, but unfortunately it is not new. In this House we cannot remain indifferent to dramatic cases such as those we have known and we must act to protect these innocents, but also to their parents and loved ones, obviously stressed by the pressing rhythms of a society today, which wears down everyday life and victims of an inexplicable blackout mechanism in memory. The motivations are usually the haste, stress and mental fatigue, which afflict adults of all kinds and social extraction in contemporary societies, so the children are forgotten because they are thought to have left them at school, by their grandparents or at home. The technology now allows us to overcome these cruel psyche jokes, offering solutions that can prevent and remedy the dangers arising from the intense rhythms of everyday life. Italy, already at the forefront of road safety, at the time when the measure we are examining will be approved will also be at the forefront for the protection of the lives of our children. In fact, this measure pays attention to the little ones and is aimed at averting the many cases of absurd deaths. Just to take the example of the United States, one child dies here in the cabin of the family car every ten days, with an average of 37 victims per year. These are chilling figures, which must require reflection. In recent years too many tragic events that, even in Italy, have filled the news and upset public opinion. From 2011 to today there have been seven tragedies, too many, that must definitely be avoided. The bill we are debating today in this House wants to talk to families, to give answers, to start from those tragedies so that there are no more. To this end, Article 1 makes amendments to Article 172 of the Road Code on the use of safety belts and child restraint systems, providing that, when carrying a child under the age of four, insured to the seat by means of the restraint system, an alarm device corresponding to certain technical specifications is required to prevent the abandonment of the child. The technical-constructive and functional characteristics of the alarm device will be identified within sixty days from the date of entry into force of this law, by decree of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the rapporteur, Senator Dessi.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the text adopted by the 8th Commission, which introduces the obligation to install devices to prevent the abandonment of children in closed vehicles, arrives here today. First of all, I would like to thank my colleagues from all the groups for their work in the 8th Commission, which led to the rapid adoption of a text whose aim is widely shared. The draft law was unanimously approved by the Commission at its meeting on 20 September 2018. This measure is, for the safety of the youngest children, an absolutely important step, invoked for a long time to protect them from the risk of being unconsciously forgotten in the cockpit of closed cars, vehicles that, as my colleague Mr Ruspandini recalled, can become real deadly traps. I would remind you that according to the data submitted by the producer of the first anti-abandonment device, in the hearing in the Commission transports to the House, in 2008 there were already 45 cases. In 2014, one in four parents admitted that it happened at least once to forget their child in the car and only fortunately did not come to the tragedy. Turning to the process and examination of the text, the Commission examined the draft law No 766, together with several draft laws submitted by other groups. The bill No. 766, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, was adopted as a basic text and approved in the same text as the House Transport Commission. The Commission has carried out a short cycle of informal hearings. In particular, we have listened to the manufacturers who have highlighted the need to define certain technical aspects, for example, relating to the type-approval of devices in the ministerial framework. They have also advanced the possibility that car manufacturers will provide the vehicles directly with alarm sensors. A dozen amendments have been tabled to the text. Some of these were withdrawn and transformed into agendas then accepted by the Government. I would like to focus in particular on the subject on the agenda before the signing of Senator Mallegni, which certainly deserves further consideration by the Commission, namely that the buses must be fitted with the type-approved restraint system. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u8	Colleagues senators, please lower the tone of voice in the speeches between you.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u9	(M5S). On the substance, the draft law under consideration consists of four articles. Article 1 makes changes to Article 172 of the Code of the road concerning the use of safety belts and child restraint systems, introducing a new paragraph, 1-a, which provides that the driver of vehicles of category M1, N1, N2 and N3 - practically cars, buses and coaches up to nine seats, and all trucks up to the maximum capacity, registered in Italy or registered abroad and conducted by residents in Italy - when carrying a child under the age of four years, insured to the seat with the restraint system, has the obligation to use an alarm device designed to prevent the abandonment of the child, meeting the specific construction and functional techniques established by decree of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. In case of non-use of safety belts and child restraint systems, the possibility of using a restraint system without the above-mentioned warning device is also included among the cases sanctioned. The violation of the obligation is therefore punished with a pecuniary administrative penalty from 81 to 326 euros. In the event of a recurrence over a period of two years, the additional penalty of the suspension of the licence from fifteen days to two months is provided. Also to article 1, paragraph 2, it is previewed that the technical-constructive and functional characteristics of the alarm device are defined with decree of the Ministry of infrastructures and the transports to issue within sixty days from the date of entry into force of the present law. Finally, it is foreseen, in paragraph 3, that the obligation to install the alarm device, applies from the date of entry into force of the decree on technical-functional characteristics and in any case from 1 July 2019. Article 2 provides that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, in consultation with the Ministry of Health, in the field of road safety and social awareness campaigns, shall ensure that adequate information is provided on the obligation and the correct methods of using alarm devices to prevent the abandonment of children provided for in Article 1 and on the risks arising from dissociative amnesia. The costs for carrying out the information campaigns are estimated at EUR 80,000 for each of the years 2019, 2020 and 2021. In order to facilitate the purchase of warning devices and to prevent the abandonment of children in vehicles, Article 3 provides that tax relief may be provided, limited in time, in compliance with European State aid rules. In this last respect, we know that there is a clear commitment from our Minister, Mr Toninelli, to finding the resources for the facilities. I conclude my report by pointing out that the adoption of this measure is only a first step towards achieving the objective that we have all shared, namely to ensure safety for our little ones and the weakest in any case. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u10	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u11	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Senate and the House of Deputies for the excellent work they have done on this measure, which has also given a strong impetus to the Government and which has been strongly desired and well done by Parliament. Finally, the introduction of the obligation to install the anti-abandonment device will certainly avoid many tragedies. The objective of the government and the parliamentary majority is in fact to aim to decrease the victims of road accidents on the Italian roads, where we now count an average of about 3,500 victims per year, but certainly also to aim for a decrease of this type of deaths, which can be easily avoided, also thanks to the new technologies. There are other countries, such as the United States of America, where certain types of rules are already in force, from which we should just take an example. On the measure under consideration, the Government has also undertaken to allocate some resources to the budget law, in order to meet the needs of the families and the costs to be incurred for the purchase of these anti-abandonment devices, which do not replace the entire car seat, but are in addition to the existing car seats. We trust that from here to next year, thanks also to the new technologies, the market and the production chain that will evolve, the prices of these devices, that are already very low, will go further to lower. So thank you again and I hope that the Senate's final vote will also be positive. You've done a great job so far. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u12	We shall now proceed to the vote on the articles of bill No 766, in the text approved by the House of Deputies. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u13	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u15	BINI (PD). Mr President, I consider this to be an important day, because the one before us is an important bill. As the rapporteurs reminded us, the numbers of accidents of this kind in recent years are increasing and alarm us, and it is therefore important that in this House on issues such as these there is a transversality that goes beyond political distinctions. I think it is nice to see that several draft laws have been presented, by almost all political forces, by our Group, at my first signature, as well as by many other groups in the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies. I speak in my explanation of vote on Article 1, which, as was pointed out by the rapporteurs, introduces mandatory warning devices to prevent the abandonment of children. It is a relevant theme, because at the death of a child we go to add the anguish of guilt, for a moment of amnesia, forgetfulness, which then a person carries with him for life and which aggravates even more the already serious pain for the loss of a child. It is obviously not up to us to understand the causes that lead to this; however, when the cases are repeated, as has happened in recent times, it is important to prevent and find systems so that these cases do not occur again. Hence the idea of changing the road code and introducing administrative sanctions, just as for seat belts and seat seats, including the alarm system, as well as the suspension of the driving licence if the fact is repeated. This element introduces an obligation and has sanctions, as it is important that it is. The definition of the characteristics of the device will be postponed to a subsequent decree of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, which must be issued within sixty days; the obligation of the installation of this device will take place after one hundred and twenty days from the entry into force of the decree and in any case from 1 July 2019. It is important that the decree is approved in terms because, in the event that on 1 July 2019 we were to trigger the installation obligation in the absence of a decree, it would not be clear on the basis of which technical specifications we will have to comply with this obligation. I therefore think it is appropriate that this should not be achieved and that, when the obligation arises, the decree has been adopted in good time. I conclude by saying that the PD Group voted in favour of Article 1 of the draft law under discussion, convinced that there could probably have been a way - if we had managed to do a joint job, as my group's 8th Commission colleagues have also said - of introducing some improvements. I believe, however, that this is an important step which we are absolutely in favour of. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u18	SANTILLO (M5S). Mr President, Elena two years, Jacopo eleven months, Giorgia one year, Luca two years. These are the names of some children who have lost their lives in Italy in recent years because they were forgotten in the car. That a parent forgets in his car how much more precious he has in his life is a circumstance that seems absolutely impossible to happen, but the frenetic rhythms that everyday life imposes on us, those rhythms sometimes even mechanical, can cause emptiness of memory even to those who perhaps in the past, listening to this news, claimed that it would never happen to him. It can happen to everyone. The events of the chronicle report similar tragedies increasingly frequent also abroad; it is a phenomenon that, although marginal (one or two cases per year are mentioned), should not be overlooked. These tragedies must be avoided at all costs. Today the technology allows us to install devices that alert the adult when he closes the car in which there is still a small guest. Minister Toninelli, since his first inauguration, has promised to put an end to this scourge of abandonment and the Movimento 5 Stars has always been very sensitive to this topic and has wanted strongly to support it at the legislative level, voting in favour of a bill that imposes the obligatoryness of these anti-abandonment devices and that has also agreed the other political forces. Thinking of even one child dying in these circumstances is something that affects everyone's sensitivity. The bill will supplement Article 172 of the Road Code, which regulates the use of safety belts and child restraint systems. The most important Italian manufacturers of children's products, who have participated in the preparatory hearings of the bill, as the rapporteur said before, are already setting out the way for the production of these devices, also in view of the entry into force of the obligation in 2019. Finally, it is very important to remember that before the mandatory anti-abandonment devices, there is that of devices for the safety of children in cars. According to ISTAT, 25 children under 14 years of age died in our country in 2017 alone in road accidents, and more than 8,000 were injured. On average, in Italy, one in five families does not use the car seat or use it constantly; but the first cause of death in the car for children continues to be the fact that the car seats are badly connected. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az, FI-BP and FdI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u21	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, no love is greater in a person's life than in a child's life. And one pain is even more intolerable, for a parent who loses a child: to be responsible for his death. I could never imagine, not even remotely, what those poor parents affected by blackouts could feel when they became aware; I just thought that with the death of that child the life of an entire family and even, sometimes, of a community ended. It cannot be thought that such an action can never be carried out simply by lightness, but surely it is due to a set of concauses probably resulting from daily stress. Because such tragedies are not repeated, Forza Italia has also presented in the Senate a bill, to which have been added others of the various political forces, to answer a social question, unfortunately, less rare than you think and that, as Mrs Bini, first signatory, like me, of a bill, can only unite Parliament in a single voice. We would have liked to have further refined the measure, in the light of the deepening of the debate in the Commission and the hearings carried out, but, in order to be able to make the law operational by the summer, which is the time of the year most at risk, it is necessary to approve it as soon as possible. Article 1 of the draft law makes its own amendments to Article 172 of the road code making the installation of anti-abandonment devices mandatory. We are, however, fully aware that when the mandatory nature of a system is imposed, a balance is altered, so we are all the more aware that we find ourselves in lawmaking by introducing an ethical rule that risks weighing economically on those who will have to respect it, that is, the parents. That is why we have tabled a number of amendments, which we have turned into perennial agendas, on which the Government will monitor transposition, ranging from the lower burden on parents to the extension of the time of entry into force of the law to allow effective preparation of the systems. We trust that no more tragedies like this will have to happen, because one saved child will have given meaning to this law. I therefore voted in favour of Article 1 of the draft law under consideration by the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause from the FI-BP, M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u22	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u25	GALLIANI (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like you to remain in the wrong act to vote. My vote was against when I wanted to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u26	The Presidency takes note of this. At this point, applause is required, since Article 1 has been approved without any opposition. [[Applause.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u29	LANZI (M5S). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps there is too little talk in this House about our children, especially children in their first years of life, when they are most vulnerable, when parents are entrusted with the task of protecting them and protecting them from all kinds of danger. But we are human beings and even the most loving parent can make mistakes, and that is where the State, in this case Parliament, must lay down rules to defend the weakest. The life we lead every day too often is full of pressure and stress that affect our attention. If we are talking about vehicles, we are witnessing the proliferation of technological devices to intervene in case of inattention: they are called ADAS (advanced systems of assistance for driving) and the European Parliament has already approved the proposal to make them mandatory for all future cars. It has yet to be established as soon as the obligation arises, but it seems that from 2021 this will become effective. But what has been done to safeguard children travelling on board our cars? The European Parliament's approach with the ADAS is an important signal, but nothing has been done to introduce alarm devices to detect the presence of children in cars, forcing car seats manufacturers to implement them on new products and this can only be done at European level. It is for this reason that the Italian Parliament has promoted a different rule, which acts as a pioneer for the whole of our continent. This text introduces the obligation, for those who transport minors up to four years of age to equip themselves with an alarm device that finally clears the sad data of the children dead because abandoned inside a vehicle. I want to remember that there are at least nine children who in Italy, from 1998 to today, have lost their lives for this cause. Only this year, according to the data submitted by the manufacturer of Remmy devices, there have already been 45 reports of parents who have forgotten their children in the car, not counting all those who have not been denounced because obviously in a parent who has such a forgetfulness prevails a feeling of shame that pushes him to cover up what happened. We are not here to accuse anyone of anything, indeed if, as already said, we bring to zero the number of deaths for this cause will be an example of civilization that our country will give to everyone. The text of this law obviously refers to the Ministry the identification of the technical specifications that these devices must have and in particular to understand which devices are, among the devices on the market, the safest for our children. Not only that, but the Government has already confirmed that the intention is to safeguard this rule - an initiative that is undoubtedly transversal and of common sense - from any speculation. The cost of these devices must not fall on Italian households: for this reason, the inclusion in the law of stability of a fund for deductions for their purchase is under assessment. I hope that there will be unanimity in voting in favour of this measure and that in the future oppositions can more often converge with the majority on issues of fundamental general interest, without getting in the way of pre-constitutional positions. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u32	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, this is not the first time that I have spoken in this House, but - I mean with sincerity - it has a certain effect to discuss and take the floor on a measure that calls into question feelings and emotions. As has already been mentioned, in fact, this measure is a reaction and a response to the misfortunes that the chronicle has returned to us in more than one case, and it is not a matter of numbers but of children. I would ask colleagues to keep quiet, given the subject. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What's going on? RAUTI (FdI). I was asking for some silence, not for me, but for the subject we are discussing, because it seems appropriate to me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator. I don't think your intervention was too disturbed. Anyway, go ahead. RAUTI (FdI). The last disaster in order of time is that of a little girl who died on May 18, 2018 in the province of Pisa, and it is not the only episode. In these cases, there is talk of dramatic fatality; there is talk of a paradoxical and incomprehensible excess of distraction and the devastating effect of emotional and psychophysical stress conditions. It's not up to us to judge. We are talking technically about dissociative amnesia and this expression is also explained in Article 2 of the bill, to which I want to refer. Article 2 provides, in fact, for adequate information to be provided on the obligation and the correct way of using alarm devices to prevent the abandonment of children, as provided for in Article 1, and on the risks arising from dissociative amnesia. Financial coverage of the related charges is also provided. Finally, the provision specifies that campaign messages are messages of social utility; this too is an added value of the measure that we are going to approve, in which we therefore ask for information on the devices, financial cover and advertising that informs. Today politics, with respect to its main vocation, then has a great opportunity to do something concrete that can save one and more lives. Mr Ruspandini reminded this House of the seven cases of children who have disappeared. I don't want to nail your emotions, but these cases wouldn't have occurred if there had been a special law in this country that could have prevented them, helping those parents. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] What we are going to do is then approve a child-saving law, a lifesaver, a sacred provision in which we all have to believe. I would like to remind you that on 21 May 2018 the Fratelli d'Italia Group presented in Parliament a bill requiring all vehicles on which children travel to install devices equipped with a sound and/or bright signal to alert the driver of a situation of risk and danger, in case the children remain inside the vehicle. It is the answer to the terrible expression "amnesia dissociativa", that blackout of memory that no one can explain, that created the cases we are talking about. This is a positive signal that the policy has given, which has seen the parliamentary groups follow the appeal made by Giorgia Meloni, first signatory to the House of this measure, to support this proposal and to choose a quick process of approval. It was a heartfelt appeal, which has been taken up by everyone, and this - I repeat - is a fine signal given by politics. It is a signal because the times were fast, both in the House and in the Senate - August and then September in the competent Commissions - and for this we thank all those who have personally committed themselves. The appeal has been made and today we are able to give a concrete signal - I shall conclude, President - and, for once, to make politics look good, not in this House, but outside. In fact, we have the opportunity to offer an image of Parliament that goes beyond bipartisan and transversality, which would already be two good values; we have the possibility, in communities of intent, to give this country a measure to save human lives and, even if there were only one case (but there are many more, according to the news), not only would we have done our duty, what brings us here to represent the citizens, but we would have provided a service to the country, to children and to parents. It is therefore not just an appeal to the heart, but to our social, collective and political responsibility. [[Applause from the FdI and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u35	Mr Rizzotti (FI-BP). Mr President, Forza Italia will vote in favour of this article, which concerns a sensitive and sensitive subject. Already in the last legislature my Group had presented to the House a draft law in this regard, as in this legislature Senator Gallone is the first signatory of a bill on this proposal. My colleagues have already reminded me how horrible it can be for a parent to lose a child for his own fault, for his own carelessness. We will therefore vote in favour of Article 2 in particular, which contains provisions for information and awareness-raising campaigns. This is a fundamental aspect of prevention, on this and on other issues, starting with health. It is important that when these atrocious events happen, we do not talk about them for the only two months of the summer, forgetting them in the next ten months. We also fully agree on the financial allocation for information. I would like the Government to be sensitive to a change in Law No 150 of 7 June 2000 which provides for these commercials which are a bit quotad: 2% per hour of transmission and 1% per week. I believe that a real information campaign should have more time at the radio and television level. I hope that this suggestion will be accepted. Unfortunately, several improvements to the text in the Commission have not been accepted. There have also been remarks from the Senate Studies Office on Articles 1 and 3, but we know that at the moment the technicians are not very listened to. However, we are sure that the Government, to which we are giving a delegation in white, will surprise us in preparing in the coming weeks the implementing decrees, so that already from the next summer the dramatic cases come to the chronicle no longer have to present [[Applause from the FI-BP and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u36	I would like to greet the students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo "Garibaldi-Leone" in Trinitapoli, in the province of Barletta-Andria-Trani, who, as they used to be, all wear a shirt of the same color. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u37	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u40	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just today I was observing - I imagine you all have noticed - that the most important national newspaper (so defined and known) devoted a good page to the usefulness of our activity: nothing new, nothing serious. However, I believe that today we are doing something not only useful, but also absolutely rewarding, at least for me. As a father, I had the most unpleasant feeling of being in this condition. Until that day, I considered the parents who were dying - even they - to be foolish, forgetful, irresponsible, distracted in the occurrence of that misfortune but one day it happened to me too. My Julia fortunately showed up, she showed up, she caught my attention: for a moment I had a thrill and changed my mind about what happened to those parents. I have changed my mind - as in my life I have happened many times on prejudices - about the ease with which such a story can happen, about the ease with which it can "fall in the head" something that leads us to continue our lives practically like zombies, of the living dead. Evidently, the numbers would suggest that this phenomenon is marginal. In fact, we are legalizing - and I am truly grateful for this possibility and for the unanimity with which we are doing so - on a matter which goes far beyond the dramatic numbers of this phenomenon. I am speaking on Rule 3, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, because I think it is particularly important. I believe, as has already been said, that we should avoid - and this, I address to the representative of the Government, may happen since the next budget law - that the economic cost of this law falls entirely on families, on parents. As the Brothers of Italy, we have repeatedly repeated and abundantly "tumbled" that in Italy, at this moment, a couple of young people, who decide to join in marriage, to make the mortgage for the home and to put their hands on fatherhood and motherhood, to parenthood, are heroes; they are small-great civil heroes. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] We are in the presence of a denatality rate that gripes Italy and puts it in the lead to very bad rankings on the old Continent. With regard to this, ladies and gentlemen, it would really be a mockery that the effort we are making today in legislative terms falls economically on these families, which we, on the other hand, must protect, help and encourage. Therefore, the invitation that we address, as the Brothers of Italy Group, awaiting the implementing decree of this law, which we obviously urge for its speed, is to take advantage of the next budget law to immediately affix the resources so that at least a large part of this economic effort of families is supported in terms of tax relief and concrete aid for the benefit of those who will have to bear this expenditure. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u43	DAMIANI (FI-BP). Mr President, allow me first of all to greet the school of my Province. Colleagues senators, too many times recently we have read news reports whose victims were children of a few years, left - alas - in the car and found unfortunately after a day of work without life. A unique tragedy, certainly chilling even for us who have learned, heard or just read such news. Imagine what it may have been for the parent, mom, dad or the whole family: a guilt that each of these parents and family members will carry on throughout their lives. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ronzulli, I do not doubt your artistic qualities as a photographer, but if you can perform outside the Chamber we are all grateful to you. It will then show us the result. DAMIANI (FI-BP). Today we are all aware, as many colleagues have said, of the difficulties of everyday life: many distractions, many automatisms, many overwhelming situations that - alas - unfortunately bring down significantly during the day the threshold of attention of each of us. It is precisely when the threshold of attention is lowered that these tragedies happen. I have signed with my Group, with Senator Gallone as the first signatory, a bill that goes in this direction, along with all the others that have been presented. This measure concerns the amendment of Article 172 of the road code and will make it compulsory to install light or sound sensors on vehicles which, when the car is turned off or the doors are closed, give a signal. Today our cars are equipped with many systems that help us so much in road safety and this too can be a very good system that can help in this regard. So let us make it quick and act as soon as possible with the implementing decrees in the technical study of the related devices, providing for the possibility, in particular with regard to Article 3, of tax relief in this respect. In fact, the hearings that have been held and the research that has been carried out in the market have shown that the system can cost a few hundred euros. It is therefore necessary to provide for the possibility for a limited time - which may also be the time we have already provided for in the advertising campaign law, therefore the three-year period 2019-2021 - of tax reductions, which will not only help the safety of the vehicle and the child, because, dear President, with the bill on our examination, saving the life of a child will also mean saving the life of an entire family. [[Applause from the FI-BP, FdI and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u44	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u47	MODENA (FI-BP). Mr President, first of all I would like to thank my colleague Mr Schifani, but also my fellow Members, Mr Gallone, Mr Mallegni and Mr De Siano, who have signed two amendments with me, and then turned into an agenda that commits the Government. Thank you very much, as I thank all the political forces of the Commission who have wanted this kind of commitment to the Government. It refers in particular to two aspects which, in the end, are also of interest to families: the cost of these devices and the time of application. In fact, we would otherwise have been in a situation in which, on the one hand, we would have rightly intervened to avoid tragedies (as all colleagues before me have mentioned), but, on the other hand, we would have risked having a heavy impact on the pockets of citizens and especially of families, mothers and families with more children. Therefore, we believe that from this point of view a careful and also meritorious work has been carried out, because it must be considered that every time we go to affect expenses that do not weigh on the State but on the citizens must certainly be used a considerable caution. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u49	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u50	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome and share the intentions of the proposers and I fully agree with the action taken in the Commission by my colleagues in Forza Italia. Unfortunately, the unintelligible armoring of the measure put in place by the majority of the government has prevented changes that I believe are indispensable. I also fully agree with the agendas presented by my fellow Members, Mr Schifani, Mr Gallone, Mr Modena, Mr Mallegni and Mr De Siano, but I believe that amendments would have been necessary. For this reason, I did not participate in the vote on Article 1 and will not participate in the vote on the article under consideration or in the final vote. I would ask the Presidency to attach to the report an addition to the speech, where I would like to explain my position more broadly.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u51	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u54	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, our Group will vote in favour of this measure. We are pleased that his iter was so fast, with the convinced support of all political forces. It may seem incredible that someone forgets a newborn in the car, but, as we are told, it is not just a matter of carelessness or carelessness. In many cases we are faced with a real pathology - that of dissociative amnesia - that manifests itself in particular conditions of stress and tiredness. The acoustic beacon is a small device that, as we all hope, will prevent such dramatic events, able to mark forever the lives of families. Never underestimate the dangers of driving. From the lack of child seats to the use of mobile phones while driving: we all know how much this can make a difference. For this reason, I agree with the will of Minister Toninelli to tighten the penalties for those who violate the rules, starting with the withdrawal of the license for those who speak or write to the mobile phone. The Commission also debated potential costs for citizens. It is important that the Ministry, following the agenda that the Commission has accepted, strives to define technical-constructive characteristics of the sensors with a view to reducing these costs. Because the less it costs the faster the objective of this measure will be achieved. And it is with this hope that I repeat the vote in favour of the Group for the Autonomies. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u57	NENCINI (Misto-PSI). Mr President, my explanation of vote is in a personal capacity and the Group I represent. It will be a very brief statement, based on three considerations. The first is that an Assembly which unanimously votes on an act of civilisation is always a good thing. The second of the considerations: we have been witnessing for five years, since 2013, a vertical phenomenon of abandoning children in cars. There are many reasons, investigated by psychologists and sociologists. It is a fact that this measure becomes indispensable. It is not only an Italian phenomenon, and in fact data and numbers have been cited concerning the United States and a very large part of Europe as well. It is a fact that has to do with the contemporary and - I would like to say - also with a sort of presentism, that every day kills us in the avalanche of big and small daily issues from which women and men are troubled. The fact remains that this is a small but indispensable measure. The third consideration is that, next to the car seat with alarm mechanisms and warning devices, there is another factor that I urge the Government to evaluate. It has been the subject of discussion and reflection in the past months and years and to date, unfortunately, confirms its validity: both the lack of car seats with the warning for children and the use or, indeed, the lack of a strong violation compared to those who use the smartphone or other technologically advanced instruments when they are driving a car are causing the greater number of injured and dead on the roads. Natural completion of today's measure, inside or outside the road code (it doesn't matter at all), would therefore be the adoption of a measure to combat this latter phenomenon, which I hope the government wants to adopt. I conclude by pointing out that one of the proposals, which I thank the Government for having accepted, reached within the 8th Parliamentary Senate Committee concerns the possibility of re-using existing child seats by providing them with an alert mechanism. That act, that is, the possibility in normal to use this mechanism, is definitely the right thing, because this saves the father, the mother and those who are already in possession of such accessory even more than the fiscal incentive that is expected within the norm. [[Applause from the Misto-Leu Group and Senator D'Arienzo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u60	Ruspandini (FdI). I remember my screams, my colleagues rushing, trying to stay close to me and then the arrival of the rescue, my hopelessness without remedy, the impossibility of accepting what had happened. The macerate on how it was possible. I couldn't even say goodbye to my son like I wanted. The trauma was devastating. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to begin my speech on behalf of the Brothers of Italy Group with the words of a father, with the exemplifying words of a drama that shocked an entire family by tearing a whole community, with the words of those who saw the life of their two-year-old son slip away because he forgot locked in the cabin of the family car. Here, the bill we are discussing today is the Meloni law, strongly wanted by our president Giorgia Meloni, which I greet for his presence. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] As someone remembered, saving a child is like saving the world. This commitment to the search for a lifesaving device deserves the presence of a national leader like ours, whom we are fortunate to have here in this House. That is why we have followed with great attention the path of this law, progressively verifying its process. I want to thank - as Isabella Rauti recalled - all those who did not create obstructionism, but who wanted to look at the ratio of a law of great civilization, which puts Italy at the forefront of road safety and the importance that must be assured to human life. It was necessary, for us as Brothers of Italy, to prevent the repetition of these absurd deaths and we wanted to fight with all our strength for the Meloni law, because those who forget - we must remember here - are often the victims of a society that demands too much from everyone. Not always behind these dramas there are negligent parents, indeed almost never. Paradoxically this is a catastrophe that affects precisely the most responsible parents, those who work, those who tend to do a thousand things. The phenomenon of parental distraction unfortunately affects modern societies to a far greater extent than the chronicles report. There are many more cases than we are here today to assess, precisely because many - thank God - do not end with this tragic ending; but they do happen anyway. The Brothers of Italy Group does not want to judge the parents at all, there would be more. However, we want to remember what analysts all over the industrialized world want to emphasize, namely that the stress of this modern society generates fatal blackouts in the mind and psyche of so many of us, of so many people. It is a temporary blur, often devastating, too fatal: haste, stress, mental fatigue, addiction to a reality that we often tend to reject and that we can no longer contain. Children are forgotten in the back seats of our cars because they are believed to have left them at kindergarten, they are believed to have left them at home, they are believed to have left them at school. And the shock, what analysts tell, in front of and immediately after these tragedies, is also manifested in the disbelief of the parent: the parent seems unbelieving, his brain does not react. Not always behind these episodes are negligent parents. Think that in the United States an average of one child dies every ten days; there are over 40 victims of these chilling mental mechanisms. In Italy we have remembered the nine confirmed victims, seven only since 2011: Pisa, Arezzo, Florence, Piacenza, Perugia, Teramo. Tragedies that can be repeated, however; dramas that require the need to find suitable solutions, the haste to find necessary and indispensable solutions. That is why the Meloni law provides for the obligation, for all motor vehicles on which children travel, to install appropriate devices on the car seats that, through an acoustic-luminescent signal, will notify the parents of the presence of the child in the car, even when the car is turned off, so as to prevent them from being forgotten inside the passenger compartment. After the green light of the Transport Commissions of Chamber and Senate, finally there is this beautiful day of politics, this great parliamentary experience that leads Italy to adopt a law that puts us at the forefront in prevention and also in civilization. This is a great victory. It is a source of great pride and responsibility for all the Brothers of Italy. In conclusion, Mr President, this virtuous process - I will not read the mechanisms of the law - really allows us to be here today to remember that good policy is being done if we can all together identify good intentions and priorities. And this is a small big priority. The Meloni law will improve Italy and save a child's life, and I believe that this is the best of the political action that a parliamentary group and an entire Parliament can aspire to. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u63	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of this measure which we have shared with all the other groups and which we have also actively participated in with the presentation of a draft law at the first signature of my colleague Catherine Bini. We agree with the introduction in Italy of the obligation to use an anti-abandonment device on the car seats that transport children and we vote in favour of the bill at our examination, despite the criticalities that we have already highlighted in the Transport Committee and that remain within the measure. On the other hand, the figures we had before us, the numbers were impressive, very worrying and some have been mentioned: eight cases in Italy in recent years, tens and dozens in the United States, in Israel about ten, in France still others and I could make a long list. We found ourselves, therefore, faced with numbers that, due to the value of the stakes - the children - were scared of our country, made impression; numbers that highlighted to our attention the need for such a measure to prevent tragic events, primarily for families and then for the whole community. From this motivation comes our adherence, the sharing, together with many others, of an excellent day of politics and the need to make the device mandatory. We have shared this choice - as I said - but there are still problems, concerns which we have expressed and which we have tabled with amendments which have not been accepted. We have in mind the hearing of the Road Police which took place in the House of Deputies, namely those who watch over our safety and the roads, who had made another proposal compared to the one we approved. They proposed setting the obligation at the age of five. We shared this proposal, for the experience that the Road Police wanted to convey to us. The rapporteurs did not explain and we did not understand why, then, within the measure, the obligation remained fixed at the age of four. One aspect on which we have expressed different ideas and on which we maintain a certain diversity of opinion is the contradiction inherent in the double obligation, within one hundred and twenty days after the enactment of the decree of the Ministry of Transport that sets out its technical characteristics and in any case before the first of July. This duplication could create confusion, particularly if the decree of the Ministry of Transport were not issued in time. We proposed that the obligation should start after a reasonable period after the decree was issued, and that is enough, precisely to avoid any difficulties, for the sake of clarity. Excellent the forecast of an information campaign by the Ministry to inform the community, the Italian people of the measure under consideration. On the contrary, the fact that Saturday 29 - it is not only the Ministry - the representatives of the National Union self-schools and car consulting studies will go to three hospitals in Milan, Naples and Rome, giving one hundred families an anti-abandonment device, testifies that this measure is shared and corresponds to a real need felt in the country. It is clear that the obligation of the car seat with the alarm will involve an expense. And today much of the debate has been focused on this aspect. It is certainly a lighter expense - what family does not spend on the protection of their children? - but it's still a grocery store. It would have been right to provide for tax facilitation in the measure and we had proposed that it should be at least 50%. And we had done so after the statements of Minister Toninelli, in summer, and then also of the present Undersecretary Dell'Orco, who had promised a facility up to the maximum amount of 200 euros. That was not the case and, indeed, the amendments we proposed in the Commission were rejected. That facility would have favoured another aspect, because unfortunately there is not only the risk of abandoning children, but there are also children who, despite being on car seats, suffer serious injuries, if nothing else, precisely because of the same car seat. Those resources and that facility would also favor the purchase of a better car seat. Today the car seats cost between 150 and 350 euros and therefore this measure would have favored the families in the purchase of a product certainly more avant-garde than the requirements that we are putting. In any case, it is obviously not important for us that the promise has not been kept. Families will judge and we will also be careful for the future. For us, in the balance of interests, the need to include the obligation to install the device prevails, in order to increase safety and we are sure that families will do so even without the incentive. As far as we are concerned, therefore, we do not focus attention, except by denouncing what has happened, although we do not want to do so. We think - but I understand that we will not be the only ones - that in the next budget law there can be a segment of reflection on this aspect, in order to repair such a forgetfulness. Moreover, the budget law - as is well known - will intervene before the alarm on the seats is required. And we will do so to give Italian families all the tools to choose the best device they think they buy to protect their children. In conclusion, Mr President, the need to protect children, the serenity of parents and the well-being of the community are the good to be pursued and prevail over the shortcomings and concerns to which I have referred, which we hope will soon be resolved. For that supreme good that are our children, the Democratic Party Group will vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u66	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to thank my colleagues from the 8th standing Commission, with whom we have agreed, who have followed with particular attention and involvement the whole process, and in particular the hearings to which the rapporteur referred, and have had the responsibility and sensitivity to acknowledge that the best is the enemy of good. I say this because of the importance of the subject-matter of the measure and the price that a further delay in approving the text could entail. Often, both among those involved in the work and in the collective imagination, laws are divided between important laws and minor laws. What, though, measures the importance of an act? I do not think it is the funds allocated or the clamour that has been stirred up. I believe that the importance of an act is given by the ability to read one's time and to give answers to the problems of one's own time and the bill in question responds to both these characteristics. I would like to make such a clear judgment, because one of those children, whom Senator Santillo mentioned by name in this House, I knew him, because he was from my country and went to kindergarten with my son. I knew him, I knew his parents, and I say without a subject of denial that, if it happened to them, it can really happen to anyone. Besides, I'm not ashamed to say that for a few months I've been dizzying in my car to see if I really left my son in kindergarten. I do not go into the merits of the individual articles, but I just say that the important thing is what we set out in Article 2 in identifying funds for the awareness campaign, because - let me say this - the biggest sanction is not the fine: the biggest sanction that can happen to someone who lives such an experience is having to live together, not so much and not only with the death of their own son, but with the feeling responsible for that death. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and FdI Groups]] So, my community has done its personal bath of humility and I think we have to do it as a national community, because it really is something that can happen to everyone. Allow me to make one final point. This act is fundamental, but the real answer to a problem such as this will not be given by the presence in every car of an anti-abandonment device, but by the time this Parliament is able to ensure that in our society, in our community, a father and a mother are not left alone, they are not in a position to forget their own child. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] It is simply not to have the device that reminds him, but to live in a society that gives answers and is really tailored to the child, family, father and mother. As a Lega Group we will vote in favour of the draft law under discussion, but we will continue to ensure that the implementing decree is issued for additional funds to be found. We know very well that those allocated serve to open the chapter for the campaigns and we dedicate this vote - we are convinced will be a soul - to all those parents who, in the face of the mourning that struck them, have chosen not to close themselves, but to ask for years a law for others, because by now the tragedy had lived it; and they have asked very uninterestedly to be able to give an answer to all the parents of our country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and FdI Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u69	SCHIFANI (FI-BP). Mr President, our vote will be in favour, but it will be a yes of responsibility and not totally convinced, for the reasons I will now put forward. Let it be clear that the issue of child safety is at our heart, so much so that Forza Italia had presented, at the first signature of Senator Gallone, a bill of identical content; in the Chamber in the previous legislature, my colleague Giammanco as a Member of Parliament had obtained the approval by that branch of Parliament of an important bill on the obligation of video surveillance in kindergartens, precisely to focus attention on those disfigurements of the dignity of minors who escaped the control of public opinion and vigilantes. We care about children, but we also care about that society which, from tomorrow, when the measure comes into force, will be imposed a burden; an ethical burden, a burden shared from the social point of view of the dignity and serenity of the child, but also an economic burden. We have tried in every way to make small changes in the Commission, declaring ourselves available - after voting in the House - to have the bill voted again in the other Parliament to focus particular attention on the criterion of the cost-effectiveness of the new costs imposed on families. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We said it, we said it again. We have achieved a closure by a government that has armored a text - let us remember - of parliamentary and non-governmental initiative. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This is a fact - in my opinion - Mr President, which is also reprehensible and serious from the point of view of our parliamentary history. Your history reminds us how much you, being Minister, know - as I do, and like so many of us - what are the unwritten rules but which are part of the proper functioning of the institutions. A bill of parliamentary initiative must be respected because it comes from the initiative of Parliament and cannot a government armor a text saying that no amendments are approved. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This is unprecedented in relation to changes in common sense, Mr Undersecretary, which we were asking for. Well, we didn't get them. We have, fortunately, obtained the approval of an agenda that commits the Government - without the famous critical phrase: \ invites the Government to evaluate Â Â - to address this text to economic criteria, because we also care about the serenity of families from the economic point of view. What worries us about this? We are concerned about the Commission's approach to this issue, and we would not - as we say from now on - want this to be repeated. You see, Mr President, this Government, faced with the great problems that have occurred in recent months - I am referring to the tragedy of the collapse of the bridge in Genoa, as well as other issues - rather than reassuring the country and identifying solutions, has identified an enemy to be overthrown, on which it has discharged the tensions and the possibility of solutions. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We are still waiting for a decree-law on the bridge of Genoa and the first thing that the Government has said is that we must withdraw the concession to Autostrade [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We don't care much about revocation. We would have liked to hear that we would have made the bridge right away. We are still waiting for the decree-law on the bridge of Genoa. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In the same way, we would have expected a reflection on the immediate removal by the Government of the director of the Rebibbia prison in the aftermath of an event that shocked us: a Nigerian inmate kills her children for desperation. I do not go into the substance of the crime, but I would have expected the government not to suspend it, but a question on the subject: is it conceivable that an inmate should atone for the sentence with minors, and minors should be in prison? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Is it not conceivable to identify structures that allow the prisoner to be able to be with the children, to protect their dignity, atonement for the sentence? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This I would have expected, and instead immediately there was the suspension of the head of the Rebibbia. I would also have expected a more reassuring word from the President of the Count Council when his spokesman - we all know - induced a colleague to start a threatening press campaign against the officials of the Ministry because they did not find the money. I wonder one thing, Mr President, and I tell you.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u70	President Schifani, since you are addressing me, I do not have to teach you any relevance to the subject under discussion. I do not need to remind you of this, but perhaps with such a measure it would be appropriate. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups]] I appeal to your intelligence and thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u71	The relevance is there, ma'am. I am simply saying, Mr President, that if Paolo Bonaiuvi, Silvio Berlusconi's spokesman, had uttered those words, the end would have been unleashed, not so much with regard to Paolo Bonaiuvi but with regard to the President of the time Silvio Berlusconi. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] I shall conclude by saying that we condemn the behaviour of the Government on this subject that is dear to our heart and we will vote in favour, but we will be heard by our legislative initiatives. We will bring our proposals to the House and we will check whether there is the will of this Government, or of some government forces, to share our proposals of center-right. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u74	RICCIARDI (M5S). Mr President, Mr Dell'Orco, ladies and gentlemen, before we deal with this very important measure, I would like to tell you a brief story: that of Gaia and her father. Francesco was a great lawyer, but above all the best father in the world, very attached to the family and daughter Gaia, a wonderful creature. In August of a few years ago, Francis was experiencing a very hard working period resulting in severe stress. One Friday morning, after another night without sleep, he greeted his wife, took the baby in his arms and decided to take her to the nest. He opened the car door, put Gaia on the car seat in the back seat and started. It was hot and unbearable. Francesco arrived busy and parked the car in a large space away from the main street. He took the briefcase on the front seat and ran to his office. Little Gaia, therefore, remained in there, under those sheets that within five minutes began to absorb the sun rays, making the car a crematorium oven. At that moment Gaia woke up red in the face and all sweaty. Children at this age don't understand much, but they have a vague idea of the feeling of danger. Gaia began looking for her dad. His ears felt nothing but empty and silent. He began to cry, to complain of that unbearable heat, for that experience he never wanted to live. She was lonely, abandoned, in danger. After fifteen minutes inside the car the heat became asphyxiating, around 50 degrees. She was trapped, glued with her back to the car seat that immobilized her face towards the sun that grew stronger and stronger; her crying was incessant, her body temperature rose more and more. He was busy, he was hungry for air, his breath was accelerated. Then at some point he stopped crying, because he couldn't do it anymore. Gaia was falling asleep for the last time, eaten by the sun, in a glowing car. After seven hours Gaia was no longer breathing, she didn't think. After seven hours Gaia was dead. After eight hours, Dad came out of work, opened the car, did to put behind the briefcase when he saw the scene that a dad would never want to see. He passed out and woke up in the hospital, surrounded by nurses and cops, with a notification for manslaughter. His life was over forever. In fact, Francis never recovered. Ladies and gentlemen, while I was writing this speech, I do not hide that my eyes have become lucid several times. I thought about that creature of God, how much he may have suffered. And I also thought about the parents, but especially the dad. That day died not only Gaia, but an entire family unit. In recent years, not only a dozen children have died in Italy. In recent years, about ten children have died in Italy, plus their families. Over the past 16 years, over 620 children have died for this cause. Only in the United States every ten days a child forgotten in the car dies from a heat stroke. You know what the U.S. government did? He created and broadcast some touching and powerful commercials, which show all the stages of the tragedy, the same stages that I wanted to tell you here today in the Senate. We are talking about tragedies resulting mostly from fatal distractions attributable to stress, to unsustainable working rhythms, to a daily life increasingly suffocating and dominated by a society that is crushing the lives of normal families. Yet, we are talking about easily avoidable tragedies, thanks to the simple introduction of the obligation to install devices to avoid the abandonment of children in cars. In this regard, there was a bill in 2014, as well as a bill already unanimously approved by the House of Deputies. Article 172 of the new road code provides that children of a height of less than one and a half metres must be secured to the seat with a restraint system. With the bill on which we are called to express ourselves, we intervene precisely on this article, providing the obligation for such restraint systems, in order to be equipped with an anti-abandonment alarm device. We are talking about technologies to detect and acoustically signal the presence of children sitting in the car seats when the car door closes. The House of Deputies has already approved to humanity the bill n. 766. In Article 3, the draft law provides that the purchase of these devices can be facilitated by tax concessions, limited in time, in compliance with a subsequent discipline that will establish in concrete terms the above-mentioned facilities. Obviously these technologies will then be made mandatory in the car seats for sale, so as to relieve drivers of the burden associated with the implementation of the bill in question. Moreover, the approval today of the provision in the Senate would allow to respect the deadline of 1 July 2019 previewed for the full effectiveness of the obligation to install the alarm devices, pursuant to the decree ministerial previewed own from the bill n. 766. Some battles have no political color; certain battles must be an example for the community. I look at Gaia and think about my daughter. I'm a normal person, often stressed just like Father Francis. That tragedy could have caught me, as well as any of you. We're flawed, we're weak. We can make mistakes because we're human. I think a child's smile could be worth the cost of a life-saving device. I believe that being able to see my daughter grow up, get married and give birth to my grandchildren may be worth the cost of 100 euros at reduced VAT. Occasions like today's must see us all united, beyond the political color; they must see us state, institutions first and, above all, responsible parents. I declare, Mr President, the 5 Star Movement's vote in favour of this measure. My invitation is to vote not only with the head, but above all with the heart that only a parent can have. Do you realize that in a few moments, by pressing a simple button, you can avoid hyperthermia, cardiac arrest, asphyxiation and even the death of so many children in the next few years? Do you realize the responsibility we are about to assume? Do you realize that Gaia could have been your daughter? Ladies and gentlemen, today you will be able to decide whether or not to prevent the death of the next Gaia. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u75	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill 766, as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[v. Annex B. Live, prolonged applause.]] Consequently, the draft law no. 406, 415, 557, 704 and 767.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that tomorrow's sitting will begin at 4.30 p.m. to allow the 5th standing Commission to conclude its examination of the 2017 and 2018 bill of account and settlement. The deadline for tabling amendments to the House for these measures is 10 a.m. tomorrow. I also inform you that tomorrow, at 9.30 a.m., there will be a meeting of the President of the Senate with the Presidents of the Permanent Commissions and that the Conference of the Leaders will be convened at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u79	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, I would like to draw the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport's attention to the fact that inspection union 3-00044 covers TEN-T networks in the South of the Marche, Abruzzo, Molise and North of Puglia. Since there is a deadline (by 31 December of this year), it is necessary to conclude the investigation activity by the Member State, that is, Italy, against the Commission. Mr President, I would ask you to invite the Minister to come to this House and find this act of inspection union. [[Applause from Senator Ginetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u82	VESCOVI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I also speak on behalf of my colleagues Nisini and Sbrana to report what is happening today in Pisa: a very important fire has involved five hundred hectares and has involved numerous evacuations and the use of three Canadairs. Even the airport of Pisa was closed and 700 are the displaced. I would like to express in this House, for my part, the two colleagues and I think of the whole Group, the greatest closeness and solidarity with the firefighters. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S, FI-BP and PD Groups]] and to all the volunteers who are working to resolve this issue. It's really something - just see the images - of terrifying [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S, FI-BP and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u83	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-39.ana.u84	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, September 26, at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.16 a.m.
