ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 17.10 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting on 6 December. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u3	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Senators, in the night between Friday and Saturday, in Corinaldo, in the Anconetano, a tragic accident involved a group of young people present in a discotheque for a concert. The death toll is very heavy, with five very young lives broken, together with that of a young mother. Many injured, including seven still in serious condition. The investigation is under way and I hope that the judiciary can quickly ascertain all the responsibilities that have led to this terrible tragedy. All over the country there is more than ever a sense of pain and unbelief for the carrying out of an unacceptable massacre to the detriment of teenagers. Music, art and entertainment are an integral part of our lives and, precisely for this reason, it is deeply disturbing to see how a place destined for recreation and for moments of carefreeness has become a mortal trap. This moment of mourning is added to those that the country has had to suffer in recent cases of disruption of the territory and collapse of infrastructures. Anguish in seeing rawly documented the breaking of young lives must lead to inflexible attention for the safety of the places and structures where community life takes place. Therefore, the need for strict verification of the safety of installations and buildings remains a priority, not only because of the obligation to ensure compliance with the rules, but precisely because these places are intended to accommodate people. On behalf of the Senate and my staff, I express my profound closeness to the families affected by this heartbreaking accident and to the entire community of the Marche region and I send my affectionate wish to all the injured. I call on the House to observe one minute's recollection. ( [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u6	(M5S). Mr President, the Movimento 5 Star Group joins the pain for the six victims of the tragedy that took place between Friday and Saturday in a discotheque in Corinaldo, in the province of Ancona, where an evening of fun and joy has turned into a nightmare, due to a stupid joke, bringing to death the five boys between 14 and 16 years old and a young mother who has accompanied and protected her twelve-year-old daughter until the last moments, saving her life. After the days of silence and pain it is time that we all stop to reflect if it is just a society where to earn a few extra euros they fill the premises beyond measure, they sell alcohol and soft drinks to minors, where you spray gas urticante per game, without predicting and imagining all the negative and tragic consequences that these actions can generate. We cannot allow a moment of celebration and reunion for schoolchildren and young children to turn into tragedy. And when the responsibilities are identified with certainty and sanctioned according to the law, the effectiveness of all safety and prevention measures will have to be ensured in a new way, aimed at preventing this from happening again. In the meantime, we can only express our closeness to the parents, family members and acquaintances of the victims, with the awareness that our words will in no way be able to soothe the tragedy of loss, but they represent the firm will of the institutions not to allow them to remain indifferent in the face of the pain caused by this tragedy. At this moment the silence and hope remain that the wounded will recover and can start to live serenely again, as it is right that it is for girls and boys of their age. I conclude by quoting a phrase published on social media by a friend of one of the girls involved: From the concerts you return without a voice, not without a life. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u9	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, you used an expression: 'unacceptable slaughter'. His concussion and words, combined with the emotion of his 5 Star Movimento colleague, show that there are no political boundaries in this House at this time and there are no political parties other than a common sensitivity which is disdainful for what has happened, but which cannot be limited to this. Number of tickets sold in excess of the capacity of the premises, actual security checks at the entrance that have been missing, doubts about the suitability of the emergency exit and the adequacy of the facilities for the evacuation of the spectators, the scheduled start time and the actual one. We all know that while the massacre took place, the rapper who was supposed to be there that night, was still playing in another location. Appropriate number of security personnel, which probably wasn't there; selling alcohol to minors inside the premises. That's all I want to say. The laws are there, they just have to be enforced. Never, as in this case, do not explain that we will make new measures because all the measures that serve the safety of our children are there. Unfortunately - and this is not a problem of today, but of yesterday, and it is certainly not an issue that can be reproached to one another - the actual controls that are fundamental. I hope that from now on, from this moment of common pain, which we live in this House, but much more from the pain of the Marche community, a seed, a flower, can be born, which is that of a common commitment so that, in fact, a senseless logic of profit-seeking cannot prevail over the life and future of our children. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u12	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I too share your words and the words of my previous colleagues. This is the time of mourning for the victims, of the wish for the wounded. We know that there are more than one responsibility in this affair, which cannot happen in a civilized country, and they have been summarized by Senator Casini. This is not the time to deepen them, but it is probably the time to undertake together the commitment that legality and security must really, I do not say return, but perhaps be for the first time, coherently, at the first point of the commitment of each of us, at the different levels; both that of the institutions, local and national, and that of the Forces of Order. We must also be able to build a widespread culture that does not put at the centre - as has already been said - the unscrupulous and economic interest, without respect for anyone, but rather a concept that I am convinced can unite us, of security and legality in all the forms in which the community expresses itself, from that of fun, to that of living, living and working. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u15	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that what happened last weekend should make all of us reflect because I, like each one of you, certainly feel emotional. I am therefore here, of course, to express the condolences of the Brothers of Italy Group, which wants to draw close to the victims, families and those who are still struggling in hospitals for their lives. However, we are not only responsible for this human and understandable role, which surely unites us from right to left, across the board, in this House. Being, legislators, entrusted by the people to manage the country, it is also up to us to reflect and make some considerations. I would like to use a few moments to reflect. We must look at responsibility from a certain point of view; and here we really must hope that the words, which we all express in such situations, are then consistent with an action of the Government, of the Forces of the Order and of the judiciary so that at last the guilty ones are identified and seriously punished and that the controls are not limited only to the next few weeks, when surely the public premises, the discos and theaters will be inspected. On the other hand, we must ensure that controls always take place because, even in a month, six months or a year, we must ensure that our citizens live in safe conditions. Here, then, is the task of the institutions: we must not only remember the problems at such times, but we must ask ourselves why our children are defended and protected in the ordinary. Therefore, responsibility and security do, but not only in the contingent, but, and above all, as a perspective to which we must all look. I, however, add to this reflection another theme, that of ethics, education, an education that, probably, is not enough of everyone's patrimony. We should try to question why 1400 tickets should be sold when the actual seats are just over eight hundred. We should ask ourselves why fathers like us are willing to risk the lives of young people, the lives of citizens, in order to earn some extra tickets. These are not normative aspects, but aspects of ethics, culture and training. We should ask ourselves why parents should live in the anguish that their children, eleven, twelve or thirteen years old, flock to listen to the music of someone who, perhaps singing to sex and drugs, presents them with a picture of life that is certainly not consistent and rich in values, but far from it. Well, in these educational contexts the role of the State, the role of the legislator, the role of those who govern this country must send a message. We must be close to families, to those who raise our children. Brothers of Italy, on these aspects, gives all their willingness to find with you, with all of you, tools that allow - on the one hand - to regulate civil coexistence, to regulate responsibilities and - on the other hand - to create culture, in young people and for young people, and, at the same time, to provide parents and families with those supports that they often do not find today. The children, especially those of the last generations, are all too often abandoned to themselves. We, and those who are a few more years old, have often grown up within families; today children, already from elementary schools, often grow up alone and, not out of malice, but because society often does not allow families to be close to them. And then certain events occur, false idols arrive with sometimes tragic consequences. I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen, hoping for your understanding if I have extended by a few minutes. Since we are now on the eve of the end of the year, let's ensure that, from the beginning, there are controls to ensure, precisely, safety and tranquility. We must not forget - as it has found today the "Corriere della Sera," that, in two years, already twenty-three times similar phenomena have happened, that they have seen involving baby gang and the use of urticanti sprays and, that they have risked to provoke tragedies like that lived in the last hours. Let us commit ourselves because, if we have not been able to do anything to avoid the tragedy of this weekend, at least no more are taking place in the coming months. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u18	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, I agree with your words and those of my fellow Members, and I say first of all that we would never have wanted to have to speak in this House under such circumstances. These are days of mourning for the Marches and for Italy as a whole. In the hospital these hours there are girls and boys fighting to save themselves. We are with them and we mourn with them the broken lives on the night of the Immaculate One: Emma, Asia, Benedict, Daniel, Mattia and Eleonora. Teenagers, as are our children; teenagers full of beauty, intelligence, anxiety, full of desire to live, to run, to experience, as we have been as teenagers. Overwhelmed with them, Mr President, we also mourn a mother, who had just made it in time to save her barely eleven-year-old. A parent like us; we who have often accompanied our children, often waiting hours and hours outside of a club, praying that everything would be fine, as happened to Eleonora before falling. This is a pain without remedy and we will not be able to rewind the tape. That is why, even more so, we have a right to know. We have in our eyes the images of the boys in t-shirts clinging to each other before falling from the balustrade into the dark. Our children, Mr President, have not been protected and we want to know. We want to know, gentlemen of the government. I ask you, and it really strikes me that there is no one in this commemoration today. [[Comments from M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups.]] But we want to know. We want to know if the rules and parameters on the number of people present, on the capacity, on the operation of the security exit, on the time and on the nature of the concert have been violated, because an event, announced at 10 p.m. at midnight, had not yet begun. We want clarification on the sale of alcohol. Our children cannot be treated as an unarmed mass at the mercy of very often cynical, opaque, unscrupulous organizations. And we want to know if it is confirmed that the triggering cause of the massacre was the unholy use of an urticant pepper spray, as already happened in Piazza San Carlo in Turin, as in other concerts, as this morning in a school in Pavia. These urticant sprays are real weapons and, in Italy, their spread is abnormal and dangerous. Since it was liberalised, there have been hundreds of cases of violence linked to its use. Yet there is this huge spread. We even found it a few weeks ago in newsstands, attached to a newspaper, "Free". I have to say that we even found it distributed in political initiatives, as in the case of the League membership banquets, just a few days ago. [[Comments from M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups]] Crazy people (L-SP-PSd'Az). Shame on you! Mr Verducci (PD). I think, Mr President, that all of us... [[Comments from the M5S and League Groups]] That is precisely why - colleagues, I say this forcefully, every word I am using here is weighed and meditated - in all these hours... [[Comments from M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups]] I ask you, Mr President, to be able to finish my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u19	I would not want this commemoration to take on some political coloration. It's a disgrace that affects everyone. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u20	I would ask you, Mr President, to say with force what I think about the use and spread of this weapon, which, although inappropriate, is - indeed - a weapon. I think that this House, all together, should have the strength to say that when the spread of arms increases it not only does not increase security, but increases insecurity, threats and tensions. And there's a way to make... Crazy people (L-SP-PSd'Az). Instrumentalize a story like this! Mr Verducci (PD). As I said, there is a way to honor the victims of Corinaldo by reviewing the regulation on the liberalisation of that spray. Mr President, many of those boys have had heroic courage. Among them - we read it in the chronicles - David, who was able to save so many of his friends and companions, said: we will no longer be the same, our dreams have gone away. But those dreams and that desire for the future we must return it, because in that generation there are the mirror and the conscience of Italy and we cannot allow it to break or be lost. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u23	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the Lega Group recognizes itself in its words of condolence to the families of the victims and in the memory that you have done. We also cling to families who have lost young children or whose children have been injured. As has been well said, this is the time to get close to families; it is the time of mourning and of remembering a tragedy, doing everything to ensure that such events do not happen again in the future. Let us not forget, however, that this is also the time when politics must question itself. We all have to question ourselves - it has been well said by several colleagues - without making political exploitations on the part of anyone. We cannot, however, think that politics should be questioned only about the security measures to be taken, or about the controls to be carried out. That is absolutely true. The laws are already there and they are clear. Rather, let us all question the society and the world that we have all built up to this day. That's the real problem. On the one hand there is the greed of some characters, who want to call themselves entrepreneurs, who, in order to earn more, put at risk the safety of our citizens and young people and that means that there is something that does not work; on the other hand, in the same way, we think of the idiocy that, unfortunately, is spreading among many young people. Beyond the responsibilities (now the judiciary is doing its investigations and, therefore, it is soon to draw conclusions), I do not know if you have seen that in these concerts it is a fashion to spray the urticant spray. It is a fashion to unleash the panic, not far from that of taking extreme selfies - with the risk of dying - or self-suffering by challenge - also this exists in the world of young people - which in turn is not very far from alcohol and drugs that, unfortunately, today - it is useless to hide it - they own it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Fenu]] If this is modern society, let us question ourselves a little, and perhaps this is the work that we should all do in the various Commissions. I can think of Oriana Fallaci's words: If this is civilization, if this is progress, if this is the new world that progress prepares us, I say: give me back the old world, the barbaric world of caves. Give me back the Stone Age. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u26	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to thank you on behalf of the Forza Italia Group for wanting to devote part of the opening of our work to this affair, which has shaken like many others, but perhaps more than others because of the young age of the victims and that mother, who is also the victim of this affair. So it was right for Parliament to reflect on this. I share many of the things that have been said, and I hope that there will not be discussions on new laws that are not needed. I wonder if not only the exhibitors of that local, but also if those who are in charge of controls, the local political and administrative authorities of the State, have a clear conscience. The controls are planned and you can't do events like that. You don't need a law to avoid madness; you have to apply the laws that are there. The tolerances, the indifferences, the superficialities are many, too many, and this tragedy is obviously the result of so many superficiality and inattentiveness. After that, even in these hours I have read many things. I do not know if the tickets were 1,400 or 800, if the seats were 500; surely there was a wretched conduct of those who filled that place with many more people than there could be. I know I don't know the details: if the gates were closed or open, the balustrade and anything else. Everyone suddenly becomes expert in every detail: let those who have to investigate do so and also ascertain the details. But there are things that we know and we have to do. Yesterday, Giulio Rapetti Mogol, president of SIAE, said: let's make electronic tickets. For God's sake, it's okay, but I think that this tragedy, in addition to all the practical aspects, shows that, rather than the chilli, colleague Verducci, it is a bit of salt in pumpkin that would take us all [[Applause from Senator Calderoli]] And that worried me a lot. I don't even know what this singer's name is and it's not his fault what happened, but I read that there was a concert at 10:00, then it was announced in another place at the same time. People were there hours and hours before and maybe drinks: I say "maybe" because so I read and I don't know if it's true. Maybe he's on drugs. Maybe he's on drugs. I don't know if that's true. It creates a crazy climate of collective insanity of kids. What really impressed me is the average age of those attending this concert. I don't know that singer and I read the lyrics of some songs in the newspapers and on the Net today. You have done well - and I say this in a subtle way, ladies and gentlemen - by our colleague, Mr Malan, to expose those texts to the judiciary. When the law against drugs was made, it was also said that the performer cannot chant in songs to certain behaviors. Children's behaviors are more affected by a singer's message - a rapper would say today - than by what we can say, heard by no one in a parliamentary Chamber. This is the modern world. We must then question ourselves. Read the lyrics of those songs, because when I see the parents who went to bring the children of eleven and twelve years - and a mother died - I wonder: did those parents read those lyrics? What models do we give him? I believe that a reflection should be made on this. For the rest there are laws, controls must be relentless and responsibilities must be punished, but then on the content of some events there is no wisdom of state that can replace the wisdom of families, parents, the educational function that each of us has had and has in life. On this I make a call to ourselves. I have no claim to teach anyone anything, but he read some words and some things I wonder about so many of these events, which fortunately did not have tragedies, and what values they instilled. Something we can do: apply all the laws, those for security checks and also for mental security, to which someone is attentive with absolutely wrong messages. [[Applause from the FI-BP, M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u27	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the day of the 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Senate stands as an active part in promoting the completion of the path of civilization that began on 10 December 1948. In thanking the National Committee for the 70th anniversary of the Declaration for its work in recent months - an even more strategic commitment as a function of Italy's election to the United Nations Human Rights Council for the three-year period 2019-2022 - I think it is necessary to focus on one of the qualifying initiatives put in place by this institution. As you know, this House has just concluded the award ceremony of the...Witnesses of Rights competition in the presence of members of the Senate Human Rights Commission and students of the finalist schools of the 2017-2018 edition. With the teachers and the girls and the boys present I was able to share this reflection: The path to full implementation of universal rights is still opposed. Let us think of freedom of thought, religious freedom, the right to health and the right to live in peace in our own country. We need to give a new life to universal rights, we need the passion of children and their intelligence, their enthusiasm. The institutions are with them, because they must support the path to their formation for a strong and conscious citizenship. I am sure that, already starting from the legislative activity planned in the coming weeks, the Senate will be able to live up to the challenges that await us, to complete the path undertaken seventy years ago and that every day is renewed to build an increasingly freer, plural and inclusive society. We have a duty never to lower our guard against any form of racism, xenophobia or discrimination, just as we have a duty never to take for granted the principles and values underlying our Community life and our rule of law. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u28	The next item is: In accordance with Rule 126 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, the President's communication on the content of the draft budget law is in force. Pursuant to that provision, the text approved by the Chamber shall be examined only if the draft budget law contains provisions which conflict with the rules of coverage laid down by the legislation in force. I invite the Senator Secretary to read the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u29	Mr President, I have read the opinion, pursuant to Rule 126 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, on draft law No 981, on the estimates of the State for the financial year 2019 and on the multiannual budget for the three-year period 2019-2021, approved by the House of Deputies: The 5th Permanent Commission, Economic Programming, Budget, examined pursuant to Article 126, paragraph 4, of the Regulation, the draft law containing the budget of the State for the financial year 2019 and the multiannual budget for the three years 2019-2021 and after consulting the representative of the Government, stated that: - the reform of the accounting and public finance law, introduced by the draft budget of August 4, 2016, n. 163, in implementation of Article 15 of the Law of 24 December 2012, n. 243, has brought some significant innovations to the accounting discipline, which concern both the articulation and the content of the public finance maneuver; - with regard to the articulation of the maneuvering budget, it is recalled that they have been merged into a single measure (the draft budget bill), composed of two sections, the contents of the two drafts (stability and budget) which, according to the previous legislation, had to be presented to the Chambers by means of a balance sheet, for which the programme's net balance is to be calculated by means of finance, on the basis of Article 14 of Law n. 243 of 2012, not subject to a rule, but to a rule of balance, for the result, as regards, for the result of the result of the result of the consistency, for the result of the result of the consistency, for which concerns, for the purpose of the outcome of the outcome of the outcome of the outcome of the outcome of the budget, as regards the budget, as regards the budget, as regards the programme as regards the budget, as regards the budget, as regards the budget, as regards the 5th programme, as regards the programme of the programme, which the programme, and the programme, and the budget, and the budget, and the 5th and 5th and 5th, and 5th and 5th, and 5th and 5th and 5th.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u30	In the light of that opinion, draft law No 981 (State budget for the financial year 2019 and multiannual budget for the three-year period 2019-2021) is referred to the 5th Permanent Commission in the contact person with the opinion of all the Permanent Commissions. The Commissions are therefore authorised to convene immediately and to supplement their agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u31	On the basis of international commitments, the President of the Council of Ministers asked that communications be brought forward tomorrow, at 3.30 p.m., with a view to the European Council of 13 and 14 December 2018, already scheduled for Wednesday 12 December at the same time. Therefore, as already communicated in the short way to the Groups, pursuant to Rule 55, paragraph 6, of the Rules of Procedure, the schedule of proceedings is modified with the inclusion of tomorrow's sitting, Tuesday 11 December, at 15.30.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u34	MANTOVANI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking to bring to the attention of this House the tragedy that happened last night in Reggio-Emilia. At number 33 in Via Turri, where there are buildings and adjoining cellars inhabited for a long time, a fire has flared up in which two people have lost their lives. Thirty-eight people who are intoxicated by smoking, including a child who is in very serious condition. Another child and two adults are in very severe poisoning conditions and another five adults and six children are hospitalized for observation at the hospital. To them and to their loved ones lies the immediate thought and deep mourning for a tragedy unfortunately announced and on which it is necessary to reflect. Since 2014, citizens of the neighborhood, the Movimento 5 Stars and local newspapers have been telling about an area forgotten by the administration of Mayor Luca Vecchi. On 14 September 2015, the Movimento 5 Stars presented an agenda at the Municipal Council, followed by an October question asking for updates on redevelopment interventions and information on the status of the plants. The following year, journalistic surveys focused on the cellars - dormitory, highlighting the limits of the junta Vecchi in the management of immigrants. On May 8, our Councillor Gianni Bertucci presented an urgent agenda on a fire raged at number 43 in a building in which it was not only the home but also the connection to the electricity grid. On that occasion an extraordinary plan of control and verification of utilities was requested. According to the representative of the Moroccan community, who unfortunately belonged to the victims, it has been known for years that those structures are occupied by abusers and no one has done anything. Those people are victims of degradation and ill-managed integration policy. In order to avoid these incidents there is no need for the rules provided for in the new safety decree; it is enough only to apply the rules already in force against degradation and illegality. The responsibilities of what has happened lie with the inertia of the administration, with those who were to control and have not checked, with those who were to supervise and have not monitored. My hope, therefore, is that certain situations, caused by the ignorance of those who must enforce the laws of the State, will no longer be allowed, neither in Reggio Emilia, nor in other areas of the country, precisely because these tragedies must no longer happen. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u37	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, I would just like to say that today we have had the very serious news that the stones of stumbling have been stolen in Rome, that is to say the stones of memory throughout Europe, and also in Italy, of the victims of the persecution of the Shoah. It is a very serious act which obviously affects the whole of the Italian Parliament and which must immediately make us think. In particular, there is above all to understand what exactly happened: if it is the act of some imbecile, who has found nothing better to do; if it is the act of some criminal, who thinks of lucrating even on such a serious issue; if it is an act of will anti-Semitism and, if so, of what matrix it is and by whom it has been accomplished. Recently, the Centre for Political and Strategic Studies Machiavelli, by Fiamma Nirenstein, recalled that anti-Semitism is a growing scourge in Italy and Europe. To the "historical" one, let's call it so, of extreme right matrix, we went to add that of extreme left matrix, going to confuse the plans of anti-Zionism and adversity to Israel with that of anti-Semitism; recently, and still much more serious, we have added that of Islamic matrix, which has actually also led to deaths, persecution and massacres in Europe. That is why I hope that the competent authorities will be able to act immediately to shed light on this serious incident. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Bonfrisco.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u38	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-69.ana.u39	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Tuesday 11 December, at 3.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.59 p.m.
