ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.36 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 8 November. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: On 9 November 2018 Mr President, I inform you that the President of the Republic, by his own decree, adopted today on my proposal, has accepted the resignations resigned by the President of the Republic. Dr. Mr Maurizio FUGATI from the post of State Secretary for Health. ==References====External links==
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u4	I inform you that the President of the Senate and the President of the Chamber of Deputies have appointed members of the Parliamentary Committee on Regional Affairs and of the Parliamentary Committee on Monitoring the Activities of Authorities of Compulsory Forms of Social Welfare and Welfare. The list of members of these committees will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u5	I greet on behalf of the Assembly the Secretary-General and the officials of the Parliament of Montenegro and the officials of the OSCE, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u6	The President of the Commission, Senator Coltori, has the floor to report on the work of the 8th and 13th Commissions.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u7	Mr President, my fellow Senators, the 8th and 13th Commissions have begun to examine the amendments this afternoon, after receiving the opinions provided for in the Rules of Procedure, an examination which has not yet been concluded. We hope, however, that the vote on the mandate will be taken to report to the House of Rapporteurs by this evening or tomorrow at the latest in the first morning. I therefore ask, with the unanimous agreement of the Groups represented in the Commissions, that the examination in the Chamber of the bill of conversion of the decree-law on Genoa and the other emergencies be started tomorrow morning at 10.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to what Senator Coltorti has said, I refer the debate on the draft law back to tomorrow's sitting, which will begin at 10.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u11	SACCONE (FI-BP). Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important for this House to focus on what is happening in the Middle East. In the last two days, the State of Israel is undergoing a violent rocket launch by Hamas. So far, more than 400 rockets have been launched from Gaza. These rockets are deadly and cause considerable damage. If the number of deaths has been limited, despite the many injuries, it is mainly due to the ability of the Israeli defensive system to intercept rockets. Despite this, unfortunately, there has been a victim, a Palestinian who works in Israel. His wife has also been seriously injured and is currently hospitalized in an Israeli hospital. It is not my intention to open a debate on the issue, on the calculation of the deaths on both sides or on the ongoing conflict, which, moreover, seemed destined for a lasting armistice, aimed at getting gas and even money from Qatar to Gaza. My intention is to bring to this House the drama that hundreds of thousands of unarmed and unarmed citizens are experiencing, which because of these hostile acts are forced to live barricaded and locked in their homes. In Israel life is suspended. Allow me to denounce the silence of the international institutions and the silence of the European Union, in particular the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs, Federica Mogherini, who - we regret to note - has not yet stigmatized Hamas' bloody action against Israeli civilian populations. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Our public opinion and our fellow citizens must have the opportunity to get to know the events in progress, but unfortunately very few news reports have told us of the very hard attack that the citizens of the South of Israel are suffering, with the high risk, as announced and threatened by Hamas, of a large-scale action. We call on the Italian Government and, above all, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, firstly, to stigmatise what Hamas has done and to put in place the necessary acts in order to put an end to the fire and to prevent the escalation of the conflict in that area. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u14	BONFRISCO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Saccone's speech introduces an issue on which it is right to draw the attention of this House and also of our Government, because over the last forty-eight hours the Hamas terrorist organization has launched, as has already been said, more than 400 missiles against Israel, indiscriminately launched against unarmed civilians. They hit a bus, which was taken in full, seriously hurting an Israeli, and many buildings in various cities. In Ashkelon, as Senator Saccone, a Palestinian, who worked in Israel, just recalled, died, struck by the missile while sleeping. Hamas now threatens to widen the range of its missiles and also hit cities like Ashdod and Beersheva. There are a hundred Israelis hospitalized for serious injuries resulting from missile attacks and trauma. The fact that there are not dozens of deaths (and hopefully there will not be deaths) is not the result of chance, but of the fact that Israel invests billions in the protection of its citizens, both through the Irondom missile system, that building safe shelters in every Israeli building. Yesterday and tonight the Israeli citizens of the South of the country spent all their time safe in the shelters and today, in several cities in the South of the country, everything is closed, including schools and jobs. Israel has the right to defend itself and to protect the security of its citizens, and all this happens when Israel has demonstrated its intention to reach a ceasefire agreement, allowing Qatar to transfer gas, money and resources to Gaza. I think that Italians cannot remain indifferent to what is happening and I believe that the Government must take the most appropriate diplomatic action as soon as possible. I would like to thank Mr Salvini, who has already had the courage to organize his own visit and his own journey to Israel: this shows that he is truly close to the Israeli people, to their history, to their persecutions and to what they continue to suffer. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u17	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, the subject is the same, so I will not repeat the arguments, the same as mine, just expressed by Senator Bonfrisco, which, moreover, take back on time the information we are receiving from the Israeli agencies and the Israeli embassy itself. I am simply saying, Mr President, that our solidarity must not be in a way. I believe that very often we forget the condition in which Israeli citizens live, that very often the right to defend the Israeli people and the State of Israel is undermined and underestimated and that only when things like this happen do we remember that the good right, even of the Palestinians, to have a homeland has nothing to do with extremism (and also pro-Islamic) that is the basis of those who are launching rockets against the territory of Israel. I ask the government for a strong and clear word: sometimes, equidistance has its own logic; in this case, silence would be scandalous. I therefore appeal to the Government to take a clear stand in defence of the good right to the existence of Israel and its people. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u20	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, I think it is necessary to draw your attention and that of my fellow Members to two events which have taken place in recent days, which have to do with what we believe to be a fundamental right of citizens in a democratic country like ours. I am referring to the right to challenge those who exercise political power, or to express their thoughts freely. As you will know and as colleagues will know, last Saturday thousands of people were stopped at the toll booths, at the gates of Rome, while they were going to an anti-racist demonstration convened to criticize the measure that the Senate recently approved, at first reading, on immigration. The participants of the event have been subjected to searches and controls, which have been prolonged for hours and which have appeared to all of us and to many observers also of the world of information absolutely unmotivated, arbitrary and disproportionate. Yesterday - and this fact has had even more publicity - a lady, who was near the University LUMSA in Rome and who had left her home for other reasons, verbally contested the Minister of the Interior, who was passing before her. Well, after this dispute, the woman was confronted in a bad way, with an unruly aggression, by police officers in the bourgeoisie, taken away from where she was and finally led to the police station and denounced because - this has been said - she would not have presented immediately the documents that had been asked for. Mr President, we believe that these are facts for which we need to be very concerned: they are indicative of a climate that we do not want to continue. We believe that such incidents are not only unmotivated, but in contrast to two fundamental articles of our Constitution: Article 17 and Article 21. Finally, we believe that events such as those mentioned cannot go through silence and require a strong political initiative. This morning we put a question to the Minister for the Interior, and so did my colleague, Head of the PD, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the House. We want this to be discussed in the institutional fora, but in the meantime it seemed necessary to inform you and the House of our great concern about the events that have taken place, that we do not want them to be part of a climate that is inspired. We believe that it is necessary to clarify this, because in democracy the right to express its dissent, the right to challenge those who have to exercise government responsibility and the right not to be brought to the police station and not to be subjected to unmotivated searches and unmotivated checks if you do so, must be a right on which no one has doubts and which is in no way limited and subject to coercion. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u21	On behalf of the Assembly I greet the students of the State University of Milan, Faculty of Law and Communication Sciences, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u24	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, in Milan there is a large area called Porto di Mare: 34 hectares abandoned for many years that the Municipality of Milan, together with Italia Nostra, in recent years has provided for the restoration and reorganization of a park. Two hectares remain to be settled: the sadly famous, famous news, Boschetto di Rogoredo, a reality that hides two shopping squares, reference for the whole Lombardy Region. An unacceptable spectacle in a city or anywhere else. In order to allow the restoration of these last two hectares and to make available to the citizens also the entire park of Rogoredo, we asked the Minister of the interior - the mayor of Milan, many city councilmen and political forces have done so for a long time - to make available to the forces of order necessary to allow the last part of this park to be healed, so that the grove of Rogoredo is destroyed and healed and there is the possibility to expel the sale from that area. At the same time, the Minister of the Interior, answering a question to the House, had undertaken to guarantee a garrison of the Polfer, in order to guarantee the safety of the station of Rogoredo, obviously interested from these traffics and routes. Mr President, we have put a question - and I am now speaking - to which we have not received an answer from the Ministry of the Interior and we insist that we have it, because, beyond everything, the chatter and the proclamations, an interior minister must also deal with how to ensure the safety of citizens, in this case of the district of Rogoredo, giving them peace and the possibility of living and also guaranteeing the possibility of creating a new green space, permanently freed by drug dealers. I therefore ask you, Mr President, to ask for an answer on this point and possibly an intervention by the Ministry of the Interior to accompany those who are currently working on the rehabilitation of that area, knowing that, with the sale so present, they will hardly be able to do so alone, without a fixed garrison of the Forces of the Order. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u27	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to speak about the serious, new information relating to the investigation of environmental pollution and the omission of reclamation in Valnestore, Umbria, what the press unfortunately called the Umbrian fire valley. I would like to remind you that this area has already been the subject of a parliamentary inspection visit by the Committee of Inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle and environmental offences related to them in the previous parliamentary term, thanks to my colleagues Mr Candiani and Mr Arrigoni. In recent days fundamental news has been learned from the press, the first of which is that, according to the superperitia that the prosecutor commissioned Professor Boeri, water and wheat are polluted by ashes buried in that area; an important and vast area: 77 withdrawal points in an area of 15 square kilometers confirm the heavy pollution denounced for years by the population, committees and on which the prosecutor is investigating. There is a certain fact and, at this point, there is a question that remains and that asks answer: the municipal administrations members of the company Development Valnestore and the administrators knew or did not? Did ENEL or did she not know, especially during this affair, that it lasted for years? Well, my colleague Mr Arrigoni had obtained from the Bureau of the bicameral Commission on the environment that the Commission itself drafted for Umbria - alas considered green, but which for some events so green is not - an express report. The closure of the previous legislature prevented it. We will strongly demand that the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle and the related environmental offences which will also be set up tomorrow, which will start again from there with the new facts, with the new kidnappings that took place last Friday and that we finally have a response, a response that the administrations owe and to which citizens are entitled. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u30	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, we are following with great apprehension what is happening in these hours in Palermo, where a conference is being held on which the Government has focused a large part of its international political game. Even the oppositions and we at Forza Italia had hoped that things could go for the best. A few days ago we found ourselves in the embarrassing situation of seeing that some leaders had given their support to this conference, and then denied it and therefore we understood the difficulties that could have occurred. Today, unfortunately, we have confirmation of a failure or, at least, a risk of failure at the conference. In fact, in the ritual photography of political leaders, gathered at Villa Igia for the conference on Libya, there are two large absent: At Sisi, the President of Egypt, and the Field Marshal Khalifa Haftar, who has, however, made important statements, which I believe this House should take very carefully into account. In fact, they are a warning not only for the other Arab countries (especially the African countries, on the southern border of Libya), but also for Italy. What did Haftar say? He said that the tragedy of uncontrolled immigration must be stopped at its origin and called on the countries in southern Libya to be able to intervene firmly. We, like Italy, must have the same care and commitment. President Berlusconi and, to follow, President Tajani have spoken repeatedly for years about the importance of a Marshall plan for Africa. Here, we must go in that direction, especially at this moment, when we have seen what has happened in these hours in Palermo and given the problems with Libya, I think it is also important for Italy to do its duty and control the southern border of the Mediterranean with greater attention. Of course, Forza Italia is cheering for things to be okay, but the problems that have emerged are obvious and before everyone's eyes. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u33	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, these hours in Yemen are fighting a crucial and extremely bloody battle for the conquest of the port city of Hodeidah. The port is one of the few access routes for humanitarian aid that alleviate the suffering of a population forced to hunger by the Saudi-led coalition embargo. In particular, I would like to recall little Amal, seven years old, starved and I would say of indifference, a symbol of this horror. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Over the last 48 hours, more than 150 people have died, including civilians. It is a carnage that must end and that we must strongly condemn. The whole world has rightly outraged the killing of Khashoggi at the hands of Saudi assassins. How can we remain silent in the face of a war that has been going on for years, with immense suffering for the Yemeni population? How could the local media dedicate first pages to the tree called Spellacchio and completely ignore those who die under the bombs? What are the mainstream information gentlemen going to do this year? Will they continue to talk about the Christmas tree of Rome to hit the Rays or will they begin to deal with this topic? The cholera epidemic is causing thousands of civilians to die. Infrastructures such as hospitals and connecting routes, but also places of concentration such as markets, mosques and inhabited centres are systematically affected, causing the death of many civilians and the disruption of vital services. The European Parliament called for an initiative to be launched to impose an EU arms embargo on Saudi Arabia, while UN Secretary-General Guterres has condemned Saudi raids over and over again. If Khashoggi was suffocated and torn to pieces by his torturers, in the silence of a room of a Saudi consulate in Turkey, Yemen too was suffocated and torn to pieces by an unsustainable embargo and endless violence, in the silence of governments and international public opinion. This cannot be acceptable, especially for us who have sold large quantities of weapons to Saudi Arabia. In the immediate future, a truce is needed to help the wounded and rescue the civilians of a city under siege for months. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure the transit of humanitarian aid to the Yemeni population. According to the UN there are 14 million people in precarious conditions, of these two million are children. Finally, Mr President, the awareness of what is happening in Yemen is growing and I call on our Government to take decisive action within the international bodies to which it belongs. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u36	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, I have asked for the floor to make the voice of the hundreds of journalists who have spoken today in over twenty cities in Italy also heard in this House. They were many, often precarious or underpaid, to manifest behind a banner that said: "No gag". To say no to prevarications, abuse, very often under track, but very often posters, shamefully manifest, as those who brought on Saturday even the Vice President of the Council and a leading exponent of the Movimento 5 Stars to define journalists with very serious and unrepeatable words - "sciacalli", "cani da reporto" and "puttane" - only for having carried out the sacred duty of reporting, the sacred right to inform. Those voices today have manifested not to be silenced, for the freedom of information that is as fundamental in democracy as the air we breathe. They protested to say no to the threat of cuts to the Publishing Fund. These are not cuts to the great newspapers, to the so-called newspapers; no, President, they are exigent cuts to voices of community, neighborhood, associations, very often parishes or lay people who keep our countries and our territories alive. We want to say 'no' to these attacks and intimidations that taste like squadrism: democracy without free press simply does not exist. We were in those squares today with those who manifested and will continue to be so for our democracy, our Parliament and our fellow citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u39	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking in this House, in line with the words of my colleagues in the Democratic Party, to give news: we have been brought into play, but we strongly say that we have never been against it, but we are and will always be defending freedom of the press and free journalists, those who criticize us and will continue to criticize us, when they consider it, but on the substance of things. Unlike those who build offensive and abusive press campaigns - it would even be hateful - against us because they represent partisan interests, conditioned by prejudices and linked by a mixture that has become unsacrifice, President, to a block of power that with its conflicts of interest has massacred Italy and is in favour of maintaining the status quo. To those colleagues who mentioned the 5 Star Movimento just before, I would like to say that over the past two years we have witnessed almost daily attacks on the person of our mayor Virginia Raggi, mayor of all the citizens of Rome, vulgar innuendos (which are often forgotten), alleged gossip on his private life. The great press, right and left, told the story of the Capitol by passing the 5 Star Administration for a group of criminals, when you are in up to your necks, and you have also been in the past, in all the events - even the worst - of this Capital: what is really bad. I say to you, for example, President, some titles that have come out: "Capital corrupted." Infected crickets and the mayor himself has been called the "goose of the Capitol"; The Rays glued to the armchair. ==References====External links==* Official website The 5 Star Movimento is with Virginia rays and with the entire Capitoline administration, engaged in an improbable task to recover decades of disasters that you have left. Well, we do not accept this indignation of yours. Mr Verducci (PD). How dare you? Everyone has freedom of the press. Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, those who do not agree can leave the Chamber, as the Democratic Party did in the event of the cut of the vitality. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. Mr Perilli (M5S). This majority has been in the government for five months and is facing an unprecedented array of antagonistic news headlines. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Every day avalanches of accusations, lies, falsehood, manipulation of facts and you still have the courage to say that the Movimento 5 Stars is against the press, against freedom of the press. VERDUCCI (PD).You've taken care of everything! Mr Perilli (M5S). We are in favour - I repeat - of a free press. Mr Verducci (PD). You've taken care of the whole RAI! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let him finish. Mr Perilli (M5S). Of this situation, not only the voters of the Movimento 5 Stars, but everyone who believes in the same principles has come up with a clear idea, beyond what we want to get through in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u42	VESCOVI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would just like to point out what happened in the Tuscan municipality of Scandicci, whose mayor authorized the Education Councillor to use the tricolor band for advertising by a private company, Benetton SpA. We have presented some exhibits and we have also found circular n. 5 of November 1998 of the Ministry of the Interior that prohibits the use of the tricolor band for commercial and advertising purposes. I would like to represent to the Senate and to you this episode, in my opinion not institutional, especially because Benetton society is called into question. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u43	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-57.ana.u44	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 14 November, at 10.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.15 p.m.
