ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:38 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, you can't photograph in the Chamber. Okay? AIROLA (M5S). It was a mistake. PACIFIC (M5S). It was just a lamp. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u6	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I asked to make this speech because, during yesterday's sitting, Senator Airola, among other things, repeatedly urged by his Parent Company (but also by myself), decided to speak on a matter which has been going on for a few weeks and which has already been brought to the attention of the Assembly by the Democratic Party. This is a very unpleasant episode, which I would not like to create a precedent and which, in my view, has also created the conditions for a difficult climate within the Assembly, during which Senator Airola had the opportunity, right here in front of me, at the opposition benches, not simply to offend colleagues during a reasoning or in the dialectic emphasis, but to threaten - I stress: threaten - one of our colleagues in the Democratic Party. Yesterday, Senator Airola, to whom I have to say that the word has been given with ample time, pretended - let me say this, Mr President - to apologise to the Democratic Party and to Mr Laus and, indeed, used much more than the time he had available to raise criticism and, if I may, even offended. The Democratic Party is opposed to this way of proceeding, with which we take advantage of the rules of this House and try to create mechanisms and misunderstandings, clearly underlined yesterday. Yesterday was the day for apology: Senator Airola did not apologise, on the contrary, he emphasized his positions and did not expressly do what we agreed he would do, that is to say apologise to certain threats expressed in this House. Mr President, there is the debate, there are the high tones, there are also the climate, the confusion and the political conflict in the country and in this House, but this is the House of debate and debate. This is Parliament. I believe that at a time when we do not have the strength, the determination, the will to punish offenses, which means preventing a colleague from expressing his opinion freely within this House, we go further. So, Mr President, I would like to ask you what I have asked for in the past and what we have actually sent back together, convinced that Senator Airola would understand his attitude and act accordingly. It has not done so, which is why we call for the convocation of the bodies responsible to deal with this matter properly. You cannot accept threats in the Senate Chamber. It's objectively a shame. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u7	The Presidency will assess all behavior.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u8	The Conference of Leaders approved changes to the current calendar and the new agenda for the Assembly's work until 13 September 2018. In today's session, after the conclusion of the decree-law of reorder Ministries, the questions referred for a preliminary ruling on the decree-law extend terms and the draft law of constitution of the anti-mafia investigation committees and waste cycle will be discussed. On tomorrow's day, the Assembly will not hold a sitting to allow the work of the Commissions, especially the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Budget on the Decree-Law extending time limits. The examination of the latter measure will begin at the sitting of Thursday, 2 August, to continue Friday, 3 and possibly Monday, 6 August. It remains confirmed for the 15 hours of Thursday 2 August the development of the question time. Next week the Assembly will hold sessions, without closing hours, Monday 6 from 11 a.m. and Tuesday 7 from 9.30 a.m. In addition to the possible follow-up to the decree-law extension terms, the decree-law dignity workers and enterprises will be discussed. The Commissions will resume their work, after the summer break, from Tuesday 4 September, while the Assembly will return to meet again on Tuesday 11 September, at 16.30, with the discussion of proposals for parliamentary inquiry on Il Forteto, on seismic events in L'Aquila and on feminicide, where concluded by the Commissions. However, the Commission shall be authorised to convene at any time in relation to any need arising in matters within its competence.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u9	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes and additions to the current calendar and the new calendar of the Assembly until 13 September 2018: [[Tuesday, July 31 h. 9,30-20 - Following bill No. 648 - Decree-Law No. 86, reorder Ministries (final vote by August 11) (decades on September 10) - Preliminary questions on the draft law No. 717 - Decree-Law No. 91, extension of term - Drawing of law No. 689 and related - Institution Anti-Mafia Investigation Commission (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (by the drafting house) - Drawing of law No. 627 and related - Institution Commission of inquiry cycle waste (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (by the drafting office) - Drawing of law No. 717 - Decree-Law No. 91, extension of term (final vote by August 24) (decades on September 23) (from Thursday, August 2) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Article 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday, 2, 15) Thursday, 2 August h. 9,30-20 Friday 3 "H. 9,30 - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151-bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday, 2, 15) Thursday, 9.30-20]] On Wednesday 1 August the Assembly will not hold a meeting to allow the work of the Commissions. Amendments to bill No 717 (Decree-Law No 91, extension of time) should be tabled by 7 p.m. on Tuesday 31 July. [[Monday, August 6, h. 11 - Eventually followed bill 717 - Decree-Law No 91, extension of deadlines (final vote by August 24) (decades on September 23) - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 87, dignity workers and enterprises (where approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (decades on September 11) Tuesday 7 " h. 9.30]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law n.... (Decree-Law n. 87, dignity of workers and businesses) will be set in relation to the timing of transmission by the Chamber of Deputies. The Commission will resume its work on Tuesday 4 September and the Assembly will meet again on Tuesday 11 September. However, the Commission shall be authorised to convene at any time in relation to any need arising in matters within its competence. [[Tuesday, September 11 h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 536 - Institution Commission of inquiry into the events occurred at the community "Il Forteto" (from the writing site) (where concluded by the Commission) - Doc. XXII, No 11 - Institution Committee of Inquiry into the L'Aquila earthquake (from the drawing up site) (where concluded by the Commission) - Doc. No XXII, nos. 1, 8 and 9 - Institution Committee of Inquiry into Femicide (from the drawing up office) (where concluded by the Commission) Wednesday 12" h. 9.30-20 Thursday 13" h. 9.30-20]] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 648 (Decree-Law No 86, Reorder Ministries) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1h 13' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 717 (Decree-Law No 91, extension of deadlines) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1h 13' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 87, dignity of workers and businesses) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1h 13' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u10	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law 648.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u11	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u13	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our Brothers of Italy Group on this measure has always maintained an attitude of great attention and willingness towards the majority forces. We have shown this both in this House and in the Commission, with an open attitude to confrontation, and we have done so because we wanted to be consistent with what we said in this House during the debate on trust in the Count Government. On that occasion, we announced that we would judge on the merits the government's measures and avoid an opposition made of meaningless prejudices and obstructions. We kept what we said. Although we often have a very critical attitude towards the Government, we recognize the right of majorities, to any majority, to organize themselves from an institutional point of view in order to better deploy their political agenda. If it is also necessary to change the organisation of the Ministries, this must not be the subject of scandal. We have some doubts - and we say this with the same frankness - about the use of the decree-law, because in addition to an institutional need, you should admit that it is honest to say that there is also a need for a party to balance within the majority. It is not something that should be scandalized, because politics is also made of this: the League has the need to strengthen the delegations in the head of its Minister and equally wants to make the Movimento 5 Stars. That these reasonings, that these premises justify a decree-law of necessity and urgency in my opinion is very doubtful and to those who speak appeared very doubtful also the justifications that we have listened above all to from the Senators benches of the Movimento 5 Stars, that in the past years have criticized the use, and perhaps also the abuse, of the decrees of urgency. This is certainly not the place to reopen a debate on these issues, but we wanted to point it out. On the substance, we believe that there are three fundamental issues on which we want to sum up our attitude. The first concerns the establishment of the Ministry for Family and Disabilities. We have listened above all to the voices of the Left's opposition that the establishment of this Dicastery is useless, but we think it is very useful. We think it is necessary not only to create a Ministry for the Family and Disabilities, but also to strengthen the delegations within it, giving the right tools and also the appropriate funding, because the family must return to the centre of Parliament's policy and of all political forces. And not only the family, but also the issue of adoptions, disability and births must be central, because it is not true that you do not have children because you do not want to; you do not do and the birth rate decreases because often families are unable to bear the expenses. The colleagues of the Group who have spoken have remembered our project for a great extraordinary plan of birth that passes through tools that we have declined also with bills that offer discounts for purchases for families, free kindergartens open until 18 hours and many other things. For those who speak it is also fundamental the issue of adoptions, but it is important, colleagues of the Government and the majority, that you clarify what you mean by family, because on this we have listened to reasonings, taken very different positions not to say contradictory. For us, the family is the natural one provided for in the Constitution, which does not discriminate against anyone but demands centrality and priority. It is the one composed of a mother and a father, not the one for which the mayor of Torino Appandino has planned the registration also for the children born of a couple composed of parents of the same sex. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] On this we expect clarity soon, because you cannot play on these topics. You said that ethical issues remained outside the perimeter of the program agreement, but they are so important that they come from the window every day and we will watch over it. Secondly, the approximation of the competences of tourism to the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy and, more generally, the creation of a Ministry dedicated to Made in Italy was, like that of the family, our electoral and government proposal. We are therefore pleased that this proposal also finds hospitality within the majority programme. We have some doubts about the fact that tourism and agriculture together can function as in the intentions that we consider worthy. The defence and promotion of Made in Italy must be absolutely central, because for too long we have witnessed without doing anything about the invasion of products that had nothing Italian and the dequalification of the image of our country, especially abroad. However, we must be clear in saying that agriculture and tourism go hand in hand, that agriculture cannot cannibalise tourism, because it is not just agri-food promotion. Doing tourism is not only defending the infinite agro-food excellences of our country. Making tourism is promoting an entire country system and promoting an immense wealth, which is also of an economic nature. I would therefore like to say (in a way that may seem provocative, but that it is not), in a proactive way, that perhaps, if we were to imagine a centrality of a Ministry dedicated to the defence and promotion of Made in Italy, that Ministry should be incardinated in the Ministry of Economic Development. Tourism, in fact, is a great economic asset, it is not only promoting and defending cultural values and cultural and agri-food goods; it is also hotel promotion, it is an immense supply chain, which creates wealth for our territory and which unfortunately is not yet fully used. I would like to appeal to Minister Centinario regarding the promotion of Made in Italy and the Italian brand. Who speaks, like others who have spoken before me, comes from an experience as a local and regional administrator; it is very sad to see often, in international fairs, that the Regions, the Municipalities, the big cities propose themselves to the international market without using the Italian brand, which is one of the most prestigious and known brands in the world. It is madness and it is a waste that the Regions, municipalities and countries of this nation go to international fairs without the direction of ENIT, without the direction of the Ministry of Tourism, trusting in the fact that constitutional reform has given them a power... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u14	Those who are not interested in listening can leave the Chamber: there is too much buzz.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u15	CIRIANI (FdI). I said, Mr President, that it is a pity, almost an outrage to our country, that ENIT, the Ministry of Tourism does not coordinate, often not because of you, the international initiatives of our Regions and our Municipalities abroad; in fact, giving up the Italian brand and proposing without it is a self-injury nonsense. I therefore hope that the new Minister will be able to coordinate the activities of the regions in this direction as well. The last point, and I shall conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is the remodulation of the tasks of the Ministry of the Environment. Personally - but I await the denial, because we are absolutely secular - I have some doubts that the reassignment to the Ministry of the Environment of the tasks of defence of the soil and of contrast to the hydrogeological failure can work, because we have already seen it at work and the precedents are not encouraging. If the functions were brought under the auspices of the President-in-Office of the Council in recent years, it was not for ideological or political reasons, but because it was trying to give more strength and greater impetus to this activity, so that it could also coordinate what the other Ministries did. The Ministry of the Environment, from this point of view (but it is my personal opinion), has not given degrees of evidence in the past; we hope that you can deny us in the future. Our vote will therefore be in favour, despite the concerns, criticisms and suggestions we have made in this House. We have kept our promise of a critical, but transparent and coherent attitude, in the hope that these openings of trust and credit can bring, for our benefit and for the entire country, the results hoped for as soon as possible. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Rufa.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u18	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, my group's colleagues, who have spoken in general debate and are carrying out the minority report, have already explained well the reasons why we are voting against the conversion of this decree-law into law. It is the first act of the new Government, of the Government of Change. Perhaps we must begin to understand that the concept of change is not neutral and is not necessarily positive, especially if, as in this measure, it consists in interrupting experiences that they have given and were giving positive results, without explaining the reasons and without explaining how we want to work to achieve the public interest objectives that the structures that the Government is erasing had to pursue. In short, in this discussion you have not explained the reasons for the cancellation of mission units, the movement of the Ministry of Tourism from the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism to the Ministry of Agriculture. If this decree-law serves only to show that you want to mark a difference from the last governments, it is a weak and wrong choice. If it is not explained to us why those choices were not good and, above all, what would be the choices that would allow us to take advantage of the problems more effectively in the interests of the citizens, the choice that we are making, that you are making, is a weak choice. No one can deny that for our country there is a close connection between culture and tourism, that the unique and extraordinary beauties and the historical heritage of Italy are an attraction for international tourism. It's all clear. Then why do you decide to remove tourism from MIBACT? I have heard Minister Centinario say these days that the significant increase that tourism has had in recent years is not due to Expo or the promotion of Italian culture in the world. I am concerned if the Minister who will have to deal with tourism has not noticed that Pompeii, the Palace of Caserta and a thousand other opportunities that have facilitated access and expanded the cultural offer have been an extraordinary flywheel for tourism. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Despite this, choose to change, to bring tourism to the Ministry of Agriculture in the name of Italian food excellences. A choice that does not stand, wherever you look at it, especially since before voting on this measure, the Government, in the Commission, has already claimed that it wants to build a new Ministry shortly. Moving on to something else, even the decision to cancel mission units on the hydrogeological failure and Casa Italia makes no sense, especially if it is not clear - and it is not - how the Government intends to equip itself to meet two urgent needs to avoid future disasters to the country. The mission units were aimed at accelerating hydrogeological rehabilitation and safety measures against the seismic risk of housing heritage from schools. In these years, in those places, he has operated well. Experience and professionalism have been built, a strong capacity for relationship and involvement of local authorities has been achieved over the years, not to mention the fact that those structures have guaranteed transparency and full control of the use of the resources allocated. Now a path is interrupted without reason, without explaining it, with the risk of dispersing the skills and experiences formed in the field, but above all it is not given to know who and how will continue and will take care of the projects in existence. I am thinking of the project to avoid the flood of Seveso, I am thinking of the project to safeguard the city of Genoa, I am thinking of the many projects of Casa Sicura, projects that I believe no one in this House considers useless or wrong. But how will they be managed? Who's gonna run them? You don't have to know that. Finally, the decree-law chooses to renounce the idea of coordinating all ministries that can intervene on disability - Presidency of the Council, Ministry of Health, Labour, Education - to address that issue by thinking about the life of people with disabilities in every aspect and not just about care. Delivering the theme to the only minister of the family goes back to an extraordinary cultural change that was being produced. Mr President, this decree-law confirms that the new Government interprets change by looking back, not forward. It promotes the return to the past, not innovation. It does so when its most important representatives speak with nostalgia of return to the national states, closed outside and self-sufficient. This is what Minister Salvini does when he speaks of so many enemies, so much honor, evoking dramatic seasons for our country, and he does so by bringing us back to the eighties and nineties when the Governments of the pentapartite, to stand on the saddle, divided every possible place and founded their alliances on this. After all, the same is happening these days: dozens of summits to discuss places, cash deposits and loans, RAI and many other appointments. We have understood that perhaps even this decree-law, in the end, serves to fix the internal structures of the majority more than to improve the answers to the problems of the Italians. And that is also why we do not vote for it, because it looks back and does not serve the Italians. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u21	PEPE (L-SP-PSd'Az). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in my speech I will make some reflections which come mainly from yesterday's debate, taking up speeches for good and bad: the former will avoid repeating me on the thousand good reasons underlying the measure under discussion; the latter require me instead to make further reflections. Meanwhile, I announce the favorable vote of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group and I make a preliminary reflection: we absolutely do not accept lessons of respect for the architecture of the State by those who tried to demolish this institution, destroyed the Provinces and hungry the Municipalities. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] The measure under consideration, which - it has to be said - is everything, is designed to rearrange the ministries. It is a measure that must not allocate resources today, but it lays the foundations for more logical, smoother and more coherent administrative action, which looks at the basic principles of public administration that are: efficiency, effectiveness and transparency. With this measure, Italian citizens will know who and how they do what. Therefore, the astonished statements, according to which there are no resources in it, are destitute of every foundation. As for the other reflections made yesterday, I had to see that the evil that has been afflicting the Democratic Party for too long is still present: the allergy to the real country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Many of us remember President Renzi who before and during the election campaign was valuable in indicating the statistical indices according to which employment grew; the more positive these indices were, the more difficult the Italians were, and the same goes for good school. I don't have to believe Senator Vallardi because he's a very good colleague of mine, but I have to believe him when he says they didn't arrive and there's no resources on the ground, because he spoke as mayor. And you have to believe all the mayors. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups and Senator Ruspandini]] Good school was a slogan that did not produce any kind of result. So what is this provision about? It is born on the ashes and failures of the past and on a strategy that looks to the future. Let us also look at the substance of a number of individual measures. On the combination between the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism policies has been said of everything and more. The G20 has understood this and unanimously approved the symbiosis between tourism and agricultural policies: only some people who sit on these benches artificially pretend not to understand it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] It is the new course that passes through Made in Italy, identities, sense of belonging and national pride. You have dried up the heart of Italy. Let us spread hope. Test us with this new instrument. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Then I have a joke, and I don't want Minister Centinario. Each government has included a super-Minister. We have in Minister Centinario our super minister: he will be able to combine agricultural policies with tourism, also because within tourism there will be not only one direction, but a real Department; so he will have the ability to coordinate from his Ministry also all other competences pertaining to tourism. With regard to the environment, the mission units were actually centres of power that blocked administrative action and did not produce the results hoped for, as regards both environmental emergencies, soil protection and protection, and Casa Italia. And if - lively God - Confaed building also expressed itself positively regarding the return of this competence from the Presidency of the Council of Ministers to the Ministry of the Environment, a noble reason must also be there. As regards Casa Italia in particular, I would like to make one aspect clear: Casa Italia is not deleted and the planned projects are not deleted at all. Casa Italia is modified with respect to the legislative instrument with which it is regulated: it cannot be constituted a Department with the law, but all this will be regulated with a measure of internal organization. There is a difference and we say it with great conviction: you have praised those projects; this Government will carry out these and other projects. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] To complete, the Ministry for Family and Disabilities is a real leap of civilization. The measure would have deserved the unanimous jubilation of the entire Assembly, because it transfers the natural family - the one founded by a male and a female - and the disability from a subject that was previously an appendix of a Ministry, perhaps the Ministry of Labour or the Ministry of Public Education, to a Ministry that finally becomes central. Why is this a very important matter? As for the family, it is important because it stands as an embankment to the denatality, to what for so many territories of our Italy, beginning with the territory of South Italy, determines the depopulation. Fighting the birthday means creating the conditions for a future for Italy, because a country that does not have children is bound to have no future. Of course, then it also depends on the points of view: Denatality and depopulation can be a problem or even an opportunity. For the center-left they were an opportunity to motivate the increase in immigrant quotas and try to replace up to the bone those who are not born or who run away with those who come from these countries. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments of Senators Pharaoh and Sudan]] As far as we are concerned, these are problems that must be resolved absolutely. Then we have the disability, which is an electoral commitment that Matteo Salvini assumed in the election campaign. Setting up a Ministry for Disability means giving light to those at the bottom of the tunnel and light does not have any. And we are proud of this provision, because it puts the last ones first instead of always and only the usual ones. To conclude, this is a measure that looks to our Constitution, in particular to Article 95, first paragraph, which indicates the functions and roles of the President of the Council. We want this article to be respected, there is a President-in-Office of the Council, as is the current President-in-Office of the Council, who directs and coordinates government action and does not emphasize it; who stimulates and guides government action and does not block it; who is a noble father and not a greedy and capricious son who wants everything, at all costs, in his own hands. This is also the revolution of common sense: the "noi" takes the place of the "io" for the collective good rather than for the desires of someone. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u24	PAGE (FI-BP). Mr President, Senators and Senators, I have already taken the floor on behalf of my Group, Forza Italia, on the order of the Dicasteries in connection with the debate on the question referred for a preliminary ruling. The reason why we have been very interested in this text, which comes to the vote in this House today, is because - I am not hiding it - it raises many concerns and concerns. Within the decree-law there is the transfer of the functions in the matter of tourism to the Ministry of agricultural, food and forestry policies, in order to promote and enhance it also as made in Italy. The decree-law also includes provisions for the reorganization of the responsibilities of the Ministry of the Environment, the protection of the territory and the sea, providing that the Ministry itself is transferred the responsibilities related to actions and actions to monitor environmental interventions, assigning to it the coordination of the interministerial committee of the appropriate Commission, the related activities of technical support in order to contrast to the hydrogeological failure, defense and safety of the soil. Finally, the decree-law includes the revision and extension of the functions of direction and coordination of the President of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Delegated Minister for Family and Disability in matters of family policies, adoption, childhood, adolescence and disability. As you can therefore understand, the measure clearly changes the structure of our state organization; it transfers fundamental issues that have had and still have extraordinary roles for our structure from one Dicastery to another. In essence, we shape and change the organization of our State, and all this - I do not hide it - in a particular way on some aspects seems to us to be without logic. It is worth remembering, particularly with regard to the Ministry of Tourism - we have already talked about it, but it is worth repeating here - that it was established even in 1959 and then repealed in 1993 after a referendum by the radicals. Between 2009 and 2011, the Berlusconi Government reconstituted it and the Ministry of Tourism was born again. During the Monti Government this Ministry was reconstituted and since 2013 it has been joined by the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities. It is worth remembering, although repeated several times during the various occasions on which other Members have worked to explain the matter, that when we talk about tourism it is right to say that it represents a fundamental part of the growth of our GDP with more than 91 billion euros, which has become more than 217 billion for the induced, which represents 13%. In 2018, an increase of two more points is expected compared to what has been achieved in the past year. The investments amounted to over 11 billion and 1.5 million employees; plus 3.5 million employees in the pipeline represent this world. We are therefore talking about almost 5 million Italians living around tourism, who produce a real extraordinary industry for our economy and for the growth of GDP. It is clear that for us it is a fundamental and driving part of our economy. The Ministry of Tourism - it is reiterated - is, instead, aggregated to that of agriculture. How's agriculture? Unfortunately - I'm sorry to say - it's bad. In Italy, agriculture's GDP fell to 28 billion in 2017 and - dear President - it is the only sector that has fallen by 4.4% compared to more than 1.8 percent of industry and more than 1.5 percent of services. They are engaged in agriculture 1,239,000 people. Basically, we are talking about a sector that is unfortunately not a driving force, but, indeed, is a ball in the foot for our economic growth. I repeat that we are sorry, but it is becoming prevalent in relation to a sector which should have much greater representation. It is therefore natural to ask whether there is a risk that the combination of the two sectors, with such different trends in the growth of the economy of our country, will lead to a slowdown in the tourism sector, as opposed to the agricultural sector, which unfortunately is at a loss. We certainly ask ourselves this question and also give ourselves answers. This makes it clear that we are talking about two areas which - as is clear - are ontologically distant and different. It is true - as has been said several times, and I have also heard representatives of the League refer to you - that there are food and wine and agritourism, but we really talk about niche sectors, certainly not fundamental in the management of tourism, which instead we think must have a representation and a consideration on the part of our country of different nature. On the contrary, we believe that tourism, rationally and logically, deserves a separate, ad hoc ministry, which can increase growth and guide the recovery of our gross domestic product. For us, for Italy, it is indisputable that tourism is a factor of growth and a real mine, which unfortunately to date we have not been able to exploit in the best way. We believe that this aspect of tourism, linked more exquisitely to the reception industry, should be associated, for example, with Made in Italy, as we have said, and we also included an amendment in this regard, which has been rejected, but which we believe is fundamental. It is right that Made in Italy is linked to tourism, because, when we talk about our country, we are familiar with one of our characteristics, linked to creativity and imagination, which celebrates our economic growth at the highest levels, especially in the fields of fashion, craftsmanship, design, cars and cinema. In short, we have fundamental aspects that can be - and, in our opinion, should necessarily be - studied, linked and organised together with the tourism sector. In one way or another, in fact, reasoning made in Italy means, however, exalting our creativity and excellence and to some extent starting a policy of attraction of tourism - especially from abroad, evidently - towards our country. There is therefore a need for a Dicastery to deal with this Italian system and all this of course could generate economic growth - indeed, certainly would - in a country that today unfortunately remains in fact still bogged down in a crisis from which it cannot get out. The organization of important events, compared to everything else, according to a study that we have identified, could generate an increase in turnover in Italy of more than twenty billion in a year. The small way of thinking - in our opinion - does not correspond to the pulsating heart of the country. Instead, we think that all this should be organised and generated in a different way. A coherent and unarranged choice would have been to set up an autonomous Ministry with an appropriate portfolio. As Forza Italia Group, therefore, we announce the vote against the measure under consideration, convinced that this is a decisive aspect in order to give a definitive judgment on the structure and organisation of the State. For this very reason - as I mentioned earlier - we had tabled amendments to try to improve this aspect, always with a proactive and never destructive attitude, but unfortunately it has not been understood: we regret that the League has not done so, but we think and hope that in the months to come all this can respond to a more obvious need and can, therefore, be modified some aspects. All this naturally leads us to express a total negative judgment and, like Forza Italia, a vote against the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u27	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I was able to physically follow the debate in small part, but above all I was able to follow the debate by listening to what was said by the speakers. Some of the speeches have been particularly important and I felt obliged to congratulate a colleague of the Democratic Party this morning - all of you - who finally introduced giant thoughts into the Chamber. Other interventions - such as that of the Senator of Rignano - have been aimed at remembering Facebook and Instagram stories directly. I believe, instead, that politics must be culture and rationality and therefore it is precisely on these issues that I want to mention a Luigi Einaudi, who I think everyone should remember - some have appreciated him, others have perhaps forgotten him - when, writing to Alcide De Gasperi, he said: The greatest problem in Italy is the defense, conservation and reconstruction of the soil against the progressive destruction that threatens it. The man of state must look far away in space and time, even against the will of living men today. The fight against the destruction of Italian soil will be hard and long, perhaps secular. But it is the greatest task of today if you want to save the soil in which the Italians live. Why do I feel obliged to quote these words? For those who have not noticed - even the colleague who preceded me perhaps has incurred this error of assessment - yes, in recent years we have had a revival of the tourist flows that have touched our country, is very true. But who in particular benefited from it? It was above all the great cities of art, and in particular Venice that assumes to install turnstiles in order to control the flows of uncontrollable masses, of which then one must complain because they carry out acts of vandalism to the detriment of the cultural and architectural heritage of the city itself. And the same speech could be made for Rome and Florence. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] It has passed, in fact - let us be careful - an idea perhaps even naive, so tourism is tourism for culture. Well, yesterday Senator Rojc quoted Massimo Severo Giannini in relation to the definition of culture. Can you explain to me what culture is, if I don't respect oikos? Excuse me, my colleague, I know you understand me: this is a Heideggerian reference. And then, if we have to bring respect to the common house, as some people taught us a few years ago - I am referring to the encyclical of the Pontiff "Laudato si", that all have bought but few have read, which indicated that perhaps we have the task of respecting the planet everything - if we want to grasp the relevance of some reflections, in the first place we must defend the characteristic of the Italian peninsula. And the characteristic is nothing more than having a formidable vocation especially productive, linked to the cultivation of land, of agricultural soils. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Take care: I appreciated my colleague's speech. Fourthly, which has made it clear - and we still need it - that things need to be studied from a rational and scientific point of view. Ours is a territory in which some productive vocations had to be indulged. Even those who speak to you have studied the texts of Emilio Sereni, which many on my right should remember. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] Not to mention Marc Bloch, Piero Bevilacqua (Applause from Senator Coltorti) and many others, who have made it clear - for example - that respect for the earth is sacred. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] MALPEZZI (PD). The problem is you didn't understand them! MORRA (M5S). And who still wants to operate cementification today... [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I hear some strange rustling, which I think is due not to tombs or cementification of the ground, but to cicaking. I like the cicadas in this House. Mr Verducci (PD). How dare you! What are you talking about? MORRA (M5S). I believe it is legitimate to express your disappointment, but in the respect of those who are speaking. Mr Verducci (PD). You're the one who has no respect! MORRA (M5S). I'm glad to raise your speech. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the PD Group]] As Salvatore Settis pointed out, in recent decades we have realized, perhaps unconsciously and with all the competitors to an inauspicious outcome, a policy of gentrification. As the Anglo-Saxons claim, we force the inhabitants of the historic centers, of the cities of art in particular, to abandon their homes, neighborhoods and districts, where the quality of life has been getting worse and worse over the last decades. As a result, everyone has been forced to move to outlying areas, since the historic centers have now become outlets for tourism linked to the consumption and use of the museum, the large archaeologically relevant site and so on. However, we all know that if there is a characteristic that distinguishes the entire country, from Courmayeur to Lampedusa, it is the fact that the extraordinary culture of which we have been able in the millennia has been possible also thanks to an equally extraordinary relationship with a nature that is the expression of one of the most effective biodiversity of which the planet offers us testimony. Therefore, those of us who know the country know that biodiversity is a value that must be protected in itself. And this means fighting processes of homologation, massification and realization according to standard processes of artificial places that make what originally was not look the same. So let us, for example, have a characterisation of the specificities of the policies of the territories. Minister Centinario, I call you not a super minister, but a minister who will have to work overtime. In order to carry out this cultural revolution, we will have to make it clear, also through a demographically innovative policy, that we must stop urbanizing the cities, abandoning the territories that were once defined as internal areas, because it is through the progressive and systematic abandonment of the internal zones that we have helped to increase the hydrogeological failure of which we pay annually the bill. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the PD Group]] It was enough - for example - to protect, even legally, with fiscal interventions, hilly or mountain agriculture, also in relation to the cycle of the breeding, to allow landslides, erosions, landslides and so on to be episodic news and not continuous characteristics of our news and newspapers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That is why we must stop using mission units, because the mission is something special, while we must return the task of programming to politics. MALPEZZI (PD). It's not about programming! MORRA (M5S). We must not think of Casa Italia only after the earthquake. We must secure all our urban and peri-urban centers, even when there was no earthquake the week before. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We must put schools in safety, without making beautiful schools, but getting safe schools, because the country's educational building heritage has not been the subject of serious investment since the early 1970s. It's true something moved, but as a mayor recalled...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u28	Conclude, Senator Morra.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u29	MORRA (M5S). ...to redo the plasters. I'm finishing. So let politics be planning. The challenge you have chosen is important. We will certainly now meet the demands made and we know that politics must become a culture again. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u30	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 86 of 12 July 2018, laying down urgent provisions on the reorganization of the powers of the Ministries of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, of agricultural food and forestry policies and of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, as well as in matters of family and disability" (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot: [[Senators present 266 Senators voting 265 Majority 132 Favorable 164 Contrari 98 Absent 3]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u31	The next item is the debate on proposals for a preliminary ruling on draft law No 717. I call Senator Parrini to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we consider the measure in question, Decree-Law No 91, worthy of an in-depth discussion already in the preliminary question, because it seems to us to be lacking in many respects; a measure which deserves a documented criticism and which we believe we must focus on, in order to make it clear that this act is also the result of a will that seems to characterize the current majority, the will not so much to address the problems concretely, but to make mass distractions and signage activities. The decree-law under consideration is also used for these purposes and, in this sense, is perfectly consistent with the other initiatives that this majority has taken. It is not easy for me to take the floor and talk about the measure after listening to Mr Morra, because everything I thought would happen to me, except to hear who is the creator and accomplice of a dangerous anti-European propaganda to mention in this House two fathers of European unification such as Alcide De Gasperi and Luigi Einaudi. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I didn't think it would get that far, but it did. And I would like to say to my colleague Morra that the display of quotes is a useful exercise if there is consistency between quotes and if there is consistency between the message and the bearer of the message. The PD Group did not seem to see such consistency in its speech at all. [[Applause from the PD Group]] But I'm going back to the thousand-pronged decree. First of all, we are dealing with something new, which I would like to point out to colleagues: we are doing the thousandprorogation decree in August. So, the government is definitely about change, about the change of season at least. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] 10:39 a.m. (PARRINS FOLLOW-UP). All we thought we would see except a decree-law extending the deadlines submitted to five months from the end of the year. This is very strange and we must ask ourselves why. The reason is that, in reality, even if it contains positive provisions, which we will support, and others that we will try to improve with our amending activity, the measure under consideration is characterized by its "signalistic" value. In fact, the measure wants to send messages, such as the conviction, already many times theorized, that the aim of the reformative activity is to do not measures that replace the situation of existing things a better situation, but an activity to dismantle the reforms carried out previously. Let us remind our colleagues in the majority that the purpose of those who govern should be to build and not to destroy. From this point of view - for example - we find little convincing what is said about the elections of the councils and presidents of the Province, in which we note elements not only of illogicality and inconsistency, but also of non-constitutionality. The decree-law is badly written, in many parts it is staggered and improvised and stands in direct contrast to a sentence of the Constitutional Court. For all these reasons, we see reasons for proposing a preliminary question and calling on the whole of the House to consider these measures. We also add that there are rules on wiretapping and cooperative credit that show that we want to give a message of contrast to reforms that have not been shared, without having absolutely a clear alternative project in mind. In our view, this cannot be done. Therefore, for all these reasons, the Democratic Party raises, with respect to the measure under consideration, a very convinced and strong question of reference. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u33	I call Senator De Petris, to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP2.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u34	Mr President, the so-called thousand-prolongation decree-law is a bad tradition that has accompanied all governments, there are good traditions and there are bad ones. We have always stigmatized, even with regard to the past Governments, the presentation and the continuous and systematic recourse to the so-called decree thousand extensions. In this regard I would like to mention the various judgments of the Constitutional Court, among which I would like to mention in particular No 22 of 2012, in which the Consulta clearly traces the illegality of a decree-law whose content does not respect the constraint of homogeneity. In this case, of course, everything can be said except that the decree-law under consideration is homogeneous. On the other hand, we have just heard Senator Morra exalt, rightly, biodiversity: obviously biodiversity is also at the basis of the decree-law in question, because the interventions contained in it are varied and very uneven. So, unfortunately, we have been used to this bad tradition, but innovation has undoubtedly been and must be acknowledged to the Government. We have in fact the innovation of a decree a thousand extensions that, instead of being examined at the end of the year, is summer. So, we are actually experiencing to the bottom the wind of change. Let us ask ourselves what are the issues to be considered, apart from the individual interventions contained in the measure: we are faced with a measure consisting of 13 articles, which contain extensions on the most varied topics, on some of which we are probably also in agreement and will be tabling amendments. The point on which there are all the elements to place a preliminary constitutionality and to revisit the evident inconstitutionality of the decree-law is the fact that it is, with all evidence, a series of provisions, moreover previewed in a very confusing way, destined to affect various sectors. I would like to mention a few: from the state's historical transfers to a sort of election day with regard to the elections of the Presidents and Provincial Councils, the interceptions, to some very strange derogations operating, for example, only for Ischia and not perhaps for the other islands. It is, in short, a combination of rules that demonstrate once again an improper and arbitrary use of the instrument of the decree of urgency and frankly we would not have expected it to be presented in summer: perhaps we will have another one at the end of the year and this will also represent a further novelty. Often and willingly, in the last legislature, the 5 Stars have presented rightly preconstitutional prejudices on many so-called thousand-pronged decrees-laws, demonstrating the fact that the use of a decree-law such as this of extension terms, as we stubbornly, in recent years, have emphasized carrying on our reasoning, is an indication of the inability of the Executives, at this point of the various Governments (and this is no exception, alas), to effectively and efficiently direct the administrative machinery of the State. It is an indication of the inability to ensure the good performance of the public administration, in accordance with Article 97 of the Constitution. The systematic recourse not only to the instrument of decree-laws - of which we have had several examples in recent years - but to a so-called thousand-pronged decree-law, which concerns a heterogeneous series of interventions that had to be adopted already for some time, is evidently a sort of declaration of guilt of the non-capacity of the public administration and of the non-ability of the Executives to direct the public administration and the individual Ministries. We have had cases - which I hope will not happen again - of extending the entry into force of regulations that have followed over the years: some for ten, eleven or twelve years. The use of this instrument itself, in our view, denounces a clear inability. We can therefore only see a clear inconstitutionality, which lies above all in the repeated use of the instrument. Moreover, this government is not only no exception, but it is also likely to double because we find ourselves a thousand summer breaks. Reiterating constantly is not only an abuse of the decree of urgency - and we hope that it will finally put a brake on it - but even of an instrument such as that of the milleproroghe that, due to the heterogeneity of the contents, intervenes denouncing itself, that is a clear inability to address and solve a series of problems that often drag for many years, with a clear imbalance, a forcing between Parliament and the Executive, which in itself constitutes a vulnus of the Constitutional Charter. For all these reasons, we do not revisit the possibility of proceeding further and we ask the House to finally give a signal, in order to have an educational effectiveness, perhaps avoiding, since it was presented in the summer, to find ourselves a second decree-milleproroghe, as from negative tradition, even at the end of the year. We ask therefore not to proceed to the examination of the bill n. 717 of conversion into law of this so-called milleproroghe, for obvious, established and repeated use - certainly, not in this Government, but in the instrument yes - of the decree milleproroghe. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u35	I call Senator Mallegni to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP3.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u36	Mr President, the new government is today for the first time in dealing with the main issue that we care about, namely the abuse of the urgent decree. The thousandprorogates decree to our examination, however, not only highlights the abuse of the decree of urgency, but represents the summa maxima of a Byzantine legislation that perpetuates itself in the cavil and in the reference, with very long quotations of paragraphs, articles and laws. Therefore, in this usual cavillosity, in this usual legislative Byzantineism, they find hidden traps together. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I apologise to the Presidency and to Senator Vitali who started the applause, but I must have made a mistake, because that is what Mr Crimi said on 26 February 2014. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I apologise to the House if I was confused. CRIMI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. The quote is wrong. MALLEGNI (FI-BP). I have great respect for Senator Crimi and I share this position in relation to the logic of the milleproroghe because it is correct and I tell you this as a former local administrator, so as a person close to the needs of the citizens (I have heard several times this morning about mayors, local administrators and I have been mayor for three mandates). The decree of urgency is to be used, as the word itself says, at particular times, because otherwise we have returned to have a country that awaits at least a couple of times a year the decree thousandprorogates; it waits for Parliament to express itself on important issues also (in this decree-law we speak of Provinces, of justice, of the environment), issues regarding which the territory, the local authorities, the citizens, the families and the enterprises have already begun to comply with the norms, which are current norms of the State, approved by Chamber and Senate, on which then, at a certain point, the decree of thousandprorogates intervenes. I believe that when you govern a country you do not do it for consent; you do not have to govern for consent, but because the rules that you approve must be definitive. We cannot, as long as we are in opposition, talk about a country that does not take account of rules, that has no determination in the application of justice, that has no precise rules in the management of the environment, of the relationship with the territory, of commitments that companies and families must take on the basis of a law of the State and then, when you get to the government, the first thing you do is this. Let me say that this House and the Commission have been debating two or three questions for a month and a half: the transfer of motor vehicles to Libya, a decree of dignity that will come armored to the Senate and that has lost pieces in three weeks of discussion, more than anything else on the press and social networks that seem to be a passion for at least one political part of the majority; and now we are talking about the one thousand-pronge decree, so nothing else. I wonder if it would not have been better to ask the House for more direct involvement. I say this constructively, because I do not want to end the controversy in itself, which makes no sense: would it not have been better to involve Parliament in these weeks with measures also linked to those contained in the thousand-pronged decree today and to ask the Commissions and the House for a commitment to try to improve that legislative provision? We put this issue to the attention of the Government, the country and all those who have hoped for the logic of change: change - I say this with regret - is not there, because we are faced with the same things. For years we have been mistreated because there was no respect for constitutional law, Article 70 and Article 77, as regards the urgent decree, and what do we have today? We have the same ones who jumped on the benches of the Senate or of the House, who invaded the benches of the Government, who in the streets taught us the respect of the law and of the Constitution to the cry of "honesty!," "institutions!," "respect!," "Constitution!," and so on, that reappear us, sic et simpliciter, a thousand-prorogation decree equal, identical to what was presented in the past legislatures. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] And that I, as a local administrator, have always contested, whatever the government was, because it is not possible to do administrative management on the territory or to do business if every time, at some point, you change the rules of the game in race. That's not possible! That's the logic. We have to go back to talking to people and explain that this method is no longer working. I would have expected - I say this with great respect - that a majority composed like this would say: "No, we do not do the thousandprorogues decree." Are the rules wrong? Well, while the rules apply, then there is a thorough debate, perhaps Parliament is not closed in August - those who speak to you make the tourist entrepreneur and the August holidays never made them [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , but I wouldn't want to go back to the topic of work otherwise some colleague of the Movimento 5 Stars gets angry, so I let it go (so much our point of view you know it quite well), and it is discussed, even when Italy puts in crowd the engine of productivity. Perhaps we would have arrived in September with legislation, on some points, I do not say on all (but the Commissions are 14 and there are also special ones, because here there is also proliferation: there seems to be a gene that multiplies things within the House and Senate), serious and correct, that went in the direction of the needs of the enterprises. Moreover, and I say this with great respect, it would have gone in the direction of the majority view. We must take note of our role as a minority, however, as I do not hold myself to the opposition, but I believe that I am a minority, momentarily, but as a government, I believe that we could have brought and brought our point of view to a multi-faceted legislation, since this thousand-pronged decree addresses various issues and has a range of opportunities, as we would say in the field of trade, huge to which everyone can add of his (and you will see what will happen with the amendments). We could have made structural changes, which would have led to mature legislation without extending it. This is the concept to which we are linked and to which we want to engage, because what we call the other Italy is precisely this; this Italy or what has been we no longer like. Therefore, since we have renewed our parliamentary groups by more than 70%, since we look to the future with a different objective, for us the other Italy is not the one you represent today in Parliament, but it is the one we try and want to represent us today in this House and in the squares in the coming months. That's what we're gonna do. [[Call the president back.]] Dear President, thank you for the opportunity you have given me. We ask for the help of all the senators on this measure, because I know that you think about the things that are presented: please vote favorably on the preliminary ruling that Forza Italia has presented because it is the mature point of view that we expected from you and did not arrive. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u37	One representative per Group will be able to speak during the debate for no more than ten minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u40	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, we hope that the so-called'multi-prorogation' decree will not be discussed and the prejudices will be put forward for this, because the magnificent explanation of vote by the League on the previous decree, which was already incredible in itself, would only be absolutely credible if we did not now discuss the'multi-prorogation'. The whole system of great reform of the state, in fact, clashes with the need to take time, but to do what? You don't understand. The milleproroghe does not contain any kind of evaluation of the future prefiguration of all the themes that are touched upon. This government takes time and tries to figure out what to do, but in the meantime what does it do? I say this because the Democratic Party has ruled the country for years and every year it has provided for a so-called milleproroghe decree but it has also followed an idea, which was to constantly reduce, year by year, the extensions to give certainty to the country. The many parts of the country need certainties, certainty of the rules. The municipalities need it, the companies need it, the institutions of the territory that make investments. Well, with this thousand-pronge, much of the country is uncertain. Shall we give some examples? We are talking about Provinces, interceptions, cooperative credit banks, infrastructure financing. There is money, there are destinations, the projects that must be financed have already been identified and now we take time to make very important decrees that, from the infrastructural point of view, would help our country in a fundamental way. Here, then, today the milleproroghe represents a mistake. It represents something that should not have been done, because it gives uncertainty to the country. I am not saying that Italy must be changed at a time. We had begun a process of gradual reduction of uncertainty and the gradual reduction of uncertainty also went in the direction of eliminating the elements that even structurally, in our country, create uncertainty. They're called reforms. We had proposed reforms and in this sense we believe that there must still be a future of reforms in our country. It is not done with the decree milleproroghe, it is done with an idea of country that looks to the future, to a country that works and must know how to function in order to give certainties to enterprises, families and the institutions of the territory. This is not the case with the thousand-pronged decree, and that is why we are asking for it not to be discussed. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u41	Pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred for a preliminary ruling, with several reasons, by Senator Marcucci and other senators (QP1), Senator De Petris and other senators (QP2) and Senator Mallegni and other senators (QP3), referring to bill No 717. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u42	The next item is the debate on the draft law no. 689, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the own-initiative draft law of the Anzaldi Deputies; Nesci and others; Verini; Santelli and others; Palazzotto and others, 6, 173, 314 and 503. The rapporteur, Senator Giarrusso, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the text approved by the House establishes for the duration of the 18th parliamentary term a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the phenomenon of mafias and other similar criminal associations, including foreign ones. The article, while reflecting the general system and largely the wording of the anti-mafia Commission law adopted in the 17th legislature, introduces some changes which reflect various proposals contained in the final report approved by the previous anti-mafia Commission at the end of the last legislature. The main innovations are due in particular to the identification of further areas of investigation compared to those of Law No 87 of 2013. In addition, they concern the strengthening of the powers of the Commission, including in relation to activities promoting the culture of legality and overcoming the biennial renewal of the Commission. As regards the first profile, i.e. the tasks of the Commission, the draft law provides for the extension of the subject of the investigation to several new topics, including the protection of victims of extortion and usury, the protection of the family members of the victims of the mafia, the monitoring of release, information systems and databases in use in the judicial offices and the police, the modalities of action of the mafia and similar associations through corrupt or collusive conducts, the infiltration within Masonic associations or in any case of a secret or confidential nature, the trafficking of drugs and weapons, the trade in works of art, the relationship between the mafia and information, with particular reference to the various forms in which violence and intimidation against journalists is manifested, the gambling system, the anti-mafia movement, the monitoring of legislation on the fight against terrorism for the purposes of combating mafia. With regard to the powers of the Commission, it is possible to adopt initiatives aimed at increasing awareness and participation of citizens on the issues of the fight against the mafia and the culture of legality. Moreover, the limits set by the Commission are redefined, exceeding the provision of Law No 87 of 2013, which did not allow the adoption of measures relating to the freedom and secrecy of correspondence and any other form of communication. The limits for the Commission relating to measures relating to personal freedom shall remain firm, without prejudice to the co-active accompaniment of witnesses. Finally - particularly important - the Commission's two-year renewal obligation is exceeded. Article 1 of the draft law approved in the Chamber contains the establishment of the Commission and the definition of the subject matter of the investigation, the tasks and powers of the Commission. As far as the subject of the investigation is concerned, the draft law provides that the tasks envisaged will be assigned to the Commission to investigate the phenomenon of mafias also with regard to other criminal associations, however known as foreign mafias, transnational organisations and all criminal organisations of the mafia type. As regards the tasks referred to in Article 1, many of them coincide with those of Law No 87 of 2013. In particular, the verification of the implementation of the legal provisions adopted against organised crime, the verification of the appropriateness of the formulation of the existing legislation, the formulation of legislative and administrative proposals deemed necessary, the assessment and evaluation of trends in the changes taking place in the mafia-type crime, including with regard to internationalisation processes and the role of crime in the promotion and exploitation of illegal migratory flows. The aim is also to investigate the relationship between mafia and politics, including its territorial articulation, crimes and mafia political massacres. The investigation also covers the forms of accumulation of illicit assets and the phenomenon of money laundering, in order to ascertain how the public procurement system is defended and, at the same time, to examine the adequacy of existing legislation for the prevention and combating of such phenomena. The founding law also aims to examine the negative impact of the banking and financial production system and the transparency of the management of public resources from the activities of the mafias. The Commission's tasks include monitoring attempts at conditioning and infiltration by mafia-type crime in local authorities, in particular with regard to the administrative component, and reporting to the Chambers at the end of their work, or whenever they consider it appropriate or in any case with an annual report. The text also introduces new aims, including to verify the implementation and adequacy of the provisions on the protection of victims of extortion and usury, to verify the implementation and adequacy of the provisions on the protection of family members and victims of the mafias, to extend the implementation of the application of the prison regime also with regard to the monitoring of release, to verify the adequacy and adequacy of the existing legislation and its implementation in the field of information systems and databases in use to the judicial offices and the police forces. The aim of the Commission is also to extend the investigation into the relationship between the mafia and politics with regard to the selection of management groups and nominations for elected assemblies, including in relation to the code of self-regulation on the formation of electoral lists proposed by the Anti-Mafia Commission in the 17th legislature. It is also necessary to extend the analysis of the new trends of the changes in the mafia-type crime to include the following additional areas: corruption or collusive conduct; infiltration within Masonic or secret associations; trafficking in drugs and weapons and trade in works of art. Among the tasks of the Commission is also to plan an activity aimed at countering, monitoring and evaluating the relationship between mafias and information, with particular reference to the various forms in which violence or intimidation against journalists is manifested; to extend the evaluation of the legislation on money laundering also in relation to the fictitious heading of goods and to the lawful and unlawful system of gambling and betting; to examine the nature and historical characteristics of the civil anti-mafia movement, to monitor its activity, to map the initiatives and educational practices in progress or to be carried out; to examine also the possibility of using institutions and instruments provided for in the legislation on the fight against terrorism in order to combat mafias. These are tasks which largely reflect the indications that emerged during the work of the Anti-Mafia Commission of the XVII legislature, formalized in the final report, where it was hoped that, in the discussion of the founding law, it would assess its introduction. With regard to the powers of the Commission, it is also envisaged that the Commission should not be able to take measures relating to personal freedom, with the exception of the co-active accompaniment of witnesses. Time's running out, ma'am? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have a minute, Senator Giarrusso. , rapporteur. There must have been a misunderstanding then, Mr President, because I was told that I had 40 minutes for the report. [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u44	It's ten minutes for everyone, Senator Giarrusso.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u45	Mr Giarrusso, rapporteur. I apologise then to my colleagues for the misunderstanding. This is the first time we have dealt with this formula for the approval of a draft law, Mr President. We have learned that there will be no debate in this House on the draft law when we consider it so important, which I think is particularly serious. I shall conclude, given the limited time allocated to me, by reminding only one fact of the President, if you will allow me: yesterday the forces of order and the Calabrian judiciary carried out an important operation on a very small municipality, Roccabernarda. Colleagues, think: it is a municipality of 3,344 inhabitants, which was under the heel of the 'ndrangheta that oppressed the lives of citizens. A murder was committed only because a citizen of that municipality had turned to the mayor to fix a road and not to the head of the 'ndrina'. I believe that such a murder, carried out in 2014, represents the defeat of the rule of law of our country. It is a fact on which we must question ourselves and from which we must start again to rethink the entire struggle against the Mafia. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u46	As the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene, we proceed to the vote on the articles of bill 689 in the text formulated by the Commission, identical to the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u49	VITALI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting in favour of Article 1. The establishment of the bicameral anti-mafia Commission for a few years has become a necessary and appropriate custom and I believe that the current formulation of the anti-mafia Commission has inherited a large part of the suggestions and proposals of the anti-mafia Commission which operated in the 17th legislature. In essence, in the tasks provided for in Article 1, we have as new, compared to the anti-mafia of the last legislature, an issue that concerns the study and attention for the victims of extortion and wear and tear, and we know how much importance and impact they have, at this time, in our society. The necessary evaluation and monitoring of the release for termination of the sentence have also been included, because this will allow to have a mapping of the subjects that are adjacent and that could continue to have connections with the mob organisations. It has also been established that the Anti-Mafia Commission will have to verify the adequacy and updating of information systems and databases of prosecutors of the Republic, the Judicial Police and the public security because the information, the transfer and the exchange of news and investigations within the Police Forces are an absolutely important element. It is also important to light a particular lighthouse on corruption, freemasonry and secret associations. Just as it is important to pay attention to drug trafficking and to identify the path of capital, because economic resources can identify elements of infiltration related to organised crime. These are all elements that have been highlighted by the work carried out over the past five years by the Anti-Mafia Commission of the 17th legislature. It remains bitterness, as far as I'm concerned. I have already been a member of the Anti-Mafia Commission in the past legislation and there has been a proposal by the Anti-Mafia Commission of the 17th legislature to reduce the components from 50 to 40: I see that neither the rapporteur nor the Commission's debate, nor the House, nor the Senate, has this suggestion been adopted. This leads me to think because, in fact, those who are active in the Anti-Mafia Commission, at least in my experience, are 25 members at most. Such a broad composition, of fifty representatives, will probably serve to achieve some balance within the Groups, but it does not give efficiency or operation to the Anti-Mafia Commission. In my view, however, this Commission should devote itself - as contained in the first article of the draft law - to two fundamental missions, the first of which is the intercourse with the police and the judiciary specifically engaged in the fight against organised crime, in order to propose more effective legislative measures to Parliament, which can be adopted and used by the competent bodies to better combat organised crime, which has made many progress. The second mission lies in the propaganda of the culture of legality, starting from meetings within schools, because that is where we must insist to prepare the new generations for the respect of law and legality. We declare the vote in favour of Article 1. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u52	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in the first Commission in the House of Deputies, certain powers of the Commission - from paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 of the text - have been removed from the unified text, which I still consider to be of fundamental importance today and which were contained in both the draft law No 6, which I signed, and the one deposited by the Movimento 5 Stars. For this reason, Liberi and Uguali presented amendments to both the Chamber and the Senate, and unfortunately - I say this more as a former magistrate than as a member of the opposition - they were rejected with the contrary opinion of the rapporteur and the Government. In my view, we have missed the opportunity to follow the indications that the Commission, chaired by Mr Bindi, suggested in the final report of the XVII Legislature, adopted unanimously - I stress this - and therefore also by the political forces that today support the Government. Specifically, in order to enhance the Commission's consultative role in the legislative process, it was envisaged to request an impact assessment report from the Government that specific draft laws under discussion may carry out, with regard to policies to combat criminal organisations. Analoga report could be requested from the National Anti-corruption Authority, with reference to the modalities of defense of contracts and public works from the Mafia conditionings. Another point was the phenomenon of mafia infiltrations in local authorities. There were various forms of intercourse with the Government, in order to allow constant monitoring at parliamentary level also of the action to restore legality, carried out both by Commissioners and by the extraordinary Commissions appointed by the Presidency of the Council. The methods of collaboration with the National Anti-Mafia and Anti-Terrorism Prosecutor for access to registers and databases, as referred to in Article 117 of the Criminal Procedure Code, were defined, limited to data not covered by investigative secrecy. Finally, the Commission was given its opinion on the proposal for the appointment of the Director of the National Agency for the Administration of the Use of property seized and confiscated from organised crime and the Commissioner for the Coordination of anti-racket and anti-wear initiatives. Despite these serious concerns, which de facto limit the powers of the Commission, especially as regards the information it should request from the Government on the infiltrations of organised crime in local authorities, which have become increasingly dangerous, I declare the Group of Free and Equal votes in favour of Article 1. [[Applause from Senators De Petris and Errani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u53	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u56	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Rule 2 defines the composition of the Commission and the procedure for electing the Bureau. We believe that it was appropriate to provide for different and more reasonable criteria for the composition of the Commission than those currently proposed. Firstly, we proposed a more streamlined composition than the Commission, limiting it to no more than 20 senators and 20 Members, instead of the 25 proposed by the current text. A smaller number would have facilitated the progress of the work, making it easier for the Commission to act. The reduction of members should first be assessed in the light of the possible contraction in the number of parliamentary groups as a result of the new electoral law, in order to respect the principles set out in Article 82 of the Constitution on the application of the principle of proportional distribution of parliamentarians in relation to the size of their respective groups, while ensuring adequate representation of the smaller groups. Another very important aspect concerns the composition of the Bureau, currently governed by paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 of Rule 2. Once again, we in Liberi and Uguali fully accepted the wishes of the final report by the Anti-Mafia Commission of the 17th legislature chaired by Mr Bindi, and I remember once again that the report was voted unanimously; unfortunately, my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars and the League have changed their minds. I would not like them to apply, as unfortunately seems, double standards. Ideas, especially when it comes to battles that should see us all united, should not change, whether you stand in opposition or in the majority. We believed - and we believe - that the President of the Commission should be expressed by an agreement between the Presidents of the two Chambers, while the election of the two Vice Presidents and the two Secretaries could result from a secret ballot in the Commission itself. We tabled this proposal on the first day of the legislature, that is, before the House elected its Presidents, and in this way we wanted to stress that this approach was totally institutional in nature and was not subject to any political assessment at all. The reason, once again, is to be found in that final report adopted not more than a few months ago. I quote: "Considering that the new electoral law has a predominantly proportional system, it could be considered, as an alternative to the election in the Commission, the return to the system of appointment of the President of the Commission already adopted in the legislatures X, XI and XII, when the electoral system was on a proportional basis. At that time, the choice was entrusted to the Presidents of the Chambers to whom the appointment, in agreement with each other, of the President between the parliamentarians of the Chamber and the Senate, outside the members of the Commission was responsible. Our amendments and suggestions have been ignored both by the government and by the majority, which voted against itself and against common sense. However, despite these doubts, with a spirit of cooperation for the rapid operation of the Commission, hoping that there will be no risk of a deadlock due to difficulties that occasionally interfere in finding an agreement between the political forces for the election of the President, I announce the favorable vote of the Free Group and Equal to Article 2. [[Applause from Senators De Petris and Errani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u57	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u60	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, due to a malfunction of the electronic voting system, I was unable to vote in the previous vote, which I wanted to be in favour of.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u61	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u64	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, in Republican history, starting from the third legislature, the Chambers have always set up a Parliamentary Commission with the aim of analysing the strategies put in place by the various Mafia organizations, following their evolution and deepening the study of infiltrations into the social, political and economic life of the country and their roots in areas other than those of traditional settlement thanks, especially in the current, to the corruptive method, in addition to the use of force, violence and intimidation. If it is true, in fact, that over the years the mafias have suffered significant blows thanks to the approval of important legislative measures of prevention and contrast, to the commendable work of judiciary and law enforcement (as testified, moreover, by the arrest of the great leaders and the seizure of large assets) and the reduction of social consent, it is equally true that the Italian and foreign criminal groups continue to play a very important role, now not only in the Italian society, but, unfortunately, also in Europe and in the world. In this respect, the phenomenon of local government dissolutions due to the infiltration of organised crime is of absolute seriousness. Over the last five years, 68 local authorities have been dissolved, of which 32 in Calabria alone, confirming the very strong interest of the mafia clans in the resources managed by the municipalities and local health companies. Equally worrying is the ability of organised crime to extend its sphere of influence to many sectors of the legal economy - from construction, catering, health care, transport, waste management, gambling, betting, shopping, real estate - thus reinvesting the huge profits of drug trafficking and other illegal activities. Therefore, it is necessary and necessary to continue systematically and continuously in the analysis and prevention of criminal activities and illegality, further deepening the knowledge acquired so far and checking in a timely manner the effective adequacy of the instruments provided for by the legal order, the existing structures and the resources currently available in the action to combat the mafias, which I find to be increasingly diminished. The need for an anti-mafia commission in the country is there and the reasons are absolutely indisputable. To be questionable are the powers that the majority wanted to entrust them. It was simple to give the Commission adequate powers. It was simple, because it was sufficient to transpose the work done by the previous Commission - as I have already said - the one chaired by Mr Bindi, who has been characterized by a very intensive investigation activity, witnessed not only by the very high number of sessions, missions, working committees, but also by the twenty reports approved on the various issues that are being discussed throughout the legislature, among others: the social reuse of confiscated property, the transparency of electoral lists, the loose municipalities for the mafia, the relations between criminal organisations and Freemasonry, the conditioning of the media, the lawful and illegal play, the situation of the judicial offices in Calabria. I have tabled my draft law and amendments to the text discussed in the first Commission, taking into account this final report of the 17th legislature (I repeat once again that it has been voted unanimously). But the much-warned change obviously also concerns the positions taken by the groups that were in opposition yesterday and are in the majority today, since many of those assessments have been disregarded in the text that we are going to vote on today. I have already pointed out, in the explanation of vote on the individual articles, the crucial points that have been removed from the Commission's competence. The first point concerns some fundamental prerogatives of the Commission, since the possibility of requesting an impact assessment report from the Government that specific draft laws under discussion may have with regard to the policies of law enforcement of criminal organisations has been eliminated. Today, the assessment of the impact of laws, including by the Senate, has been based on what can be an even better way to legislate. We can only study the impact of a law in order to be able from the beginning to consider the solutions that are going to regulate and the possible consequences, even negative ones, that sometimes arise. A similar report could be requested from the National Anti-corruption Authority with regard to the procedures for controlling public works contracts by means of mafia conditioning. With reference to the phenomenon of mafia infiltrations in local authorities, then, different forms of interlocation were regulated with the Government, in order to allow constant monitoring, at parliamentary level, also of the action to restore the legality carried out by extraordinary commissions and extraordinary commissioners. The fact that some local authorities and municipal councils have been dissolved three times indicates how this instrument, thought of in past times, perhaps is no longer current today; perhaps we need to review this instrument with a new law, in order to effectively prevent local infiltrations. It is desirable that this should be one of the priority points of the work of the new Anti-Mafia Commission. The methods of collaboration with the National Anti-Mafia and Anti-Terrorism Public Prosecutor's Office were defined for access to the registers and databases referred to in Article 117 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, of course limited to data not covered by investigative secrecy. The contribution and help of the National Anti-Mafia Public Prosecutor's Office in this field had been there in the past. I must say that access to judicial records is still not perfect, due to shortcomings of the Ministry of Justice; think that the pending cargoes are not yet unified throughout Italy, so you have to ask for certificates in the various parts of the territory. In short: goodbye transparency and lists of companies, to say it with a slogan, in the sense that there will no longer be the possibility for the new anti-Mafia Commission to operate that search which, in the event of elections, gave the opportunity to bring to the attention of voters information relevant to consciously exercise the right to vote. This seems to us to be a limitation of scope and a deliberate decrease in the capacity of the Anti-Mafia Commission. Parliament, however, wanted to stigmatize it: no more lists of exploitable ones. These points were, among other things, contained in the unified text of the House of Deputies which, as I have already said, was deleted during the proceedings. The second point concerns the composition of the Commission: I have already explained during the explanation of vote on Article 2 that it would have been preferable to appoint the President of understanding between the Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, but so they did not want the majority and the Government. Colleagues, I think that the action of the judiciary moves within the narrow confines of the judicial investigation of personal responsibilities, but investigating and interpreting what lies around judicial truth is our task, a task of politics. Aware of this limit and by virtue of more than forty years of work as a magistrate, I proposed in my inaugural speech as President of this House in 2013 to set up a Commission on all the unsolved massacres. We must bitterly note that we are once again missing the opportunity to solemnly undertake to clarify what has happened in the country in those years. Although I have highlighted these concerns and shortcomings, I am voting in favour of the member of the Mixed, Free and Equal Group. [[Applause from Senators De Petris and Errani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u67	STANCANELLI (FdI). Mr President, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking to announce the positive vote of the Fratelli d'Italia Group on the draft law under consideration, in the light of the tradition and consistency with which the Italian political right, since the first institution of the Anti-Mafia Commission in the Third Law, has always voted in favour of these measures. We regret, however, that the House of Deputies did not consider approving an amendment tabled by the President of Fratelli d'Italia, Giorgia Meloni, which asked to include, among the tasks of the Commission, the assessment and evaluation of the nature and characteristics of the new forms of organised crime of a mafia nature linked to immigration, to new resident populations and to specific social, economic and cultural contexts of more recent formation in the Italian territory. We thought that this precise identification of tasks was important, because the mob phenomenon in our peninsula has expanded with the entry of new populations, also towards subjects who are in Italy, who work in an honest way and who suffer the prevarication of those who use mafia methods. We therefore felt that such a forecast was indispensable. However, the Government, by express declaration of Undersecretary Molteni, said that it greatly appreciated the real scope of the amendment calling for such inclusion among the tasks of the Commission and explained that, within the framework of the organization of the work that the Commission itself will give itself, precisely because the title of the bill under consideration also speaks of foreign organizations, it will be possible to foresee this type of work, which we asked for was better identified. My speech here therefore serves to acclaim, so that it remains with the acts, that the Commission institution, in its work, will have to assess this aspect as well. It is necessary that not only the Italian citizen, but also the foreign citizens who care about the Italian institutions, who work honestly in Italy, can feel guaranteed by the national Parliament in this important task, which is that of the inquiry into the 360 degree mafias. That is why I announce the positive vote of the Brothers of Italy Group and I hope that our identification of the phenomenon of foreign mafias will be unanimous. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u70	FARAONE (PD). Mr President, I naturally announce the Democratic Party's vote in favour of setting up this important Commission, but since I expect, once this measure has been approved, a post or tweet by Salvini or Di Maio, or some aspiring Salvini of the League or some aspiring Di Maio of Movimento 5 Stars tell us that they are making history with the establishment of this Commission, I recall that the Commission was first set up on 20 December 1962. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] In the Mezzogiorno we have built a heritage over the years. Unfortunately, the Mezzogiorno was considered in the past years the realm of the Mafia, because this has been the case for many years; instead, we managed to form a ruling class and also legislation that finally made it the capital of anti-Mafia. A legislation that I would also like to recall here because a few days ago - repeatedly - I saw social communications from the current Minister of the Interior telling us about property confiscated from the mafia, the allocation of those same assets and how important their social use and their confiscation were. The Minister of the Interior has stated the assignment several times and has told it. I also recall in this case that Law 646 on the confiscation of property dates back to 13 December 1982, and bears the signature of Rognoni and Pio La Torre. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] I say this because we are happy that the Minister of the Interior has finally noticed the existence of this legislation, that this is a type of innovative instrument and has been made available, unfortunately, to the whole country and also in the international context. What first belonged only to the Mezzogiorno of Italy, in fact, that is, the mafia and also the anti-mafia, that legislation, the work done by those legislators, has become heritage of the whole country. It has been found, unfortunately, that the mafia is everywhere, in all the national territory and also in international context, and what was told before in the schools of the North and in the rest of the world as a sort of adventure story of the pirates of the Caribbean, the Mafia of the Mezzogiorno, unfortunately has become a phenomenon also present in those Regions. Therefore, from the kingdom of the Mafia we became the capital of anti-Mafia, and that legislation and the men who died for it became national and international legislative heritage. I say this because many women and many men died for the construction of this heritage and, precisely because of this, I also ask Salvini to respect the commitment he announced on 4 July last, always with a tweet, talking about a document: In the Province of Siena today I visited a estate seized from the Mafia. I signed a document to triple the staff of the agency that deals with the property confiscated from the Mafia. The documents are measures which should be adopted, for example, in the many Councils of Ministers which have met in recent weeks. Well, there is no trace of a measure, signed by Salvini, of this Government that triples the staff of an agency that needs more staff. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] On the question of property confiscated from the Mafia, I would remind you that many issues need to be dealt with, and in this case too, it would be appropriate for the Minister of the Interior, instead of constantly worrying about the poor unfortunates, to persecute the victims of the caporalate, to constantly persecute all those who have a condition of weakness, to deal more with the mafia that creates the caporalate and speculates on immigration and lace. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Salvini, employed by Matteo Messina Money, do not only deal with constant persecution of NGOs and all those involved in dealing with such a complex phenomenon. I believe that the Mafia has finally had valid contrasts thanks to women and men, whom I mentioned, such as Pio La Torre, Falcone, Borsellino, Father Pino Puglisi, Piersanti Mattarella; many people who have been killed by the Mafia because they have built reformist paths on anti-mafia, have produced concrete measures and not anti-mafia wordia [[Applause from the PD Group]] ; I don't tell about an anti-mafia that gets pissed at someone, but by building concrete measures that have served to reduce that phenomenon. I say this because the next anti-Mafia Commission, the one that we must set up - and I am addressing my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement in particular - must work in that direction, in the spirit of drawing up concrete measures, such as the previous Commission, because 23 measures against the mafia and corruption were born thanks to the drafting that was there and then Parliament passed laws. Using the Anti-Mafia Commission as a court to establish a new degree of judgment, as a place to build new propaganda, would be an obvious mistake for a Commission that has a very important history. I say this because a few days ago a photo was taken on social networks in which the vice premier Di Maio was immortalized in a bar in Palermo with what was considered the new treasurer of the mafia. We don't even think Di Maio knew the person he was getting photographed with him. The problem is another: when it happened to some of us - to Poletti for example - Di Maio and many of his colleagues have campaigned persecutory, insulting and attributing to those photos an element of guilt. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Having listened to authoritative representatives of the 5 Star Movement in this House and in the other parliamentary classrooms, I note that if you want to transform that Commission, not into the institution with the history I have told you, the noble fathers I have spoken about and that ability to draw up concrete measures, but into a new court, a place of insult and manhunt, I believe that this would really mean denying that story and setting up an anti-Mafia Commission that does not have the requirements for which it was born and structured in recent years. I therefore declare the Democratic Party Group's vote in favour, with the hope that the Commission's Bureau will be elected quickly, so that it can work quickly and it will not be lost the same time that has been lost for the constitution of your Government and the Commissions, with Parliament blocked waiting for you to finish all the negotiations necessary to start the government, because this Commission is needed. We cannot afford to waste too much time building this governance and this Commission leadership. Thank you and good work to the Commission when it is set up. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u73	SOLINAS (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, members of the Government, colleagues and fellow senators, the draft law n. 689, approved by the Chamber of Deputies on 17 July, outlines a line of continuity in the establishment of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of mafias and other criminal associations, including foreign ones, which originates from Law n. 1720 of 1962, approved during the third republican legislature. At the same time, however, it imposes, in the face of the new dynamics that distinguish the phenomenon in contemporary times, a different and wider reflection. As happily intuitioned and rigorously theorized by Fabio Armao at the beginning of this millennium, the mafias have profoundly changed themselves, opting for increasingly flexible and reticular organizational structures, less dedicated to the violent clamour of the Corleones of the past and directed above all to that wide grey area of proximity to the economy, finance, institutions, which generates a considerable turnover in intolerable pockets of opacity and impunity, decidedly more dangerous in terms of erosion of economic, social and democratic equality. Therefore, a two-fold, systemic and global perspective is needed to grasp its complexity, continuity and many transformations in a unified and non-partial and disarticulated vision. The Anti-Mafia Commission of the 17th legislature has given us an alarming picture of major works, gambling, renewable energy, toxic waste disposal, private health, and the same financial system. But we must not overlook what now appears to be the most thriving industry of evil: money laundering. According to the Bank of Italy, this segment is worth 10% of GDP. From this point of view, the need to develop an investigation into interactions, including international ones, with economic, political and institutional actors becomes even more pressing. If on the one hand, in fact, as noted by Giacomo Di Girolamo, the Sicilian mafia, decimated by arrests and in distress in the control of the territory, has turned its main activity to make profit the huge accumulated capitals in the past, the 'ndrangheta, instead, has increased own traffics, the turnover and the expansive ability. There has also been a worrying gemmation of new mafia and paramafia organizations, as in the paradigmatic case of capital mafia. Mafia penetration into the dynamics of clandestine migratory flows will then be investigated, with particular attention to the management of the huge public resources deployed to deal with the emergency, the procedures adopted, up to the cases of exploitation and real human trafficking, aimed at fueling criminal activities with the black work and the racket of prostitution. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Here today, ladies and gentlemen, we must strongly reaffirm the usefulness of this Commission of Inquiry, especially in the face of the risk of a substantial indifference that is spreading among people and an overall disorientation of the operators in the face of a phenomenon that is constantly changing and increasingly camouflaged on the thin line between lawful and illegal, between healthy economy and criminal economy. Faced with this progressive grey zone, we cannot limit ourselves to contemplating the history of anti-mafia, to the repositioning of old rituals, of a customary vocabulary, of second-hand ideas. We need a new, united, choir vision and action of Parliament and the country as a whole. Also because, quoting Sciascia, who foreshadowed the similarity of the palm line to the mafia line, the latter climbs every year and affects everyone. For all these reasons and with the wish of a common feeling, as well as a unanimous vote of the whole Senate, I announce the favorable vote of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and the Senators Giannuzzi and Ortolani. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u76	LONARDO (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will say at once that Forza Italia will vote in favour of setting up the Anti-Mafia Committee of Inquiry, as it has always done in practice and with full conviction. The fight against mafias is certainly not born today, with this parliamentary initiative, and through a further instrument of national coordination whose tasks - I am talking about those of the Commission - and powers have expanded over time. Without neglecting the sociological trait of the mafias that continue to characterize the entire territorial reality of the country by now, it is worth focusing attention on what can be defined, rightly, as a criminal economic cycle - and not only - capable of altering the correct process of development of the national economy of the financial institutions. In Italy, in fact, the analysis of mafia demonstrations based only on judicial evidence seems reductive compared to a complex problem that often has its roots even in the most hidden corners of public administration and entrepreneurship, with a deep interweaving, as happened also recently, between mafia and corruption that imposes an increasing commitment on all levels of civil society on the prevention and discussion of the culture of legality. This too, ladies and gentlemen, must serve the Commission in its role of control and investigation, without, however, having an ideology that is eccentric, almost an instrument of power to debilitate opponents morally and politically. In other words, the Commission must have its own rigorous and serene capacity to propose and investigate and to seek to analyse the criminal phenomenon and to strike it both in Italy and in its international links. No objection of method, then, regarding the reconnaissance of the mafia-political relationship in the territories, regarding the selection of management groups; but careful, we must be wary - and say it out loud - so that the Commission is not the improper place of non-compliance with the procedural and constitutional rules regarding nominations in the Assemblies. In this regard, I would like to ask a little special attention from this House because it has happened to me but it can happen to anyone. I myself have been the victim with others - unjustly and unreasonably, in the last parliamentary term - of a media lynching whose removal in public opinion can become a truly dramatic struggle. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The Commission must therefore have enormous scope for investigation, but without ever interfering with the Constitution and the stages of a process in which we can be immersed without any reason and without any guilt. The moralistic visions, the kind President, ladies and gentlemen, must not therefore be placed in the spirit of this founding Commission, which, on the other hand, belongs only to loyalty to facts and not to half-truths. The Commission cannot be repetitive in wanting to review an already written history on its agenda, in judging judgments already issued by the various courts. I believe that our direction must go mainly in the detection of the management of intrinsically illicit affairs and the commission of spy crimes such as usury, extortion and corruption. I also believe that we need to go down particularly in that "karst zone," in agreement with the various anti-Mafia authorities in Europe, where there is a strategy of dive in the offshore countries and in the world stock exchanges, where recycling is almost dizzying. Then I would also like a serious and incisive investigation to make the so-called grey zone colorful, that is, the highly articulated institutional area, where they operate in various ways and responsibilities, alongside collusive economic actors, also deviances of the bureaucratic, administrative, state and local apparatus. Finally, I would like to point out that we are increasingly witnessing a progressive affirmation of the role of women within the Mafia criminal structure, which appear to be the protagonists of purely executive activities both in the function and accounting management of income. Women have an organizational capacity and an approach to reasoning different from that of men because they introduce practical sense and concreteness into the actions of organizational processes, as my colleague Tiraboschi brilliantly reminded us yesterday. So it is even more appropriate to peep into this unexplored world so far of deviance and illegality and to fully assess the extent and extent to which these women run criminal affairs; I believe that this is or should be the new and unpublished task of our parliamentary committee of inquiry. As you can see, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Government, the front is wide and very diverse and the contrast can take place only in the condition in which the Commission is united in its objectives, rigorous in its analysis and strict in its judgments; in short, that there is no bad faith, that is, neither partisan nor prevented, slapting the truth of the facts, as has often happened. After all, the mob method remains in many respects the same as - hear, hear - in 1876 it delineated in the pages of his famous investigation Sidney Sonnino: The Mafia is a vast union of people of every degree, of every profession, of every kind, who, without having any apparent, continuous and regular bond, are always united to promote mutual interest, abstraction made by any consideration of law, justice and public order. We want to fight this mafia method because it is beyond our horizons and our religious, lay and cultural values. That is why the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u79	DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators and representatives of the Government, the Parliamentary Movimento 5 Star Group will vote in favour of the adoption of the draft law which provides for the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the phenomenon of mafias and other criminal associations, including foreign ones. And it does so with conviction, I say this to all my fellow senators, starting with Senator Pharaoh, from whom - it is clear - we do not accept lessons. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Not even on sensitive issues such as anti-mafia policy. A strong vote representing the re-establishment of the Commission, as at every beginning of the legislature, one of the highest moments of parliamentary activity, a constant of our institutional political life, unfortunately justified by the continuing threat that organised crime continues to represent to our democracy, the efficiency of the economic system, security and even the sovereignty and prerogatives of the democratic state itself. Is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, to talk about sovereignty without really controlling the territory? Can we talk about state sovereignty without guaranteeing the free and transparent competitiveness of companies in a market conditioned by the influx of dirty capital and threats to honest businesses and entrepreneurs? No, you can't. Just as we cannot speak of true democracy, of democracy achieved in a political system in which the vote, dear Mr Pharaoh, is still, especially in Sicily, heavily influenced by the manipulation of the mafias. For this reason, the work of the Parliamentary Commission, together with the procedural investigations carried out often at a heavy price by the police and the judiciary, continues to remain a central moment in the work of contrasting the democratic state towards a phenomenon that continues to self-produce and grow, assuming even more disturbing aspects in the globalised markets. The measures provided for in the draft law establishing the Commission are particularly important and significant, because, from civil education to anti-mafia, they contain more penetrating provisions to combat the mafia phenomenon in the most terrible aspects in which it manifests itself: they are the financial aspects that you see and that, starting from the risk to get to other activities, make the fight against the mafia increasingly problematic. It is a struggle that at this point becomes a challenge and that must, in fact, lead us to take on the field with the political determination needed to face and try to eradicate the phenomenon at last and effectively. Violence and control of the territory in areas of historical vocation, such as Sicily Campania and Calabria, continue to remain an undeniable characteristic of these criminal associations, but what we are facing now has the size of what, in terms of economic invasiveness, I do not hesitate to define - and I pay attention to what I say - as authentic monstrosity, especially if we try to dimension the extent of the phenomenon. According to the most reliable estimates, the mafia would have a turnover of 150 billion per year, since, if taken as a good one, as does a good journalist like Gianni Dragoni, leads us to the conclusion of being in front of a hypothetical holding company, "Mafia Spa," categorized by far as the first Italian company for the turnover: 40 billion more revenues than the first Italian Exor group for example, which has inside Fiat-Chrysler, Ferrari and all the other things you know, even Juventus. The revenues of "Mafia SpA" would be more than double those of ENEL, almost triple those of ENI, 8 times those of Telecom, 16 times those of Luxottica, 15 times those of the group that produces Nutella, or 41 times those of Mediaset, the television group controlled by Silvio Berlusconi. The profits of "Mafia Spa," in short, are almost 34 times those of the richest bank in Italy that in 2016 was Intesa Sanpaolo, or 40 times those of the ENEL group, 50 times the General Insurances, 58 times Telecom, 120 times the profits of Luxottica. "Mafia Spa" has more useful than all Italian banks. This is the size of the phenomenon and at this point we must continue to wonder where all this huge mass of money ends. It is an important reflection that we must make and gives a dimension to the commitment of the police forces, but also to parliamentary action. From this point of view, therefore, the new measures are particularly effective, but I would like to point out that enforcement is even more important. We must remember some episodes that have happened in recent decades and that give a measure of the commitment that we must put in cleaning up and making transparent the state apparatuses that make anti-mafia or that say to do so. It is useless here to remember the sacrifice of policemen, policemen and magistrates, beginning with Giovanni Falcone and Paolo Borsellino. Ladies and gentlemen, we have mentioned this in recent days: what would we say to Paolo Borsellino today in telling him that, in the investigation of the massacre that caused his death, a part of the police apparatus has put in place a false repentant like Scarantino to throw away the investigation? How would we tell him all this? That is why we must work hard and clean up. We must remember the immense effort and the heroism of police officers and magistrates who have acted and act, but, as a promise, today, after the many celebrations, remembering Borsellino and all the others, let's say that, if we want to be credible, we must go and put our hand in those police apparatuses against which the sentences began to tell something, but still little or nothing has been done. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I now come to a more delicate point than state security equipment, which should, through intelligence operations, provide the elements to be really effective. How can we be credible when we celebrate the victims of the mob, if we don't go clean up and intervene in the security equipment, the secret services and the deviant apparatus? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] These, as the most reliable judgments and testimonies say, hiding under the initials "Falange armata" which you all know here, have signed the bloodiest attacks. The new strategy of the 1993 bomb tension bears the signature of the armed phalanx. Ambassador Fulci, in those years head protempore of Cesis, the highest authority in the matter of secret services, said and wrote, telling and documenting it to the then President of the Council and the then President of the Republic, who, in his opinion and for the internal investigations he had carried out, those bombs of 1993, as some others that marked the strategy of the mob tension of previous years, carried the signature of a dozen agents of the Sismi nested in the seventh division. In order to be credible, together with the new measures that the new law will put in place in setting up the Commission, we must remember all this, otherwise it is not credible to be able to do what we want to do, namely a serious fight against the mob phenomenon (which is no longer the settlement on the territory). Let me tell you: I find it hard to believe that today the 150 billion a year - in ten years there are 1,500 billion, almost the entire Italian public debt - are managed by mobsters like Provenzano and Riina. It has been since the investigation of private banks and Sindona that a real investigation into the high part of the mob, which is that mass of money, has not been possible. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We want the security equipment, cleaned up by those who put the bombs, to make intelligent on this front, to bring us on the financial flows that dominate or risk dominating the markets. Even using the instruments available to this Commission for study and study, we want to finally succeed, with a state and with clean security equipment, in freeing Italy, but - at this point - the whole world from this authentic cancer represented by the Italian mafias. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups and Senator Buccarella. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u80	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the draft law n. 689, as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Consequently, the draft law no. 6, 173, 314 and 503.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u81	The next item is the debate on the draft law no. 627 already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 218 and 570. The rapporteur, Senator Briziarelli, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. Before I give the floor to the rapporteur, however, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to update you on the possibility of concluding the discussion of this draft law before the pause. If we were to succeed, of course, we should not resume the work of this House this afternoon and there would be more room for the meetings of the Commission to take place. If, however, it seems incompatible, we shall suspend the sitting of this House, but we will be forced to return to it later. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important to make two general points, the first of method and the second of substance, before we begin to illustrate the draft law. As in the case of the anti-mafia investigation committee, which has just been examined, the follow-up procedure is the one provided for in the new Regulation. This, on the one hand, has speeded up the discussion and has brought us here today; on the other hand, it does not allow for a general discussion, so my report will also take into account the points made in the Commission. On the substance, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry was set up for the first time in the XIII Legislature: therefore, as in the case of the previous Commission of Inquiry, its reconstitution is not new. This, of course, allows a dual key for reading: if, on the one hand, it points to a continuous and constant attention to a fundamental issue, such as the investigation of illegal activities related to the waste cycle and the environmental offences related to it, on the other, it also shows that this is a wound still open to our country. If, after five legislatures, we are still here to set up a Commission of Inquiry into this issue, it means that the problem is far from being resolved. However, something has been done, in a number of respects: in terms of awareness, the list of tasks assigned to the Commission during the legislative process has been gradually expanded and deepened, as have the results achieved by the bicameral committees of inquiry of previous legislation; in terms of positive contributions, the same approval of Law No 68 of 2015 has been the result in part of the work carried out and of the suggestions given by the bicameral commission of inquiry; finally, always in terms of the contributions made, it is sufficient to think of the analysis carried out by the previous bicameral commission of inquiry one year after the introduction of Law No 68 of 2015 and the contributions of the final report of the bicameral commission of inquiry of the previous legislature, which provided useful suggestions, collected by the Act Senate 627, which we find today in the text proposed by the Commission. In this respect, before moving on to a quick, but timely, illustration of the articles of the draft law, I would like to make it clear that what we are hopefully going to approve today is, in almost all, the text of the bicameral committee of inquiry of the previous legislature. Some of the innovations that have also been introduced in the light of the final report that has been drawn up should therefore be considered. In particular, the proposal for a law n. 627 compared to the proposal of the previous legislature, includes among the tasks assigned to the Commission the verification of the state of implementation of the Bonifiche of the polluted sites and the correct implementation of the environmental legislation, the verification of the application of the law n. 68 of 2015 in the matter of so-called eco-reactors, the verification of the existence of illegal activities related to the management and disposal of material containing asbestos and the investigation of illegal activities related to the phenomenon of fires. In this regard, regarding the dramatic case of fires and fires of waste, I would like to draw the attention, also that of the Government, to the circular issued in these days by the Ministry of the Interior in agreement with the Ministry of the Environment so that the sites of storage of waste are considered sensitive sites and inserted in the plan of coordination and control of the territory coordinated by the prefects and managed by the Forces of the Order. Again in the context of the tasks assigned to the bicameral commission of inquiry additional to those already foreseen in the previous legislature, I note those on illicit phenomena concerning waste management plants, i.e. illegal landfill sites. Finally, it is worth noting the planned development of surveys and visits to plants that adopt recognised procedures of better quality and greater effectiveness in the field of the environment, with experiences of development and application of the principles of the circular economy in order to prevent environmental illicits. I believe that this is the most significant innovation compared to the functions previously assigned. The picture shows that the situation is changing, the work previously carried out must not be dispersed and for this reason the point of arrival of each of the bicamerals must become the starting point of the next. Our Commission, in particular, has tended to settle the desire to ensure final approval at second reading, thus giving up amendments to improve the text, but also not wanting to restrict itself to mere ratification. In giving a mandate to the rapporteur to report to the House, the Commission has therefore also decided that the rapporteur could include in the report the ideas that have come from the various colleagues, in particular from Senator Arrigoni, on the need to carry out a detailed report at the end of the Commission's work, from Senator Nugnes, on the need to highlight the current legislative issues, from Senator Ferrazzi, who - recalling the report of the previous legislature - called for particular attention to be paid to the monitoring of governance and the verification of the issue of waste at sea. In conclusion, the unanimous will in the Commission to consider the Commission as an active and proactive entity that does not merely identify responsibilities for the past, but helps to identify solutions for the future that bring legality to the centre of this important sector. I now come to the point-by-point analysis of the articles. Article 1 (1) of the draft law recalls, among the tasks assigned to the Commission, those provided for by Law No. 1 of 2014 establishing the bicameral commission in the previous legislature. In particular, it is expected that the Commission will have the task of investigating the illegal activities related to the waste cycle, the organisations involved in it and the role played by organised crime; identifying the connections between illicit activities in the waste sector and other economic activities, with particular regard to the trafficking of waste between the different regions of the country and other nations; identifying the specific illegal activities related to the cross-border illicit trafficking of waste, with particular reference to those concerning waste, including hazardous, from sea ports to foreign destinations; carrying out investigations, in collaboration with the investigating authorities of the waste recipient States, to identify activities aimed at placing on the national market goods and products carried out through recycling processes of secondary raw materials obtained from waste, which do not meet the merceological and sanitary characteristics provided for by national legislation; verifying whether there is any illegal behaviour within the public administrations; verifying whether any illegal activities related to polluted sites and reclamation activities exist; verifying the possible existence of illegal activities in the management of the integrated water service with regard to the management of water treatment facilities and sludge disposal. The article 1, paragraph 2, of the provision reproduces the text of the corresponding article of the law 7 January 2014, n. 1, establishing that the Commission will report annually and whenever necessary. Article 1 (3) provides that the Commission shall carry out investigations and examinations with the same powers and limitations as the judicial authority. Article 2 regulates the composition of the Commission, made up of 15 senators and 15 Members. With regard to evidence, the provisions of Articles 366 to 372 of the Criminal Code are adapted. Article 4 (1) provides for the possibility for the Commission to acquire copies of documents and documents relating to ongoing proceedings, subject to the authorisation of the judicial authority. Article 5 provides for the obligation of secrecy for the publication of acts. Finally, Article 6 sets out the possibility for the Commission to make use of the cooperation of off-duty magistrates and judicial police officers and lays down, more generally, the internal organisation of the Commission and its budget. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u83	As the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene, we proceed to the vote on the articles of bill 627 in the text formulated by the Commission, identical to the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u86	PAPATHEU (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor in this House because I am deeply convinced that the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the illicit activities of the waste cycle and the environmental offences associated with it must be set up in this parliamentary term for the sixth time in a row. I say this not only for formal reasons, because the Commission has now consolidated itself in Parliament's work, but above all because, from a substantial point of view, it is necessary to continue the parliamentary work of investigating the business relating to waste disposal and transport. Thanks to the work of colleagues who have been part of this Commission in recent legislation, the waste cycle survey has effectively responded to the need to provide for the precarious situation in which many regions of the country, i.e. those that used plants that were not compliant and unauthorized and exported many of their waste. I can say this with knowledge, because as a Sicilian elected in Sicily I was able to verify what was done before to bring out the situation of waste. What has been achieved in Sicily has been possible by using specific missions in the territory and by carrying out surveys at the landfills that presented the most critical situations. Therefore, I think it is very useful to reiterate our competence to investigate the illegal activities related to the waste cycle, by checking whether there are organisations involved, what they are and, above all, to know the role organised crime plays in this area. The Commission is also needed to identify the links between illegal activities in the field of waste and other economic activities, since lawful activities are often polluted by illegal activities. This is particularly useful to know which waste trade takes place between the different regions of the country or to other nations. Similarly, if this House wishes to re-establish the Commission with its vote (which I very much hope will be the case), it will be able to carry out specific checks on cross-border illegal activities. It is necessary to monitor hazardous waste, particularly those that transit through our ports to foreign countries; this will also allow better direct cooperation with the investigating authorities of the recipient countries. In this way we would be working ourselves to identify the illegal activities that are profitably carried out in order to place on the national market goods and products made through waste recycling processes, obviously harmful to our health and the environment. It is in fact a product that has already proved useful in the past. Experience has shown us that such traffic has also been allowed through the involvement of public apparatus; therefore, the Commission will carry out a check on any unlawful behaviour committed in the public administration. More generally, the Commission will deal with polluted sites, clean-up activities, radioactive waste management, waste water treatment plant management, monitoring the state of implementation of polluted sites and verifying the correct implementation of environmental legislation and environmental crime. The so-called eco-reactors will therefore be at the heart of our possible action. We will have a central role to play in preventing environmental disasters, in verifying environmental pollution, in preventing traffic and the abandonment of high radioactivity material and in opposing ecomafias. I conclude with an economic figure: the turnover of the eco-afies grows four times more than Italy's GDP and the waste sector is in second place among those where the highest percentage of illegals is concentrated, with strong repercussions also on the growth of crimes in the agro-food sector. For all the reasons set out above, I believe that the establishment of the Commission of Inquiry is necessary, even more so today given the report on the ecocomaphysics received 24 hours ago, where in fact this figure is increased by 10%. Unfortunately, the environment, which in our imagination was the environment where we thought we were spending our childhood joyfully and (we thought happily of the environment), today recalls in every sense concepts that lead us to crime and illegals, today extended to other areas, such as the one relating to animals or asbestos (which thanks to his colleague has been introduced among the future activities of the Commission in this legislature). All this forces us today to re-launch the establishment of this Commission, as one of the very first initiatives, of this parliamentary term which has just begun. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u87	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u90	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, in declaring the vote in favour of the Free and Equal component and of the whole of the Mixed Group, I would like to remind you here of some data which point to the importance of giving life once again to the Committee of Inquiry into the waste cycle. It is precisely these figures that show how useful the work done in the last parliamentary term has been and how absolutely necessary it is to proceed with the establishment of a new Commission. 12.42 p.m. (De PETRIS follow). In Article 1 of the draft law, entitled 'Institute and tasks of the Commission', not only the areas on which the Commission must continue to play its role of investigation, but also the issues that we still find open in our country and those related to the criticality of the waste cycle system, are well defined. About half an hour ago we approved the setting up of the Commission of Inquiry into the Mafia phenomenon and, unfortunately, the two Commissions, as has been demonstrated over all these years, are closely related. Organised crime is present in many areas of the country, but we also need to think about the relevance of cross-border waste trafficking today, which is still, in fact, in the full management of crime. It is necessary to acknowledge and acknowledge the merit of the work carried out by the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate for the approval of the law that introduced environmental crimes, after so many years in the penal code, as well as the commitment made by all political forces and the work carried out by the Commission on the waste cycle in this regard. This introduction has in some way marked a turning point. In 2016 we saw a reversal of the trend, because already in 2016 there were 25,889 environmental crimes established throughout the territory and even more in 2017, in which there was a real boom of arrests for crimes against the environment and investigations on the illegal trafficking of waste. Obviously there is a classification of the Regions, which shows us the areas where we must continue to work: I am thinking of Campania, which is once again at the head of the number of crimes, concentrated for 44 percent then in other regions with traditional organized crime. Immediately after the waste there is another plague, represented by the new abusive buildings, which is in second place for the number of crimes contested. We are talking about a big business and great resources: think that only the turnover - let's call it this - of the ecomafia has risen in a year of 9.4% and has reached and exceeded the figure of 14 billion euros. This is an approximate estimate, by default. I'll say it again. I spoke of a boom of arrests, and never in the history of our country have so many arrests for crimes against the environment been made as in 2017, which is also the year of the relaunch of investigations against waste traffickers and in the sector the highest percentage of illegals is concentrated. Another 24 percent relates to crimes against animals. This should also be accompanied by the reading of the latest report on zoomafias, which says how strong the financial interests are and how increasing the crimes against animals are also in children. Another issue is the crimes against wildlife, forest fires, the cycle of cement. With regard to forest fires, moreover, we have had an increase, especially in the last two years: strange fires in waste deposits that tell us that we need the Commission's work to focus again on all the illegal and criminal activity of the waste cycle. It is a sign of how serious and persistent the phenomenon of illegal disposal in the hands of organised crime is. I think about what still needs to be done in the land of fires. I am thinking of the latest fires of toxic materials that occurred in July in Caivano and San Vitaliano - this is to say that we must never lower our guard - where thousands and thousands of citizens are still hostage to dangerous and very harmful fumes for health. They're all of arson. We started now last year - think of the stake in Pomezia - and we have seen a series of episodes continue in the last two years. As I said, 2017 was just the year of the boom and this is due precisely to a strong reversal of the trend compared to past years and to the combined arrangement of the decline of the illicits and the increase of the arrests: the illicits drop and the arrests increase; which means that that law has been sacrosanct and is quickly producing its effects. There is certainly still a great deal to be done, including from the regulatory point of view. We must accompany the eco-reactors, introduced in the penal code, with other legislative measures, and this will be a task on which the Commission will also help us on the waste cycle. I think we need a careful reflection on the correct application of the Eco-Ray Act, which involves all operators in the sector. National guidelines must be defined to ensure uniform application throughout the country, especially in the part that has inaugurated the new system of extinction of environmental and minor infringements. On this, the Commission's monitoring and investigation work will be very useful. Then there are places where the criticality of the system is evident. As you know, Mr President, I was elected senator in the Capital, where the situation is very difficult. The current set-up is very backward, largely oriented through the TMB, with an approach that we think is still old and late: the system of separate collection is late. I quote the situation in Rome because it is my city, but unfortunately - alas - this means that the work of the Commission must still be a stimulus for far more innovative solutions for waste disposal. Compared to the proposals, Italy must demonstrate with concrete facts that it really wants to invest and focus on the circular economy in order to counter the eco-criminal economy and promote a sustainable and innovative economy, based on full respect for legality. The legality in the waste cycle must be our mantra and must be linked to the principles of solidarity, capable of creating work and contributing to the preservation of the immense heritage of our country. In addition to the new legislation which introduced the eco-reactors, the process of defining the implementing decrees must be completed as soon as possible. There is also a great deal to be done in the field of staff training. From this point of view, the valuable work of the Commission's investigation and stimulus will be crucial. I also say that crime and its business are still very strong. We still have many areas on which to investigate and build the conditions for finally legal, sustainable and environmentally innovative management of our waste cycle. [[Applause from Senators De Petris and Errani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u93	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, forewarned the favourable vote of the Fratelli d'Italia Group on the draft law for the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry into the Waste Cycle. The issues that were fully summarized by the rapporteur of the measure are of great topicality throughout the national territory and, therefore, we will vote strongly in favour also because - as has already been said - there are previous works, but there is still a lot to do to reach a definition of the processes of the treatment of waste in general that qualify our country to the level and level of other European realities. Of course from Campania I would also like to recall what has happened and is still happening in this tormented Region. It has been mentioned by Senator De Petris and I will run the risk of incurring the funeral wrath of Governor De Luca, who no longer wants to hear about the land of fires, claiming that this causes damage to farmers, farmers, producers of food and wine of excellence. That is true, but I believe that the damage has been caused by the policy choices that have created disastrous conditions in recent years until the future of the new generations has been mortgaged. That of the land of fires, in fact, is not a problem solved and overcome: the ecoballs are still there, despite the resources there are. Then there is the issue of reclamation of the sites. I am thinking first of all of post-mortem landfills, as well as of burning. Before was mentioned the case of Caivano, where last June 25 there was a frightening fire, with a column of smoke over 50 meters high and with the air become irrespirable and acre. In the same way, a few days later there was a less known fact because it happened outside the perimeter identified as the land of the fires: in Battipaglia, the second city of the province of Salerno, in less than a week there were two very serious fires, the first of which concerned the private company Nappi Sud and the other the plant of grinding and packaging waste (STIR) of Battipaglia; and all this happened in an area of the province of Salerno particularly penalized by the choices of politics of the past, because in the Sele plain there are more than 24 sites for the treatment of waste. All this, together with many other events, which certainly concern many areas of the country where there are no more virtuous behaviors, but where perhaps there are no personalities of the world of culture who have important media forums and light up a spotlight, shows how it is the task of the politics of this legislature to continue a work that brings out, in a full and complete way, the responsibilities of the past and of those environments connected with the evil. And it is not only a matter of derogatory behavior of politics, but also of behavior of civil servants not always orthodox, or of private sector entrepreneurs who, sacrificed to the only god of profit, did not hesitate to poison our lands and put under a magnifying glass, certainly not positive, our nation. I conclude by saying good luck to those who are going to live up to the work of the Commission of Inquiry and recommending that they get to work immediately. If politics does not want the conscience buried under the ecoballs of the land of fires to rot, we must immediately give a signal of change, a signal of presence of the State, which must be the best stimulus for all those honest citizens who every day, despite everything, do their duty. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u96	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been explained by the rapporteur of this measure, the Commission in question has been active since the 13th legislature. This fact contains many things in itself, including the positive consequence that Parliament wants to keep constant attention to the shameful crimes we are talking about. Of course, in this need we can also see the pervicacious presence of criminals who have organized their own economic empire in criminal activities of scale, via increasing. 12:59 p.m. (Ferrazzi). It is certainly a positive fact that this measure has been voted unanimously in the House and we see, also from the speeches of colleagues, the possibility of doing the same to the Senate. For us this fact is very positive and we express, with strong support, our vote in favour of the measure. It is a strong positive vote because the business related to eco-afies is away, as it grows over the years. Legambiente's 2018 report has recently been deposited, from which it is evident, dramatically plastic, that the business now concerns cross-cutting sectors in our nation and its entire territory, regardless of or almost. From an economic point of view, there has been a turnover - let's call it this - which has seen, compared to 2016, an increase of more than 10 percentage points. The business, calculated as a whole, would amount to more than €14 billion. The sectors are cross-cutting: more than €3 billion relate to the management of special waste; similarly, more than €3 billion relates to animals and protected plants; EUR 2 billion relates to building abuse; EUR 1 billion and EUR 300 million for environmental pollution; EUR 1 billion for all food-related matters; EUR 300 million for archeomafia and EUR 200 million for forest fires. Mr President, for these very reasons, it is quite clear that we very much welcome the fact that the Commission of Inquiry within not only confirms all the fields of investigation previously acquired, but - as the rapporteur rightly pointed out in the presentation of the measure - also intends to extend them. In fact, there is not only an increase in the quantity of eco-reactors, but there is also a qualitative and extensive element in the territory and also in the sectors within which, unfortunately, it has been established for some time now. Now, let's not start from scratch, colleagues and colleagues. The last legislature has taken important steps in the direction of striking the eco-reactors. In May 2015, Law 68 was a step of extraordinary importance for our nation, because it introduced environmental crimes of pollution, environmental disaster, omitting reclamation into the penal code. The numbers of the Forces of Order, the Ministry of Justice and the activities of the prosecutors of the courts already recognize the success deriving from this law. Always making the comparative data 2016-2017, the precautionary ordinances are increased from 225 to 538; the crimes established from 26,889 to 30,692; the people denounced from 28,618 to 39,211; the seizures from 7,277 to 1,027. Of course, we must not beat ourselves with regard to these numbers, because unfortunately they are also the mirror - as I said just now - of the vastness of the phenomenon, but it also tells us that, when a Parliament does things useful for the territory, the results are seen, and indeed they are seen. Other important laws have been passed. I am referring, for example, to the law establishing the national environmental protection system. I am referring to the beginning of legislation against building abuse which is absolutely not sufficient, but which has taken important steps in the last parliamentary term. The establishment of the national database and the destruction fund are certainly an important example of this. Now, of course, in conclusion, Mr President, this is not enough. We must accelerate the action against building abuse, that in itself plastically visible, but also that hidden behind the consumption of the soil. Indeed, a law against soil consumption is firm. A clear commitment that the European Union calls on Member States is to reduce soil consumption to zero by 2050. We must anticipate these times. We must also think together about what at national level, in regional legislation, is called Piano casa; plans that sometimes, or mostly, hide real speculations, because the scope does not concern so much the houses of families that, rightly, have the right to a fair recognition, but it concerned a real speculative boom in construction, directional, productive with the construction of sheds, receptive, commercial. Justly someone before me here today spoke of speculation in the shopping centers grown outside the historic centers, in the urban centers of our cities, causing serious damage within the city of environmental nature but also sociological. It is quite evident, in fact, that the sprawl that derives from it has a direct cultural and social relapse, because to cities that are precisely "spaparanzate", cities delirious etymologically, correspond of societies, of the frightened communities, scattered, that have lost the points of reference and symbolic recognition of being together. And from this point of view the growing fear of our cities has a connection, there is a connection. Urban planning must now have a holistic vision and not only as a professional. In addition to that, Mr President, we must adopt a number of rules which are not yet in our system. I am referring to an in-depth study of the issue of protected fauna and flora, agromafie, the traffic - which is also indecent - of cultural heritage and archaeological finds. The rapporteur in presenting the measure correctly included two issues that we raised in the Commission: the enlargement of the Commission and the emphasis on the governance of controls and waste at sea. President, alongside such an operation there is a great deal to be done in our country - and this is the real discrimination - on the culture of legality in the territories. I was born in the territory of Venice, which saw the growth of the largest production site in Italy, second in Europe, and the presence in Porto Marghera of industrial plants also very polluting on 2,200 hectares. Within a reasoning of growth of jobs there was also the drama of a devastating pollution throughout the territory. I have seen on my skin that we must go beyond the chatter; that the real redevelopment of the land is done when there is investment; that abandoning productive investment in conversion means creating conditions because, also from the environmental point of view, things are getting worse. That's why we push the government to do the same in other areas of our territory, and we think about Ilva di Taranto. Above all, we hope that the compactness of this vote will indeed be such and not just a facade. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u99	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, with the establishment of the Commission of Inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle and the related environmental offences, commonly referred to as the Eco-Royal Commission or the Eco-Royalty Commission, we want to ensure a stable location and the continuous operation of the bicameral Commission which has already been in operation since the 13th legislature. In view of the importance of this Commission, whose ultimate aim is the protection of the environment, the health of citizens and healthy businesses, as a majority group we have agreed with responsibility not to amend the text arrived at by the House, giving up the introduction of amendments of a certain interest that characterized - for example - the draft law deposited by the League Group. The tasks that are expected to be assigned to the Commission of inquiry do not reflect only the traditional ones indicated in the law establishing the same body in the last legislature, which are the following: to investigate illegal activities related to the waste cycle on illegal landfills, on the organisations involved and on the role played by organised crime, the so-called ecomafias, which find fertile ground precisely in the criticality of the system; to investigate the illegal cross-border trafficking of even hazardous waste, where it is important to identify and dismantle the activities that place on the national market goods and products for our families and our children, carried out through processes of recycling of raw materials and secondary materials, obtained from waste that does not meet the merceological and sanitary characteristics provided for by national legislation; to verify the presence of illicit behaviour in the public administration, including the processes of dismantling of old nuclear power stations by public or private individuals; to verify the illegal activities related to polluted sites, in particular the activities of safe and clean-up of 39 sites of national interest; to verify the management of radioactive waste, including the processes of decommissioning of old nuclear plants by Sogin, the costs of which have been over-timeded with the heavy electrical waste for families and the disposal of the most extensive and waste disposal of the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole of the supply of the operation of the whole of the whole of the waste, and of the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole of the waste of the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole of the waste of the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole of the waste and the whole of the situation of the waste and the waste of the situation of the situation of the situation of the waste, and the waste and the waste, as well, as well, as well, as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as of the waste. Think, colleagues, that the only crimes found in the seas and on the Italian coasts related to the pollution of the waters from outlawed sewage or for absent or malfunctioning purifiers correspond for 2017 to as many as 17,000 infringements, with an increase over the previous year of 8.5%: all this to the detriment of tourism and a healthy economy, considering that those who go to the sea and often find murky water in that tourist place never returns. In addition to these traditional tasks, given the investigations undertaken in the previous Commission, the current draft law that we are about to vote also adds the following additional tasks: to verify the illegal activities related to the management and disposal of asbestos-containing materials, still a scourge for the country; to investigate the illegal activities related to the fires at the waste storage and management plants, a phenomenon in worrying increase especially from 2014 to today, with 300 cases of fire throughout the country; to verify the application of Law No 68 of 22 May 2015 on the eco-reactors, daughter of the various Commissions of inquiry, a law that introduced in the penal code the Title VI- bis - Dei delitti against the environment. The Eco-Ray Law, which has introduced new means of combating and repression against the eco-life of crimes for the judiciary, the law of law enforcement and the national environmental protection system, is certainly marking a turning point for the protection of the environment. That the Ecomafia Commission is useful to the country attests to the numbers - alas - alarming registered in 2017: last year, in fact, there were many arrests for crimes against the environment and many requests on illicit trafficking of waste. Environmental crimes are growing: nearly 31,000, more than 19 percent, 84 crimes a day. And think that 44 percent of these, to confirm the grip of the ecomafia in the Mezzogiorno, are recorded in Campania, which has the black shirt, and then in Sicily, in Puglia and Calabria; four regions where clans, cosche and mob companies operate, able even to determine the political choices of the municipal administrations, which for this reason are also commissioners. Even on this the Salvini Minister of the Interior will not make any discounts. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] The reported people (almost 40,000, plus 36 percent) are growing; illegal waste seized (4,4 million tonnes against just over 500,000 tonnes in 2016, more than 800 percent) is growing and, above all, the turnover of the eco-mafia is growing (14,1 billion, almost more than 10 percent compared to 2016); resources taken away from the healthy economy. And how not to remember then like in many Regions of the country, for inability and logic clientele, and therefore for precise local political and administrative responsibilities, the waste cycle marks a deficiency of the service of the separate collection and the lack, in some cases total, of systems that often leads to the emergency. There are no waste-to-energy heaters, there are no waste recovery, composting and pre-treatment plants. The management of waste is, instead, in those parts of the country, heavily dependent on landfills, often abusive, that today are in exhaustion, and by the systematic and expensive delivery of waste outside the Region, often in northern Italy. President. - I shall start with the conclusions. In summary, the Commission of Inquiry is, therefore, a powerful tool that can certainly help to respond to the demands of justice on eco-crime. The Commission will have an important role in reporting to the Chambers with territorial relations or on specific issues when it comes to the completion of the investigations initiated or whenever it sees the need for them. The reports, presented to Parliament, which will certainly highlight problems, problems and pathologies, with resolutions will have to be a stimulus both for Parliament, to adequately innovate the new laws and to modify existing ones, both for the Government, to resolve the serious issues highlighted and to proceed to more effective actions, such as - for example - for the management of the reclamation operations of the polluted national sites of interest, fundamental for the industrial conversion of the contaminated areas of the country, fundamental also to reduce the consumption of virgin soil. I would point out, however, that Parliament and the Government have a duty not only to protect the environment and the health of citizens, but also to guarantee the right of healthy and law-abiding businesses, which are the absolute majority, to be able to do business in a market without unfair competition. The League in this battle will not fail its decisive contribution. The Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will vote in favour of this draft law in the opening of good work to Commissioners who will be part of the Committee of Inquiry. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u102	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle and the related environmental offences, since its original establishment in the 13th parliamentary term - as has been mentioned - plays a fundamental role in the verification, investigation and control of illicit affairs that revolve around the activities of management, collection, storage and disposal of waste that, if not identified and stopped, could create - as they have already created and are continuing to create - very dangerous health and environmental consequences, with very serious repercussions on the health of citizens and on the environmental heritage of the whole country. The re-establishment of the bicameral commission of inquiry, even in the current legislature, is therefore a very important moment in the life of our Parliament, because the task of monitoring and intervening is one of the fundamental prerogatives of the role of all of us called upon to work for the common good. The report on eco-afies 2018, recently presented by Legambiente - as has been mentioned in the course of the interventions - photographs the situation of our country and highlights in a very clear way how the waste sector is the one where the plague of illicits is most concentrated. The report - alas - reminds us that the turnover of the eco-afies has grown by 9.4%, reaching the hyperbolic figure of 14 billion euros, mainly deriving from the waste cycle in the food supply chains and animal racket. This business, of course, in addition to causing economic, environmental and health damage, slows down and compromises - this is the greatest displeasure - the realization of virtuous economies for our country, which are present and go, on the other hand, valued and sustained. That is why, in this regard, Forza Italia - and I hope other groups that will support us - has tabled an amendment to allow companies that deal with end of waste, today blocked, to receive the necessary authorisations to operate their recycling plants at a time of legislative and regulatory transition compared to the powers of those responsible for granting them. Returning to our Commission of Inquiry, these data confirm even more how important it is to have one that works in a concrete way to verify and combat the phenomenon. Unfortunately, we know that the Mezzogiorno is the area in which the mafias connected with the illegal waste management are most involved, while remaining the phenomenon widespread throughout the national territory. One thing is certain, as has been mentioned: the need to keep high, very high guard on such a delicate subject and to invest more and more in the culture of legality. This is why, as the Forza Italia Group, we are preparing a bill on the establishment of hours of environmental education in schools and another on school trips dedicated to the environment by students. A new feature in the text, which makes it different from the law of the last legislature, is that the Commission will also check the state of implementation of the reclamation operations of polluted sites, exercising the power of inquiry also on the implementation of the existing environmental legislation. A very important novelty in the text, which shows the attention of Forza Italia on environmental issues, was the approval in the House of the amendment by Mr Labriola, of the Forza Italia Group, concerning the very important issue of asbestos. This is a fundamental article that Forza Italia has strongly wanted and that will allow to start an incisive action against an emergency often faultfully neglected. In fact, I stress that, twenty-six years after the ban on asbestos in Italy, the very dangerous fiber continues to threaten the environment in which we live and our health: there are over 370,000 structures in the country where it is still present, 20,000 of which are industrial sites not yet reclaimed, 50,000 public buildings and more than 210,000 private ones. It's inconceivable. Special attention will have to be paid to the phenomenon of fires in storage depots as part of the Commission's work. It is estimated that in the last two years there have been almost 300 episodes, endangering the lives of the inhabitants and compromising the environment. This is a phenomenon which is becoming increasingly alarming and which urgently needs to be addressed, with the hope that this Commission of Inquiry, once set up, will immediately give a strong signal to this effect. Waste, and more dangerous waste, is an unexploded mine, which is more likely every day to compromise the development and growth of an already extremely fragile social environment. The bicameral Commission, whose nature is both inspection and knowledge, is a fundamental instrument of investigation, which we will have to use in the best possible way, attentive, firm and fully shared, as an active and proactive subject, to propose and find solutions, as well as to combat an illegality which we call murderer is little. Parliamentary inquiry is the means that more than any other can help to understand and intervene, providing all the useful and necessary elements for legislative activity. The investigation, in fact, is the most incisive instrument of which the Chambers can make use. Finally, it must be remembered that the Commission has - and will certainly retain - the heritage of documentary knowledge of primary importance in the fight against eco-mafia, starting from relations with the prosecutors of the Republic and from the files collected in long years of investigation and work. Do not underestimate, therefore, the epochal scope of this theme. Let me give you a quick hint of overshoot day. Just tomorrow, on 1 August, we will have exhausted all the natural resources that the Earth makes available to us: we will live, that is, on the credit of the next generations. I get goose bumps. The Global Footprint Network International Association calculates each year the day when the human consumption of the planet's resources exceeds the regenerative nature of our ecosystems. This year, with August 1, we beat all the records, because, with the passing of time, the overshoot day is always anticipated: while in the 70s it was usually happening in November, in 2018 we even touched the month of July. All this is closely linked to the waste cycle and to the illegal activities associated with it. To pollute, demolish and exploit the environment weakens, of course, the whole ecosystem, which cannot regenerate, providing us with what we need. This Commission must see the light, it must be established, it must work hard, it must work more than all the others, because it is of fundamental importance to the nation. Allow me, before I conclude, a small nail. Very often politics tends to blame those who ruled previously. Today the old opposition has become a majority and I hope with all my heart, in the exclusive interest of the country and its citizens, that themes such as the missed Bonifice, the ILVA, the so-called Land of Fires, the Val d'Agri, the spilling of oil and plastic and many other situations, large and small in our country, can be addressed not with the excuse that we have not ruled before, but with the readiness of those who want to solve the issues truly, responsibly and definitively. In this, count on our help. I declare that the vote of the Forza Italia Group will be strongly in favour. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u105	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, we have just voted in this House on the draft law for the setting up of the Commission of Inquiry into the Mafia phenomenon and now we are voting on another measure for the establishment of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle and the related environmental offences. These are two committees of inquiry - on the eco-mafias and the mafias - which I personally think are extremely important, as they are two instruments for combating the very serious phenomena of lawlessness and crime, which, although in different areas, investigate illegals that are not without links and connections, because they are often the subject of a single criminal plan. I don't think their importance is at all at stake. On the contrary, the desire to set up the so-called Ecomafia Commission in a short time has been demonstrated by all the parliamentary groups and, for this reason, as President of the Commission, the environment, environmental goods, I would like to thank all the political forces that, in the Commission, voted unanimously in favour of this text, without wanting to slow down the parliamentary process in any way. Today, in my explanation of vote, it is to you colleagues that I am addressing, because many of you will be called on to participate in it and it will depend on your work if the results of the Commission's Ecomafia can be even more significant than those recorded in previous legislation. The investigations to be carried out by the Commission will concern the illegal activities related to the waste cycle, the organisations involved in or in any case related to them; the connections between illicit activities in the field of waste and other economic activities, with particular regard to the traffic of waste within the municipal and provincial territories, between the different regions of the national territory and to foreign States; the possible existence of illegal behaviour in the context of the central and peripheral public administration and public or private entities operating in the management of the waste cycle, with reference to the modalities of management of disposal services by local authorities and their systems of custody; the possible existence of illegal activities related to polluted sites, reclamations and management of radioactive waste; the illicits on the management of water purification plants, disposal of sludge and waste, and also on those of the integrated water system. Thanks to the work carried out in the past and having made of it treasure, it has been decided quite rightly to introduce three further issues on which the Commission will have to work and pay attention: to verify the correct implementation of the existing environmental legislation, as far as its competence is concerned, as well as the effectiveness of the implementation of Law No 68 of 22 May 2015 on eco-reactions; to verify the possible existence of illegal activities relating to the management and disposal of asbestos-containing materials; to investigate illegal activities related to the phenomenon of fires in waste storage, treatment and disposal facilities. In recent years these fires have been repeated with an alarming frequency throughout Italy: we are talking about more than 300 fires in waste storage sites over the last two years. The last, in order of time, took place in Caivano, Campania, just six days ago, where the largest recovery platform in the South burned. I think the images of this fire are still in everyone's memory. A request, however, I feel that it should be made and that it should be made to those who will be part of the Commission. We also need to pay close attention, especially to local problems, which are often repeated in the same way throughout the national territory. During the previous legislature, I submitted to both the Commissions, Ecomafia and Anti-Mafia, an issue that concerns an extraction quarry in the casertano, namely the Cesque quarry located in the Municipality of Falciano del Massico. From the documentation that he managed to produce, it was clear the presence of very important criticalities both in environmental matter and in terms of legality, being a quarry that had started its activities in the absence of the anti-mafia certification, that did not possess all the necessary environmental certifications and whose activity had been declared unhealthy by the ASL of Caserta and had received negative opinion from the civil genius. I was told that there were all the elements to initiate a joint investigation of the two Commissions. Yet the Eco-Mafia and Anti-Mafia Commissions, despite their commitment, failed to give proper attention to the matter. By studying such a case, one can understand where the perverse mechanism of lawlessness is triggered, which often owes its thriving activity thanks also to the complicity of conniving public officials. How, in fact, is it possible to start such a delicate activity of an unhealthy type without the permissions provided by law and without the due anti-mafia certification? How many eyes have been closed to start this quarry? How come no checks have been carried out? How come, despite the numerous seizures that occurred against the company and the owner (which, by chance, turns out to be involved in a famous investigation on the Casalesi), nothing has changed and no one has been punished? The only people to be punished, day after day, are the citizens of Scowland, who inevitably suffer the pollution of this activity still in place. I believe that serious local situations such as this one I have just described must be placed under the magnifying glass of the Commission, because they make it clear that the criminal system that revolves around these disasters is always the same. This serves to make us understand where legal and judicial action is needed to put an end to what appears to be the beating heart of the criminal economy. I therefore hope that the work of this Commission will be as productive as possible, on behalf of the 5 Star Movimento Group, that we will vote in favour. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u106	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of bill 627 as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Consequently, the draft law no. 218 and 570.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u109	Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, I should like to share with the House the news of the serious incident of violence in Moncalieri on Sunday evening, at the gates of Turin, where a young athlete of Nigerian origin was injured as a result of a launch of eggs from a car. The girl, just 22 years old, suffered a corneal injury, risking surgery. A few hours earlier, again in the territory of Turin, there was a demonstration in the square to condemn the recent aggression against another young man, a 19-year-old student beaten to death on the street because - I quote from the reconstruction of the facts - he walked too gay. Not even the worst bad news, which has been somewhat re-evaluated lately by some political class, can justify those who, like Minister Salvini, deny the increase of episodes of intolerance and discrimination in our country. No justification is acceptable in the face of such an ignoble drift, which is our task, the task of the institutions, to fight firmly and rigorously. Yet, when it is said that there is no limit to the worst, someone tried to justify the unjustifiable, like Minister Di Maio, for example, when in an interview he cleared the alarm racism in Italy as a frame of the left against the ally of Government, all in the tombal and deafening silence of President Conte, the lawyer of the Italians, but evidently not of all Italians: not of the young victim of racism in Moncalieri and not of my young citizen, assaulted because homosexual. However, it is first and foremost us, ladies and gentlemen, who have the task of taking action to set a good example, of acting on behaviour before crime, of acting culturally even before judicial action. The responsibility that we have, therefore, is overwhelming and, if we do not place an insurmountable embankment on this which I have not hesitated to define as ignoble drift, we risk not only to favor, but even to legitimize the arrogance and violence against those who are considered different for sexual orientation, religious faith, race or any reason. I therefore address the many, like myself, who do not want to give up on a violent drift, but above all do not want to become accomplices to those around diversity who have been practicing cynical and dangerous calculations for a long time. We go down to the square, we stop those who discriminate, we stop those who justify, we stop those who deny. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u110	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-29.ana.u111	The Senate will meet again in public session on Thursday, August 2, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 13.38 p.m.
