ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.05 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u3	The next item is the immediate questioning under Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Regional Affairs and Self-Government and the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Unterberger has the right to explain the question 3-00200 on the regional competences in the field of Sunday and festive openings of the shops, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u4	Minister, with Decree-Law No 201 of 2011 the jurisdiction of the Regions on decisions relating to the opening of shops has been removed. Production activities are a subject that needs to be delegated to the Regions. There are also various needs related to climatic conditions, local customs, metropolitan areas, tourist centres, peripheral areas and border municipalities. You yourself, on 29 May, presented as the first signatory a draft law that intervenes on the subject. In the introductory report, reference is made to the possibility of re-assigned to the regions the regulatory competence on sales times. After the decree-law of 2011 there was in fact the flourishing of large shopping centers. Being able to work in very different economic conditions have led to the closure of small shops, unable to guarantee Sunday opening. On the basis of these considerations, I would ask you to know whether you do not consider that, when reviewing the rules on the liberalization of opening hours for shops, in relation to which various legislative proposals are currently being examined by the House, it would not be appropriate to bring the decisions relating to the openings of shops within the competence of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u5	The Minister for Regional Affairs and Self-Government, Senator Stefani, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u6	Mr President, I would like to thank my colleague, Mrs Unterberger, who presented the question today. In the question that is asked, an opinion is asked about a certain type of treatment and discipline, the one concerning Sunday openings. At present, as you know, there are more draft legislation under consideration in the Commission, for which the debate has now opened. I note that in more than one of these draft laws it is possible for the Regions to decline the opening hours in practice also in relation to their territorial needs. As this is an issue that is being dealt with in the Commission, there will be a debate here and I think it will be your concern and your Group will make proposals to that effect. As far as the specific competence of my Ministry is concerned, as it concerns matters of competence, I do not exclude that some regions may make a request for autonomy in this matter, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 116 of the Constitution. It will be my job to assess them and verify their eligibility. I do not have to suggest or impose the competences on which to ask for autonomy, therefore I await any requests to this effect from the regions.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u7	Senator Unterberger may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u8	Minister, thank you for your reply. Surely the Group for Autonomies will make a request in this regard.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u9	Senator Ronzulli has the right to explain Question 3-00199 on regional legislation on maritime state property concessions for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u10	Mr President, Minister, tourism is a sector with a decisive weight in our country's economy - we know that - because it is worth 11% of GDP and 12.5% of employment. The beach destinations are the favourites of 68 percent of tourists, who are very satisfied with the services offered, with as many as 30,000 companies and over 100,000 employees in the sector. Minister, I do not have any legal references, because I think you have already read them in the question. I would like to focus on a number of points which are dear to me. Along our peninsula the bathing establishments represent a fundamental economic sector that cannot be left at the mercy of a regulation that is still uncertain. We need a reform law that guarantees these companies and protects the specificities of their activities. Over the last few decades, bathing operators have improved, with their work, sacrifices and investments, the appearance and functionality of our coasts, to make them the symbol of the tourism excellence that the world envies us. This heritage, which is not only economic, but cultural and I would even say identity of our country risks being debased as any soulless commodity. It is therefore our duty to prevent this from happening, by protecting the thousands of small, often family-run businesses that have given life and body to the sector, by subtracting them from the speculation of multinationals. The governments that have succeeded - no one excluded - in recent years have manifested, especially through the appeal of regional laws, a very partial view of Community principles, calling exclusively for the application of the so-called Bolkestein Directive and the obligation of transparency and non-discrimination in the allocation of public goods, but neglecting altogether two other fundamental principles: the protection of legal certainty and the protection of the good faith of those who have relied on a pre-existing regulatory and administrative framework. In the light of all this, I would like to ask the Minister what is the Government's understanding to safeguard this important economic sector of the country; if he does not consider to consider the option of giving up the appeal proposed by the Government protempore Gentiloni Silveri and if he does not believe that the renunciation of the appeal would be an important political act of the Government to concrete confirmation of a reversal of trend regarding the previous Governments. Then yes, you could give a first concrete signal to represent the Government of the change you claim to be. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u11	The Minister for Regional Affairs and Self-Government, Senator Stefani, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for asking a question which deals with a subject - the challenge of regional laws - which may seem somewhat bureaucratic, but which in fact concerns an issue which, as we know, is very complex and delicate. Among other things, the regional laws that you mentioned try to meet concrete needs that are definitely worthy of serious attention, for the reasons also set out in the act of inspection union. The two laws adopted by the Liguria Region have been challenged by the Government which preceded the current one, as they have been recognized of the profiles of illegality. By risking praising you with technical questions, I must remind you that the Constitutional Court has already directed itself in the sense of considering the national norms that limit the principle of competition for concessions on public areas that provide automatic renewals and the two laws adopted by the Liguria Region can be considered in contrast to this type of orientation. I also mention the decision of the Constitutional Court n. 109 of 2018 that declared the constitutional illegitimacy of some provisions of a law of Friuli-Venezia Giulia that had to pay the winner of a contest compensation in favour of the concessionaire for the refreshment, as if the latter had a right to renewal. We know that - unfortunately - the discipline of state property concessions has already been the subject of an infringement procedure initiated and closed with the transposition of the much disputed and debated Bolkestein directive. We are well aware of the comments that have been made on this subject, and we cannot help but ignore the desire, even on the part of this Government, to try to solve a very difficult problem. In this sense, my Ministry (which is a Ministry of Coordination, not having a direct responsibility in decision-making) has agreed with the Ministry of Agriculture Forestry and Tourism to make a technical table, together with the State Agency (on which I am here to wait for any considerations and suggestions), in order to analyze and find the most suitable solution to address and resolve the issue at the regulatory level, precisely with reference to the transposition of the directive. In this sense, I would like to express from the whole Government a willingness to deal with this question, which - I repeat - is delicate, in the face of the world of dealers and those who are normally called the "balnearies," who have told us - even when I received the representatives personally - to pour into a situation of great difficulty. Thank you again for asking me that question. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u13	Senator Ronzulli has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u14	Minister, thank you, but, as you can imagine, your reply does not satisfy us, partly because, in the light of the motion tabled in this House on 27 June, the Government undertook to leave the Bolkestein directive. I would also add that the normative references that you have read are those of the Liguria Region, in which your party shared this law, which was voted unanimously. I would therefore like to stress at least the political fact that that regional law had. Unfortunately, however, as I said, his answer not only does not satisfy us, but frightens us; I think I interpret the feeling of many Italian families, who are currently listening to the conduct of this question on television, because we will mortgage the future of many of them. We know very well that those who have this activity are members of families made up of four or five people and have only that income. We are not talking here about fighting lobbyists, big investment funds or strong powers, but about helping families who have been in a situation of lack of legislation for too long. In the absence of legislation, as you know, many families do not invest, because they do not know if they will be able to recover even one euro. And investment is not only about increasing the service that is given to the public who frequents the beaches, but - as you know - also about creating employment and work. The sadness of this response lies essentially in a fact: today you have lost a great opportunity and a great opportunity to resolve, once and for all, the situation of thousands of families, who have been knocking on the doors of any party for years. In this case, in fact, we are talking about something cross-cutting, which would have helped many families. With this decision you take responsibility today for not having solved the problem. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u15	Senator Rampi has the right to explain question 3-00204 on the new European copyright legislation for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u16	Minister, today we are asking you to know the position of the Government - yours and your Ministry - with regard to a fundamental issue such as copyright. We are convinced that today, in modernity, that on copyright is one of the key policies in the field of cultural ones, which are difficult to implement without guaranteeing a fair remuneration to those who create, work and produce with the fruit of their own ingenuity. Yesterday there was an important and absolutely unpredicted step (I personally would not have bet): the European Parliament was able to find an important balance - after having postponed the vote last July - and also to withstand the very powerful pressure of large lobbies and economic interests in relation to the fact that it regulates this matter. I have to say that it has done so in a cross-cutting and courageous way, including by trying to differentiate the income and income of the large economic groups moving in the network from the activities of the simple citizens and small blogs and information groups, which are completely excluded from this legislation. On this, however, in these hours we have heard objectively very out of place words: there is a completely wrong narration, according to which today the web would be the place of gratuitousness to which someone wants to oppose a taxation. This is not the case: from the work and creativity of many, from the publication of songs, articles and photographs, there are big economic groups that earn. What is being asked with this directive and with all the rules on copyright is that, if someone gains (and someone earns a lot), those gains are redistributed and come mainly to those who have actually worked, with their minds and with their creativity. This is the content of the directive, which has nothing to do with what we have heard in these hours, unfortunately also from colleagues in the government - starting with the Vice-President of the Council passing through some Sub-secretaries, who unfortunately have the delegation in this matter - who have spoken of censorship, of an intervention that blocks the network and closes it. We are also wondering why and what interests we want to protect; why should we choose, Minister? There are great players, the great players of the digital economy who want, understandably from their point of view, to do their interests without having any rules, in a structure of pure deregulation; but there are also weak players in this market, many of them in Italy. We are a country rich in authors and publishers; we are the seventh country in terms of revenue in relation to copyright, for which we boast, for example, a large deficit in relation to the United States. Since yesterday's vote in the European Parliament opens a path of work for national governments and the Commission to arrive at the final directive, I believe that it must be very clear what this Government wants to do; I believe that its Ministry must take full responsibility for it and I believe that any temptation must be fought, including that of those within the Network who want to maintain the far west, because in this condition it prospers. Well, we believe that the time has come to put the rules on the Net, because the rules guarantee freedom, they do not remove it; the rules are the only way to truly guarantee freedom for everyone and not the far west [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u17	The Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities, Professor Bonisoli, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u18	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Rampi for this question, which allows me to make a brief comment on the subject of copyright and the effects of the directive. Yesterday in the European Parliament there was a vote in plenary which approved the copyright directive; this measure will continue its legislative process with the negotiations and, as the Senator rightly says, there will be an intervention by the Government, together with the Commission, to ensure that this goes in the right direction. I would like to start by pointing out that it is in no way intended to deny the importance of copyright and the recognition of an adequate level of protection and protection for authors, which is fundamental to the development and competitiveness of the creative industry. Copyright is in fact fundamental to ensure that creatives and those who work in this industry have a fair remuneration for their own ingenuity and creativity. However, it must be noted that the directive under discussion does not appear to be a properly weighted instrument combining the principles of graduality, proportionality and adequacy so as to provide a fair balance between the protection of copyright and the constitutionally sanctioned freedom of expression on the Internet, showing a clear and undeniable imbalance in favour of the former. In particular, it refers to Article 11, which introduces the right of publishers to authorise or block the digital use of their publications and the obligation of remuneration in favour of them for sharing even just the snippets, which are the short, if not very short, anticipations of the excerpts of the articles; and to Article 13, on the content that citizens want to share and whose loading would be blocked. This is a very serious imposition, even an economic one, for operators and above all it would lead to censorship, often unmotivated, or to the presence of minimal parts of works, with the risk that even in cases of permitted use of the works, the so-called chilling effect, which will be exponentially increased if the new directive comes into force. The risks arising from the Directive are not only related to freedom of expression and communication, but also, above all, to the limitation of information pluralism and freedom to find more sources of information. In conclusion, therefore, my assessment, in line with that expressed by Vice President Di Maio, is negative and the Government will continue its commitment to safeguarding the freedom and independence of the network, for the benefit of the community and citizens. Thank you again for your question. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u19	I call Senator Rampi to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u20	Mr President, Minister, we cannot say that we are satisfied because we clearly have differing views on this point. We have done a careful analysis and indeed our parliamentary groups in the European Parliament have also contributed to the amendment of Articles 11 and 13, precisely to work towards this balance. However, a choice must be made: since blogs and, for example, small platforms have been excluded, it is clear that freedom of expression and pluralism are guaranteed. What is being asked by this legislation is to ensure that large groups act properly to distribute resources and do so by actually burdening them, because today in theory the prohibitions were already there, but if no one is responsible nobody applies them. That is why we are asking you to reconsider, which has also been on other issues, and we are asking you for an in-depth examination that we could also do with the parliamentary committees. Let us take this issue seriously because there really is the possibility of the survival of such a cultural heritage - because there must be something to share in pluralism - but there is also the freedom of each of us. In conclusion, I repeat that freedom and pluralism are fundamental issues for us, but freedom is not that of the far west. Today in the Net those who have the biggest gun win over the man with the gun, as they say in the western films; we think it's time (in fact, it's too late) to get out of that far west and finally enter the time of the rule of law also in the Network. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u21	Senator Corrado has the right to explain the question 3-00201 on the necessity of a competition for the recruitment of personnel at the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I am speaking for the first time in this House and I cannot hide the emotion. I hope you will forgive me, therefore, if I chose to read a question that, as an archaeologist who has been working for twenty years with the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities (MIBAC), in other circumstances I would easily formulate by arm. The question that I ask you, Minister, draws inspiration from today's situation of the Soprintendenza archeologia belle arti e paesaggio (SABAP) for the metropolitan city of Reggio Calabria and the Province of Vibo Valentia, which from 2015 to 2018 changed executive ten times. Avocations of the Director General, regencies entrusted to supervisors of other Provinces or Regions, recourse to the so-called paragraph 6 are devices used in every part of Italy, when necessary; the record reached by the southernmost of the two Sabap Calabrians, however, can hardly be equaled. I stress this unfortunate primacy of my Region, while I hope it has not increased further. I therefore come to ask you whether, having stated that you want to tackle the long-standing problem of the shortage of staff that afflicts your Ministry at all levels, which has become intolerable, you will also want to work to ensure a reasonable increase in the number of supervisors. As you know, more than ten years have passed since the last competition, so the rankings of the eligible (after those of the winners) have also been exhausted. In the archives things are not better, as far as I am aware, but the situation is perhaps even more dramatic. However, returning to the Superintendences, Regions such as Calabria, Basilicata, Molise and with them many Provinces (Benevento and Caserta, to make examples) geographically or mentally peripheral compared to a Romanocentric MIBAC by tradition, also serve the fact that they are not chosen as seats except by residents and only on condition that they have no career ambitions. In the South, in fact, the interferences of executives and officials who end up deserted have long been the norm, having to deal with serious problems of logistic order not compensated neither by economic incentives nor by career advantages. To remain to the initial example, the only executives, among those ten, fleetingly passed to Reggio Calabria and Vibo Valentia in the last three years, either were one step away from retirement or were persuaded to accept the assignment in the perspective of going back up the Peninsula as soon as possible to occupy more pleasant locations. In the worst cases - and in Calabria we have also seen this - the choice against the current of an executive hides the golden exile to which uncomfortable or embarrassing characters submit willingly to escape the attention of the superiors. It is intuitive that all this penalizes hugely rich territories in terms of the quantity and quality of cultural heritage; not rarely are these also vulnerable to the appetites of consortia motivated by economic interests millionaires, determined to take advantage of the surrender without conditions to which the sudden reform Franceschini has condemned the now anachronistic paladins of protection. It is also a question of resources, in fact, what I am asking. Therefore, Minister, always in relation to the need to increase the number of subjects, and waiting for the Trinitarian nature recognized to them by its predecessor to return happily "monophysicists," I ask you whether you will not try to find new resources to ensure the economic coverage of those second-tier posts that have been penalized to pay first-class salaries to the crowd of directors of the autonomous museums, also generated by the reform at zero cost and equal result imposed by the previous Executive. Thank you. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u23	The Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities, Professor Bonisoli, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u24	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking Senator Corrado for her question. It is true that the process of reorganization of the Ministry has involved the adoption of measures of restructuring and organizational rationalization, which however did not bring the expected effects due to the serious lack of staff. Unfortunately, this situation has not been resolved, except to a very limited extent, by the recruitments made in recent years with competition for non-directive personnel sliding the rankings, authorized by way of derogation from the turn-over block at extraordinary events such as earthquakes and security plans. I have already talked about this on several occasions, so here I will try to be a little more analytical, sharing some figures with you. At this moment the Ministry has a deficit, compared to the current organic plant of 3,260 units (we are about 16,000), of which 23 managers. Unfortunately, this shortcoming is likely to worsen in the coming years. In a projection that we carried out internally, on the basis of the termination of the service planned taking into account the age of employees, it is evident that in the three years 2019-2021 the staff deficit will rise to 4,431 units, of which 39 managers, while in 2022-2024 it will grow further to reach 7,893 units, of which 66 managers. This, unfortunately, is a conservative estimate that I am making on the basis of the current rules of retirement; therefore, when the Fornero law was to be reformed, these numbers could also increase significantly. The Ministry has put in place, firstly - and here I respond to the request for information on the non-employment of executives in recent years - some immediate urgent measures aimed at recruiting managerial staff. In July we requested permission from the Ministry of Public Service to launch a competition for the selection of five archaeologists and four archaeologists. In August, the Ministry asked to be further authorized to launch a competition for 17 technical managers (archivists and administrators) and to hire another 9 (art historians) with scrolling of the ranking. From the same perspective, in July, we signed an agreement with the trade union organizations for the completion of an internal competition for the passage of personnel in service. Finally, the Ministry is actively collaborating with the Ministry of Public Service for an extraordinary plan aimed at recruiting managerial and non-management staff. In particular, as part of the three-year programme of needs, we have forwarded to the Ministry of Civil Service the request to launch a competition for the recruitment of a total of 4,377 units, of which 2,943 of area II and 1,434 of area III. We have also represented the intention of hiring 39 managers by sliding the rankings, in order to fully cover the managerial requirements that will have been determined in the mores by the termination of the service. It is my intention, when calling competitions, to identify an order of priority of the profiles considered most urgent, on the basis of the indications I have collected, in particular by the Superintendences. Also recently, last week, we found ourselves at the Ministry and, in the presence of all the superiors, we collected their indications. Thank you again for your question, Senator. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u25	Senator Corrado may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u26	Minister, thank you. I'm satisfied. I add only the wish to return as soon as possible to employment levels adapted to the importance of its Ministry, devoting to culture the resources it deserves in a country like ours. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u27	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u28	The Conference of Leaders approved changes to the schedule of proceedings in relation to the planned third reading of the decree-law extending legislative deadlines, still under consideration by the Chamber of Deputies. On Tuesday 18 September the Assembly will not hold a session to allow the work of the Commissions on the decree-law. The debate in the Assembly will begin on Wednesday 19, at 6 p.m., to continue on Thursday 20 and, if necessary, on Friday 21. At Wednesday's sitting, which does not include closing hours, the general debate will take place until the end of the debate. The examination times have been adjusted according to specific requests from the Groups. Amendments must be tabled no later than 10 a.m. on Wednesday 19. The question time is confirmed at 3 p.m. on Thursday 20. Finally, at 5 p.m. on Tuesday 2 October, the Minister for Foreign Affairs will make the planned information on developments in Libya.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u29	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar. [[Thursday 13 September h. 15 - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure]] [[Wednesday, September 19, h. 18 - Drawing of law n. 717-B - Decree-Law n. 91, extension of terms (approved by the Senate, where amended by the Chamber of Deputies) (expires on September 23) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 20, 15 hours) Thursday 20 " h. 9,30 Friday 21 " h. 9,30 (if necessary)]] Amendments to bill No 717-B (Decree-Law No 91, extension of time) should be tabled by 10 a.m. on Wednesday 19. [[Tuesday, September 25 h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 766 and related - Obligation to install safety devices for children in vehicles (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (from the writing site) - Drawings of law n. ... and... - Report 2017 and Settlement 2018 (where approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (final votes with the presence of the quorum) - Questions and questions - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 27, 15:00) Wednesday 26 " h. 9.30-20 Thursday 27 " h. 9.30-20]] The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law no. ... and... (2017 Report and 2018 Settlement) will be established in relation to the transmission times by the Chamber of Deputies. [[Tuesday, 2 October h. 17-20 - Statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on developments in Libya (Tuesday, 2 p.m., 5 p.m.) - Follow-up to unfinished topics - Questions and questions - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday, 4 p.m., 3 p.m., 9.30 a.m., 20 p.m., 9.30 a.m., 20 p.m.)]] The calendar can be integrated with the discussion of the Update Note of the 2018 Economy and Finance Document. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 717-B (Decree-Law No 91, extension of time limits) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote*) [[Rapporteur 30' Government 30' Votes 40' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 34' FI-BP 40' L-SP-PSd'Az 25' PD 40' FdI 25' Mixed 21' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 15' Dissentents 5']] * The timing breakdown shall take into account specific requests from the Groups. Breakdown of time limits for the discussion of draft law Nos. ... and... (2017 account and 2018 settlement) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 44' FI-BP 30' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' PD 28' FdI 18' Mixed 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 15' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the Doc. LVII, No 1-a (Note to update the 2018 Economy and Finance Document) (7 hours, including explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1h 13' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u32	LOMUTI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in Basilicata there is a situation of environmental disaster with serious risks to the territory and human health, as the Minister for the Environment, Sergio Costa, is well aware, since his first institutional journey has reserved it to Basilicata. In this region there are two SIN areas of national reclamation, Tito and Pisticci Scalo; 474 holes have been made between active, sterile and exhausted wells (I refer to the long-standing question of oil); oil is sought up to 4 kilometers of depth, with enormous costs and enormous risks on the water system of the lucano subsoil; there are three oil centers, one of which, that of Viggiano, large 18 hectares, is at the center of serious controversy due to its proximity to one of the largest water basins of the Basilicata, the Pertusillo. This oil center has a network of pipelines of as much as 750 kilometers that cross a very delicate very important water basin, that of the river Agri, that in addition to the invade of the Pertusillo, has 650 sources of pure water that produce 3,000 liters per second of drinking water. Then there are 44 landfills in our country that are not compliant, which have been the reason for the recent referral of Italy by the European Commission, 23 of which are located in Basilicata. In addition, in the most productive area of Basilicata, Metapontino, for quality agriculture and widespread tourism, which among other things is a European reclamation area for nitrates, we now live in constant emergency of trialometans, periodically present in the drinking water circuit. In the Melfi area there is an old incinerator, the Phoenix, which burns 35,000 tons of industrial waste plus 30,000 tons of municipal waste. In 2011 the general manager and a manager of ARPAB were arrested, in relation to water pollution data under Melfi's incinerator kept hidden for nine years. According to the Public Prosecutor of Potenza, and it is recent news, around the incinerator of Melfi there has been the spread of pollutants outside the structure, with the "compromise of drinking water and serious danger to public health." By virtue of this, the power gip, this summer, has arranged the seizure of the plants (later dissecquered) to secure and clean up the Melfi incinerator, but without blocking the incineration of the waste. Now, I have made this long premise to bring a cry for help from the Basilicata Region to this House, to ask for direct intervention, given the repeated insults to the environment for at least a decade brought about by this catafalk of incinerator, getting to order its definitive closure for the repeated risks caused to the environment. All this because now, thanks to the news and the actions of the prosecutor, today we know that at least for the contamination of the water floors of the Vulture area we have a guilty: the incinerator of Melfi. At this point it must be closed, once and for all, to protect the public health of people. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u33	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-09-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-36.ana.u34	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday 19 September, at 6 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 15.44 p.m.
