ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Castaldi, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 741, already approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u7	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask you for help with the good progress of the work, in order to have some additional time, as a Group of the Democratic Party, given that what we have at our disposal is almost or completely exhausted; the Group would undertake to make only five speeches for all the amendments that are being voted on today, with an attitude which simply aims to make a few, few points of substance.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u8	In view of the rationality of the request, if it is five speeches, the Presidency agrees. Senator Ferrari, I invite you to send the Presidency the number of amendments on which your Group wishes to speak. Colleagues, several amendments have received the contrary opinion of the Budget Commission, pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution; if there are no statements to the contrary, I will put them to the vote; therefore, if anyone wishes to withdraw them, let me know. We move on to Amendment 3.1, which is identical to Amendment 3.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators, identical to Amendment 3.2, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.3, tabled by Senator De Bertoldi and other senators, identical to Amendments 3.4, tabled by Senator Nencini, and 3.5, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.6, tabled by Senator Patriarch. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.7, on which the 5th Commission gave its opinion conditional on the rewording of the second part in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the presenter is opposed to amending the amendment in the sense indicated by the 5th Commission, having been requested, I would like to point out that the first part of Amendment 3.7, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators, has been voted by a simultaneous vote until the words "twenty-four monthly." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 3.8 are therefore not included. We move on to Amendment 3.9, which is identical to Amendments 3.10 and 3.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.9, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other Senators, identical to Amendment 3.10 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other Senators, and 3.11, tabled by Senator Bernini and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 3.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u11	Parent (PD). Mr President, we support Amendment 3.12 which proposes compensatory relief for workers and workers who do not see the contract renewed indefinitely. Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot do so much ideology on the lives of people. From the day of entry into force of the decree-law in question will happen in fact the following. Since you have reinstated the cases, for example a worker or a worker employed in a confectionery company to produce panettoni at Christmas that is not renewed the term contract, it goes to the court which renders the term null and declares that the worker must continue to work indefinitely, in accordance with the rules we are approving. After that, the day after the worker or the worker returns to the company and the entrepreneur can fire him for justified objective reason, because that place is not in the staff because the Panettoni in February are not produced. Since you have included in the causative the non-programmability of the activity, which moreover is also at the tip of anti-institutionality under Article 41 of the Constitution, from now on companies that have peaks of non-programmable activities as they will do to hire workers? They can't do it with time contracts because there is non-programmability, so will they hire them in black or with what other tool? My colleague, Senator Paragon, can do all the propaganda he wants in this House, but that will happen, because that is the truth of the facts. When I said yesterday that these rules undermine the principle of reality I meant exactly that. We are still trying in this House, Minister Di Maio, to think that you can repent, but the facts will say it, the citizens and the citizens, the workers and workers who will find themselves in this situation today. This decree-law will certainly bring more unemployment. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Of examples like this we can cite others, because the people in the flesh will tell us from here a few weeks. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u12	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.12, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.16, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested to do so, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 3.16 tabled by Senator De Poli and other senators, until the previous part of the debate. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder and amendments 3,17 to 3,15 are therefore not included. Let us move on to Amendment 3,18, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3,18 tabled by Senator Laus and other senators, until the words "season activities" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 3.19 are therefore not included. Let us move on to Amendment 3.20, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.20 tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 3.21, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.21, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 3.23, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.23, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators, until the words "in administration" are given. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder and amendments 3,24 to 3,26 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 3,27, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,27 tabled by Senator Ronzulli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 3.29, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,29 tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 3.28, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.28, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.30, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.30 tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 3.35, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 3.35, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators, up to the words "in the hypothesis". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 3.32 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to amendment 3.31, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.31, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.33, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.34, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.34, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I invite the representative of the Government to speak again on the agendas referred to in Article 3 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u13	Mr President, the G3.1 agenda is accepted as a recommendation; the G3.2 agenda is accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u14	Senator Bernini, do you insist on voting on the G3.1 agenda? BERNINI (FI-BP). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the authors do not insist on voting, the G3.1 agenda is accepted as a recommendation, while, having been accepted by the Government, the G3.2 agenda will not be put to the vote. Amendment 3.0.1 is not possible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.0.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u17	NANNICINI (PD). Mr President, yesterday Senator Paragon said that the reforms of recent years have made workers invisible. If it were true - and it is not - by reading the provision that we are examining it would mean that we were really good, because in this decree - here yes - of the workers and their problems there is not even a shadow. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The theme of quality of work and how stable work is encouraged is invisible. The subject of skills and training is invisible. The issue of wages, low wages and fairness in pay treatment is invisible. Those millions of low-income workers are invisible, waiting for an honest wage for honest work and not an income for not working. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This decree-law is a fake news. It is said to do as in Europe, bringing the fixed time to twenty-four months, but there is a violation of a Community directive on administration, as Senator Parente explained. They say they care about the work, but then they make a messy transitional rule, which is creating chaos between companies and workers, with the result of destroying jobs. It is said to introduce new incentives for the recruitment of young people and for the transformation of fixed time indefinitely, without saying that those incentives already exist, because governments have put them at the head of the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And in this decree-law we simply extend them marginally, without ever mentioning them in the legislative text. Attention, I say it in parenthesis, but this fixation to mark the year zero with its own grasp of power, erasing everything that comes before has never brought good in history. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In the fury of wanting to cancel everything, we can end up canceling even decades of scientific progress, as happened in this House on vaccines. [[Applause from the PD Group]] They say, again, to fire the jobs act, but they don't even touch the hinges of that reform. Social shock absorbers remain, the new lines between employed and self-employed work remain, the establishment of active policies remains and the contract remains for increasing protection, which is not abolished by this intervention, so much so that the majority voted against an amendment aimed at re-introduction of Article 18; amendment - this yes - visible. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Anyone who lost it while voting can search for it in the minutes. Stop saying you're against the jobs act, because you just voted for it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Look, the fake news has always been there: they were called political propaganda. The great mass parties have always fought for cultural hegemony, propaganda their vision of reality and history, but they knew how to distinguish between the moment when they have to sell their choices, even with propaganda, and the time when they have to take those choices, preventing their propaganda from fussing the decision-making moment, producing perverse side effects on people's lives. This sense of institutional responsibility and this ability to distinguish between propaganda and the moment of choice in this decree is completely absent. That's why it's a fake news and unfortunately the reality will have to prove it. In this House, and especially in the Commission, we have not had the opportunity to discuss the substance of the proposals made by the Democratic Party and the other oppositions. We clashed - to say it with Senator Floris - with the true obstructionism, conceptual and merit, of the majority, who did not want to improve a comma or enter into the merit of our proposals. We have made proposals on stable work, on how to reduce the contributory wedge over time indefinite (the Minister said yesterday, in reply, that the government intends to do so and we will see in the budget law if there will be money) and that is why they put a transitional rule on 31 October. I would then like to say to you, Minister, that that transitional rule is a recast: you should have put it on 31 December. And we could have improved that refutation and the many messes present in this decree-law if someone hadn't had the anxiety to flaunt results that aren't there and had left time for this Parliament and this Senate to work. The other proposals that we have illustrated were those of a compensatory relief, a minimum wage, of extending the discipline of subordinate labour to the fake self-employed organized through platforms and tightening the false cooperatives, because for us the real precarious is nested in these frailties of the labour market, not in the manifest interventions of this decree-law. We weren't allowed to talk about these things. We will continue to carry them forward in the country and for the country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u20	CATALFO (M5S). Mr President, I rise to vote against Senator Nannicini's amendment 3.0.4 and to respond to the notes put forward by the Democratic Party regarding a decree-law that places dignity and the worker at the heart of the debate. With regard to the directive on the administration of work and the contrast between administration and fixed time, I would remind the honourable senators of Directive No 70 of 1999 and Directive No 104 of 2008 that the directive reaffirms that equal protection is to be established, both for employees in the administration and for fixed-term workers and we, in fact, in this decree-law, comply with that directive. With regard to incentives, within the decree-law we take particular care of the discomfort and unemployment that affected the youth groups in our country with an incentive that was introduced to the House. With regard to the needs and proposals represented by the oppositions, we also agreed to include a number of amendments, amending the text in the event of conciliation, and we brought the conciliation offer, which was previously from 2 to 18 months, to 3 to 27 months. With regard to other improvements compared to previous regulations, also in subsequent articles, for example with reference to employment centres, we start to take a first step improvement compared to the past, since workers do not see in the Italian employment centers the place to refer to in order to find work and be inserted. The Commission works, with the participation of the Minister, is carrying out cognitive investigations in order to better know the matter and to ensure that, as happens in other European countries, also in Italy employment services work and these - let me say - are the foundations for a good reform of the work that, with the decree dignity, moves the first steps. As for the causal ones, already in the past, when inserted, have demonstrated - just read the data of the monitorings - that, after the insertion, there has been an increase of the job to indefinite time and a decrease of the precarious one in Italy. I remind my colleagues that the precariousness, as the data show, has increased as an important percentage, too important, in Italy and that we are perhaps one of the countries in which there has been and is more precarious, where there are countries, such as Germany, that use the term contract to the extent of 11%. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u23	BRESSA (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I rise to vote in favour of Amendment 3.0.4 tabled by Mr Nannicini, and to try to make a very brief thought, which, in my view, however, attempts to give meaning to the votes we are about to make. I start from a reflection made by Professor Massimo D'Antona in his essay, according to which the central question for the future of labour law is to balance the protections of work beyond subordination, without sacrificing the specific protection of labour law. The urgency of setting up a new regulatory principle concerns the political dimension of the game. Exactly, the political dimension of the game: this I would have expected from a Government of change and not this sort of ludddist obsession to destroy everything done by the Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri Governments. Senator Paragon, it's scary, not the word dignity, but your lack of work culture. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD]] But we know, to impossible nemo tenetur and the obligation that you, Minister Di Maio, contracted with the country has turned into an impossible performance and, with this measure, it becomes all clearer, especially for workers. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u24	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.0.4 tabled by Senator Nannicini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.0.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u27	Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, Amendment 3.0.3 puts me in a position to make a brief analysis from the point of view of merit and form, knowing that in politics form is substance. In this respect, with this amendment, we propose decontributions to the employee of one percentage point for the year 2019, two percentage points for the year 2020, three percentage points for the year 2021 and four percentage points for the year 2022. From this amendment, with all the proposals ringed by my colleague Nannicini, the political proposal of the Democratic Party, which is legitimate, emerges in a clear, unambiguous and unmistakable way - I refer to yesterday's speech by Minister Di Maio, who was very correct and polite - just as your proposal is equally legitimate, diametrically opposed to ours. We know and are aware that every Government that has installed itself, in the history of the Republic, has had the main objective of the common good and, among others, that of combating precariousness and giving decent work to the Italians. On the merits, however, the theme is what therapy is being given: the patient turns to a doctor, who gives him a therapy; another doctor gives him another type of therapy; after a time it will be understood - sometimes, not always - if there is wrong therapy. We are convinced, legitimately, unlike you, that the therapy contained in the decree of dignity is toxic, both harmful, and lethal for the dignity of work and for Italians. [[Applause from the PD Group]] However, we recognize its legitimacy. As for the form, which is essentially political, there are two political forces which have made political battles in recent years and in the election campaign - and have distinguished themselves by their relative figure - and have materialized in the yellow-green contract. Here, according to us, there is no consistency and I invite the Italians to read even one page of the yellow-green contract: on the subject of work, according to us, there are inconsistencies or, however, nothing or little or only a breath has been made, which finds little form and concreteness in the decree-law dignity. In fact, there are substantial contradictions. And what's the other contradiction? That you make a decree of urgency and at a time when a government proposes an urgency on some issues, it is spontaneous to think that the first thing is taken at least from the preamble of that page dedicated to the work. Well, I don't have to read it, and you don't have to read it, the Italians have to do it. Mr Di Maio, do you know when you will find out who is right or wrong, beyond the dialectic dance in this House? In six months. In six months' time there will be an unmistakable judgment: there will be data and that data on employment and employment will have to be compared with data on employment and quality of employment on 4 March. At that moment, with the monitoring, the Italians will see who is right and who is wrong. Today, we are in opposition and you have the power. However, unfortunately for the Italians and with concern for us, that will be the sentence. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u28	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.0.3 tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.0.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u31	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I support this amendment, which is aimed at combating false cooperatives, and we need it, after all, ladies and gentlemen, to reason on what we are doing. You, Vice-President, have already stated on several occasions that action must be taken against false cooperatives for unfair competition, for the rights of workers who are being torn apart and for problems with organised crime. Now, why do you vote no to this amendment? For a very simple reason: for a propaganda reason, a propaganda that will result in a boomerang for you. You have not put your trust in this measure, but you have done worse than if you had put your trust in it, because in the Commissions you have not allowed a real debate to take place. We have made a mockery: in the Commissions we have not even discussed the opinions of the Technical Bureau of the Budget, which raised issues which the Government has not answered: not an answer. So much for Parliament's respect! [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u32	He asked the government representative, Undersecretary Castelli, to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u33	Mr President, we ask Mr Errani if he can think of turning the amendment into an agenda because the Government is interested in this issue. I know that the relevant Commission will deal with it and the Government wants to commit itself to this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u34	I would ask Senator Errani if he accepts the request for amendment 3.0.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u35	Mr President, of course I accept, because it can always be improved: now you are wrong, if you are able to improve we will see it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u36	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G3.0.6 will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u39	Mr ASTORRE (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Government for accepting this agenda. I believe that in the industry committee we must work on the draft law on false cooperatives, which we have worked on in the last parliamentary term, which, as my colleagues know, is also on the agenda of Senator Errani. This is an issue to be addressed and which we hope to resolve.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u40	Patriarch Senator, I would say that amendment 3.0.5 to his first signature is quite similar, he wants to withdraw it and bring it into the agenda G3.0.6 of Senator Errani? Patriarca (PD). Yes, Mr President, I would therefore ask you to add my signature to the agenda G3.0.6. COLLINA (PD). Mr President, I would also ask you to sign the agenda G3.0.6. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that. Amendment 3.0.5 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.0.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u43	BERTACCO (FdI). Mr President, we were wondering whether it would be possible to accept the amendment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u44	I invite the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u45	Mr President, the Government's opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u46	Senator Bertacco, do you maintain the amendment? BERTACCO (FdI). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.0.7 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.0.2 tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.0.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u47	The Government proposes to turn this amendment into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u48	Will the presenters accept the invitation? BERTACCO (FdI). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that. Having been accepted, the agenda for G3.0.8 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 3-a, which has already been presented, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u49	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Rule 3-a, while the G3-a.1 agenda is accepted as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u50	Let us move on to Amendment No 3-a.300, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 3- bis.300, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3 (a).3.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u53	LONARDO (FI-BP). Mr President, first of all I would like to ask whether, by turning this amendment into an agenda, it can be accepted, especially because it talks about the fight against the caporalate and never, as I see it today, is really important, as you have all observed, to hold us back on this issue. It was very brilliantly done by Minister Centinario in the Commission and, in fact, we all accepted the monitoring of this law, which obviously had to be done but, to be honest, the 5 Star Movement opposed because it was not in the contract. I believe, Mr President, and, through you, Minister, that there are no contracts which respect such matters. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] This phenomenon must be combated and Amendment 3 (3 bis) refers in fact to an organisation designed within the employment centres, where it is clearly necessary to set up a reservation, recruitment and recruitment programme. This amendment - and I say this again through the President, the Government and the Minister - has brought the Commission's favourable opinion back. I do not therefore hold back on a phenomenon that we know very well, there are not the times: we will do so in the Commission, when the Minister will be present to speak not with the contingency times, which we do not like, but with the willingness that these issues deserve. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u54	I call on the Government representative to comment on the request she has just made.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u55	Mr President, the Government proposes that Amendment 3 ( bis) 3 be changed to the agenda only to the second paragraph which the Senator put in the amendment, leaving out the third and fourth paragraphs. The agenda is accepted with this wording.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u56	Having been accepted, the agenda for G3- bis.3 will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 3-a.1, tabled by Senator D'Arienzo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 3-a.2 tabled by Senator D'Arienzo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G3 bis.1 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 3b of the Decree-Law, which has already been presented, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u57	The opinion was opposed to the amendments and the G3-b agenda. 1 is accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u58	Let us move on to amendment 3-b.100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As the request has been made, I call for the vote to be taken by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 3b. 100, presented by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G3-b.1 will not be put to the vote. Amendments 3-b.0.1, 3-b.0.2 and 3-b.0.4 cannot be proposed. Let us move on to amendment 3-b.0.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3-b.0.5, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). COMINANCES (PD). Mr President, the voting mechanism did not work. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that, Senator Begin. Let us move on to amendment 3-b.0.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3 ter.0.6 tabled by Senator Nencini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which has already been presented, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u59	Mr President, I am against all the amendments tabled in Article 4. The G4.1 agenda was adopted as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u60	Let us move on to Amendment 4.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u63	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we have tabled three very important amendments to Article 4. The 4.1, which has been accepted in part in the famous amendment to the decree-law of a thousandprorogates, is the one to which we attach the greatest importance because it seeks to do a more comprehensive job to address the issue of precariousness within the school. Whoever has put their hands on the Italian education system in all these years has not actually dealt with what has become a real scourge of the system and which, of course, weakens it. We are talking about events that go from Fioroni to Gelmini: a series of ministers who have produced rules that have crossed over, one after the other, complex problems that, far from facing and reducing the phenomenon, have only expanded it. We are talking about precarious people who now include about 40,000 members of the AGE, to whom we must add another 420,000 aspiring teachers present in the school lists, as well as 120,000 magisterial graduates. The whole question of school precariousness cannot say that it has nothing to do with decree-law dignity, from the moment the objective that the Minister had set himself at the beginning was to fight the precariousness. The precariousness in the school, Minister, is one of the greatest plagues that we have, perhaps even the most significant and the phenomenon of precariousness also compromises, in our opinion, the overall quality of the school itself. With this amendment, we are putting forward a proposal (for goodness' sake, certainly a proposal, but a rather complex one) which has already been accepted in part in the amendment adopted to the Decree-Law - and I hope that you will do nothing to cancel that vote, because in part it addresses and solves these problems - to put your hand once and for all on the issue of precariousness within the school. This is a problem, Minister, which is not resolved - and that is why we have also tabled Amendment 4.12 - only by proposing a buffer solution, such as that which merely prolongs the dismissal of teachers concerned by the Council of State by one hundred and twenty days, because it does not shelter the school year either. We need an overall solution, and with this amendment we begin to give directions, to take the first steps to heal what is the tip of one of the biggest icebergs in our country that is the precarious. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u64	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4.2, which is identical to Amendment 4.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.2, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators, identical to Amendment 4.3, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u67	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, through you I wanted to point out the consistency of Mr Di Maio, whom I welcome, because for all the decree-law dignity has been maintained the common line, namely that of dismissal and the increase of precariousness. And if for so many articles it was perhaps the fault of a hand, I was surprised to see that in Article 4 the hand was just yours, Minister, because your Ministry gave the endorsement to the transformation of employment contracts for the staff of the school indefinitely - I read from the text - transformed into fixed-term employment contracts with a final deadline set at 30 June 2019................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So it is clear, certified and written by them that the decree-law dismisses and creates more precarious. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Minister, I am intellectually honest: I know that there is a sentence and the sentences are respected both when you are a majority and when you are opposed. I know that you regret a lot that beautiful opposition with the hashtag I am with the teachers, that you have used throughout the election campaign: there have been so much, with the teachers, that in his first decree-law, Minister, you have decided to fire them, without guaranteeing absolutely the continuity of teaching. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And above all, do not want to use - because, Minister, we are not here to do obstructionism - the instruments that the Democratic Party has left you, because we, with this amendment, ask you not to fire at 30 June 2019, to ensure the continuity of teaching, and to use those opportunities that the provision on good school has also given to you, namely to extend contracts. [[Comments of Senator Ronzulli]] This using your model, what you have in mind, of the successive competitions, in order to be able to hold the contracts until the end of August and repeat them: it is legislative decree no. 66 of 2017, the law delegation on inclusion, which can also be applied to this case. So you can explain to the teachers why you didn't want to use it and from June 30 you will leave them at home. We have also asked you something else, because we have understood that you have finally understood, three years later, the usefulness of Law No 107 of 2015, so much so that within one of your technical reports you write that Law No 107, that is, good school, has allowed the basis for the zeroing of the precarious. But since you are not interested in zeroing the precarious, because you voted against that law. [[Comments of Senator Maiorino.]] So, you didn't want to reset the precarious, and what did you do? With article 4-a you have done nothing but increase it. [[Applause from the PD Group. Senator Ronzulli's comments.]] In fact, if you do not clearly set a certain date for competitions, you will recreate another ranking that will increase that precariousness. I would add, Minister, that you must explain to us what you have against young people. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] What it has against young people, since in the competitions you expect, not selective, you say that graduates in primary education sciences can participate only if they have twenty-four months of service and you do not realize that graduates in primary education sciences, with this standard that you create, will no longer be able to work at this point. Not only that: you do not even realize how the faculty of primary education sciences is composed, which already provides for the internship for these students, who are therefore ready to enter the classroom. You have to explain it to us. You must also explain to us another thing: why have you rejected and expressed the opinion that is contrary to all our amendments that strengthen the places in the South? Minister, we asked you for 6,000 seats a year. We do not ask you to reach the levels of the Renzi Government, which has hired 140,000 in one year. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Minister, we're asking for 6,000! Montevecchi (M5S). What are you talking about? RONZULLI (FI-BP). That's enough, we're voting against it! MALPEZZI (PD). This government is an executive of sorcerer apprentices. We realized that yesterday with vaccines. We realize this today because you make sorcerer apprentices on the skin of Italians and children. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u70	Floridia (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking in an explanation of vote on a very difficult situation. We have inherited a complex situation and, like all complex realities, do not have simple solutions. This is known to all and it is clear. Unfortunately, they will not be, alas, amendments to a decree-law to be able to solve all the situations of the school we are aware of, also because many of us ourselves have experienced the consequences of good school. That said, there are emergencies... [[Comments of Senator Pharaoh]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u71	Senator Pharaoh, allow, as Senator Malpezzi has been allowed, to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u72	[[Senator Pharaoh's comments.]] [[Brusio.]] Senator Floridia, continue. Floridia (M5S). #I am with the teachers precisely because, by virtue of the need to respect the sentence, we have found a solution that consists, meanwhile, in being able to maintain the school continuity and therefore allow next year these teachers to remain in their place, with their boys. Meanwhile, an extraordinary contest is being considered, allowing these teachers to return from the front door to the school where they have the right to return. The extraordinary competition, of course, protects and is necessary for a part of teachers, those who, in fact, are precarious. Therefore, the graduates in training sciences, who, as we know, have done in their course of study 500 hours of internship, are not comparable to teachers who have been in the school for several years: we cannot put 500 hours of internship on the same level with years of precariousness. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] [[Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] Precisely for this reason, there will be regular biennial competitions in which our young graduates, who also have the right to enter the world of work, will find their place and place. Therefore this is a decree-law that will not solve the situations of the school as a whole. We know. This is a decree-law with which we have tried to respond to an urgency that we have inherited and which we take care of without any problems. Me, we're with the teachers even now that we're in the government. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We'll get the Commissions to work in detail on all the rest of the problems. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u73	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u74	Senator Pharaoh, what order of business are you referring to? FARAONE (PD). Mr President, I know very well that I am often indisciplined and you are right to turn to me when, as happened earlier, I yelled at a colleague. However, I expect the same treatment from you when the opposite happens. As my colleague, Mr Malpezzi, has spoken with several colleagues who have been screaming at you and shouting at everything and you have not said a word, I would ask you to use the same treatment for all the senators in this House. It is all too often that those who chair have a more hostile attitude towards their colleagues and members of the Democratic Party than others. So I call you back to an attitude that's more uniform for all senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u75	[[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u76	I guarantee you there's no misconception. But I'm always safe with her, Senator Pharaoh. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups. Laughter.]] I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 4.4, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators, until the words: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 4.5 and 4.6 are therefore not included. Let us move on to Amendment 4.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u79	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, I also asked to speak in order to explain all the amendments tabled by Brothers Italy, but you did not see me. So I take this opportunity now, in an explanation of vote on Amendment 4.7, to make a point... PRESIDENT. - On the illustration I called everyone and did not raise anyone's hand. THE PIETRA (FdI). I called you, Mr. President, allow me, I tried to show myself. Anyway, I'll just have two minutes of surgery. With regard to the problem caused by the decision of the Council of State, I would remind all of us that it concerns about 50,000 teachers in kindergarten and primary school, enrolled in graduations with reserve, and about 7,000 teachers engaged indefinitely with a decisive clause, after passing the test year. Brothers of Italy considers it necessary to intervene with a definitive and adequate solution, not with a buffer solution such as the one provided for in the decree-law, which unfortunately puts only a temporary piece, postponing the solution of the problem which, in our opinion, must be at the same time respectful of the more than 100,000 teachers graduated in Primary Education. The truth - and here I am surprised by the attitude of my fellow Senators in the PD - is that all this has been created by good school. The responsibility is yours. [[Applause from the FdI, L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and FI-BP Groups]] Good school has created only a war between the poor, not solving the real structural and organizational problems of the school sector. It is also right to assume our own responsibilities. But, while respecting the responsibilities, it is paradoxical that you, the government gentlemen, colleagues of the majority, do not want to give a certain answer to this problem and do not want to recognize the professionalism of those who have taught our children for years. So what do we do? Let's redo the elementary school to all the young students of those teachers who today do not have the recognition of their professionalism? (This is clearly just a provocation.) In this case too, compared to the emphasis with which the Minister announced the measure, with respect, of course, to the teachers that some benefit may also have, would be to say that there was a lot of noise for almost nothing, having not solved the problem at its root. The amendments proposed by Brothers of Italy go in the direction of healing this situation. I am referring, in particular, to the amendments with which we call for all teachers who have already passed the test year to be confirmed; or to those with which we call for the extension of the AGE two years and the inclusion in the AGE of teachers who have one or more of the requirements listed in the amendment. We therefore call on the Government and the majority to approve these amendments, because they are essentially common sense amendments, which go precisely in the direction announced by the Minister, that of combating precariousness. In this case they are precarious of state, they are precarious created directly by us, by the government. In this direction we must make dignity to the teachers and the precarious of the school. Finally, I would like to remind you that we cannot hide - as I say to our colleagues in the majority - behind the sentences, because the judiciary applies the laws, but we do them. So if we have the political will, we can solve the problem. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u80	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.7, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 4.8, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators, up to the words "2018/2019". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 4.9 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.10, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 4.11, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.12, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 4.13, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators, up to the words 'to stabilize'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 4.14 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 4.15, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.15, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 4.16 tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators, until the following words are put forward: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 4.17 and 4.18 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 4.19, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators, up to the words "the following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 4.21 to 4.23 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to amendment 4.24, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.24, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.25, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.26, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.27, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.27, tabled by Senator Causin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.28, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.28, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 4.29, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators, until the words "by the date of the amendment." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder and amendments 4.30, 4.31, 4-a.1, 4-a.2 and 4-a.3. Let us move on to amendment 4.32, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.32, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.33, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.33, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.35, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 4.35, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators, up to the words "in role." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 4.36 are therefore not included. Let us move on to amendment 4.34, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.34, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4.37, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.37, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4.38, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote on the first part.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u83	Mr Berardi (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to speak in an explanation of vote on Amendment 439. Senator Berardi, speak now because it could be precluded by the rejection of amendment 438. Mr Berardi (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, I wanted to present the reasons for amendment 4.38, and read a message from one of these teachers to whom Article 4 refers: As they unleash the virtual rosary and remove all the encounters, speeches, fears and tears and all the life that flows before me and the future that they want to deprive me of, I feel a boulder on my chest. I think of the distant family: sacrifices and still tears. Discomfort is mixed with that thin thread of hope, which does not want to abandon me at all. A thread of stubborn hope, like me. I think of too many injustices and feel life hanging from a thread and feel my life under Golgo (maybe he knows it is one of the deepest chasms in Europe). This letter is just one of the hundreds that came to me from these teachers, who today feel deprived of something. These teachers are women and men, who have a life, a family, children and also have the hope of continuing to teach and keep their jobs. At this moment, however, they feel deprived of two things: dignity and work. Today, by voting in favour of this amendment, you have the opportunity to restore dignity and work to 55,000 teachers. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u84	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 4.38, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators, up to the words 'teachers'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 439 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to amendment 4.40, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.40, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.42, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.41, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.43, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.44, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.45, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.46, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4,47.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u87	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the discipline of the extraordinary competition for the coverage of places for children's school and primary school, which will be banned and reserved exclusively for teachers who in the last eight years have worked at least two years of service in the state school alone. Perhaps this Government escapes the fact that the Italian school system is pluralistic and consists of state public schools and equal public schools [[Applause from the FI-BP Group),]] pursuant to Article 33 of the Italian Constitution, Law No 62 of 2000 and several European resolutions. Perhaps this government escapes (and worse would be if it had been done in a sense) that the teachers of the school of childhood and primary excluded from the dictation of the law have the same titles as the colleagues of the state school. Perhaps this Government escapes the fact that the pupils of the schools where these teachers are taught obtain an equivalent qualification and are admitted to the next grade without examination of fitness. How can these aspects be contradicted by excluding the teachers of the equalization school? Perhaps this Government escapes that the current wording goes in the direction of excluding (and thus discriminate) an important category, the 200,000 teachers who work today in the public equalization school. Perhaps this Government escapes the fact that this is a limit to professional freedom and is a real professional discrimination. I would add that a recent decision of the Council of State has accepted the appeal of a teacher for the recognition of the years of service carried out in the peer school and therefore, according to this ruling, it is unacceptable a dictation that discriminates against teachers who serve at one of the two legs of the Italian public system. It is an exclusion that penalizes a category of teachers who will certainly have the title of making a flood of appeals, which ignores that the school system of a country of law such as Italy must be pluralist in the management of a public service, as is also the case in health, and that the rule of law cannot, neither favour, nor discriminate social categories and public educational institutions of law, as happens in the measure, in which reference is made to state educational institutions. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and the Senators Faithful and Pittella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u88	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.47, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.48, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.49, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 4.50, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators, up to the words "up to" in the following words: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 4.51 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to amendment 4.52, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote on the first part.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u90	You have the right to do so. Senator Lonardo, it has been a long time since the time available to your Group has been exhausted. I would therefore ask you to make brief speeches.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u91	LONARDO (FI-BP). Mr President, thank you very much, I will be very quick. After five budget laws, six thousand-pronged decrees, a South decree and a vaccine decree, the appeals are still here: 600 of them have been imposed on our coffers since 2011. Minister Bussetti knows very well what he is talking about, because he also participated in the 2011 competition. Law No. 107 of 2017 was a clear iniquity for the entire teaching class. We bell towers, with commissions not only investigated but even charged, with commissions dismissed during the conduct of oral tests by the director of the regional school office, are still waiting for justice to be done. Today, by adopting these amendments, we can finally restore a situation of balance and serenity. That is why I am voting in favour and I hope that the Government and this House will also vote in favour. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u92	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 4.52, tabled by Senators Lonardo and Vitali, until the words "In order to do this." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments from 4.53 to 4.55 are therefore not included. Let us move on to amendment 4.56, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.56, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.57, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.57, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.58, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.58, tabled by Senator Verducci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.59, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.59, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The G4.1 agenda is not available. Let us move on to amendment 4.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.1, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.0.2 is not possible. Let us move on to amendment 4.0.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.4 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 4.0.3 to 4.0.8 are unacceptable. Let us move on to amendment 4.0.9 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.9 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4.0.10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.10, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4.0.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.11, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.12, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 4-a of the Decree-Law, which have already been presented, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u93	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u94	Amendments 4-a.1, 4-a.2 and 4-a.3 are precluded by the rejection of the first part of amendment 4.29. Let us move on to amendment 4-a.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 4-a.1 tabled by Senator Malpezzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4-a.0.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 4- bis.0.2, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4-a.0.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4- bis.0.3, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4-a.0.0.4 is unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which has already been presented, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u95	On behalf of the Government, I object to all the amendments and propose that Amendment 5.0.1 be turned into an agenda. As regards agendas, the Government welcomes as a recommendation the agendas G5.1, G5.2, G5.3, G5.4, G5.6, G5.7, G5.9, and G5.11 and G5.13. Finally, I am in favour of the G5.12.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u96	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 05.1, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 05.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u99	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, I also thank the representatives of the Government who are present. I am glad that Minister Di Maio has also stayed here today to follow this part of the work of this House. In this Chamber, an important Abruzzo senator, Silvio Spaventa, was seated. He was a senator who founded a large part of administrative law and explained to generations of law scholars and even to generations of politicians and public decision-makers that the resolution of a Parliament is not sure that it becomes, with immediateness, with ease, norm in the order. In the sense that the resolution of the Legislative Assembly may also be guided by good intentions, but then it may be difficult to become an effective reality, to have an ability to improve the actual reality. I think that the rule of the decree-law concerning the dignity of undertakings with regard to respect for the worker, the territory, the national order, that is, the rule establishing sanctions, which ensures that each of the entrepreneurs who produce wealth behaves responsibly, is a rule which, in its intention, would like to prevent entrepreneurs from being mere takers. But does that rule make it? We don't think he's gonna make it, for two basic reasons. Firstly, because it is not estimated and it has not been found that there is already a working rule of January 2014, which lays down effective sanctions and which imposes a genuine liability contract. We want you to predict, alongside what you have foreseen, the risk of a standard of the kind proposed, without, for example, the necessary "counter-song" of an investment attraction plan to facilitate those from outside who come in. We are aware that delocalizing, it is true, does not mean internationalizing, but we must sanction those who delocalize, for example, after having taken advantage, as is the norm already in force since 2014, avoiding that kind of legislative advertising that speaks of financial penalties that double or arrive at quadrupling the level of the economic sanction to the detriment of the beneficiary. In fact, you then entrust the recovery process to the peripheral offices of MISE, which are the chambers of commerce and which do not have, on this, any financial forecast to settle the dispute. You can't expect the sanctioned to stand there like St. Pancrazio, who says yes in front of every attempt to recover. Then there is a rule that already sanctions, there is a rule that provides for the period within which a virtuous behavior must be held. The work that has already been done in the past on a plan of attracting investment from the international dimension, not only within the European framework, but also within a broader framework, putting tax, economic, technological, training and educational conveniences into the field of public administration, implementing the efficiency of the infrastructure system; in a word, it is called a development contract, which in Italy there is, as an instrument and institute, but we must ensure that there is economic and financial stock to give it further strength. That is why Amendment 05.2 aims to improve; we could only oppose it, but we also wanted to improve, by betting on the work of the Commissions, which has proved to be drowning, inadequate and not up to speed, because it took only a few hours of your dedication to submit it to the genuine work of the Commissions and Parliament. We believe that it is possible to improve this decree-law - which will take the form of the law at a few hours from now - but we want an amendment like this to find a role, find capacity and find a site. I therefore hope that Parliament will have a whisper of autonomy and investigation. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u102	Marsilio (FdI). Mr President, the speech by Senator d'Alfonso, who reminds us of very high issues, such as respect for the Constitution and the laws, stimulates reflection. I would like to ask you, Senator D'Alfonso, whether you have already received the letter of the Junta for parliamentary elections and immunities or whether you intend to hide behind the bureaucracy to delay a decision. [[Applause from the FdI, M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u103	It's got nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u104	Marsilio (FdI). But I make a friendly appeal, not just polemic, because these things are not good for the reputation of politics. You know that you're incompatible. He agreed to be elected to the Senate...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u105	I'm gonna take your word off for extraneous matter. [[Live Senator Laus' comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u108	RONZULLI (FI-BP). Senator Marsilio preceded me: I did not understand if the colleague spoke as a senator or as president of the Region, and I wanted to know when he wanted to resign. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u109	His speech is equally foreign. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 05.2 tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.1, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.2, tabled by Senator Ferrari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.3 tabled by Senator Ferrari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 5.4, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators, until the words "public contribution" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 5.6 to 5.10. are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 5.5, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators, up to the words 'public support'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 5.7 and 5.8 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 5.11.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u112	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to speak in advance on Amendment 5.13 which could be precluded by the rejection of Amendment 5.11. PRESIDENT. - The next item is Senator Gasparri. Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to thank you for giving me a short space for your speech, since the time is up. I would like to speak in support of Amendment 5.13 - which could be precluded following the rejection of Amendment 5.11 - in order to draw the attention of the Government and of my colleagues, especially my colleagues in the League who shared with us a political-electoral programme for the protection of work and business, and to note that the right fight is certainly right for those who act on the principle of "take money and run away" - those who take incentives in Italy, close companies and go abroad must be severely punished - but the rules already exist, colleagues. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] There are the constraints of the five years; one could extend to ten years the commitments of permanence of the investment, but here one risks making one of the many mistakes of this measure, fighting not the relocation, not the "take the money and run away," but the internationalization, which is a requirement of our companies and our work. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] I do not want to add a lot of considerations, but I turn to the many colleagues who are sitting here next to me (who then the Senators of the Movimento 5 Star have other programs we know): even today in the daily newspaper "Il Foglio" a series of presidents of business and industrial associations (including those of Veneto, Lombardy and Friuli-Venezia Giulia) have rightly made a reminder, explaining in detail the errors contained in the provision. Yesterday the Vice President of our party, Antonio Tajani, quantified in 130,000 the jobs that are likely to be lost. And so it will be. There is already the blockage of extensions and, at best, some people will be taken and others sent home or disused companies. A psychological climate of enmity is being created with enterprise and work. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This is the reality of this decree; other than dignity! It is the decree of poverty, lies and unemployment! Vote for our amendments and throw away a text that hurts Italy. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u113	I would like to point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 5.11, tabled by Senator Ferrari, to the following words: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder and amendments 5,12 to 5,15 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u114	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.16, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.17, tabled by Senator Ferrari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.18, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.19 tabled by Senator Ferrari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.20, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators, identical to amendment 5.21, tabled by Senator Ferrari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.22, tabled by Senator Ferrari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.23, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.24, tabled by Senator Ferrari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.25, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 5.26 tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators, to the following words: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 5.27 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.28 tabled by Senator Ferrari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.29, tabled by Senator Ferrari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.30, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.31, tabled by Senator Ferrari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.32, tabled by Senator Ferrari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.33, tabled by Senator Ferrari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.34, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.35, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 5.37, tabled by Senator Ferrari, until the words: "successive modifications" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 5.36 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.38, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.39, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.40, tabled by Senator Ferrari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.41, tabled by Senator Ferrari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 5.42, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.42, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 5.43, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.43, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.44, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.45, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators, identical to amendment 5.46, tabled by Senator Ferrari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.47, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.48, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 5.51, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators, up to the words "with the following..." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments from 5.53 to 5.52 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.54, tabled by Senator Ferrari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.55, tabled by Senator Ferrari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.56, tabled by Senator Ferrari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.57, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.58, tabled by Senator Ferrari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.59, tabled by Senator Ferrari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 5.60, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 5,60 tabled by Senator Ferrari, until the following words are added: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 5,61 to 5,63 are therefore excluded. Agendas G5.5, G5.8 and G5.10 have been withdrawn. I would remind you that the Government has undertaken to accept as a recommendation the agendas of the G5.1, G5.2, G5.3, G5.4, G5.6, G5.7, G5.9 and G5.11. On the other hand, it accepted the G5.12. I would ask the first signatory, Senator D'Alfonso, whether he accepts this proposal or insists on their vote. D'ALFONSO (PD). Yes, Mr President, I accept the Government's proposal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the authors do not insist on the vote, the agendas for G5.1, G5.2, G5.3, G5.4, G5.6, G5.7, G5.9 and G5.11 are accepted as a recommendation. The G5.12. agenda is also accepted. The Government has also undertaken to accept the G5.13 agenda as a recommendation. I would ask the first signatory, Senator Ciriani, whether he accepts this proposal or insists on the vote. CIRIANI (FdI). Yes, Mr President, I accept the Government's proposal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G5.13 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. On Amendment 5.0.1 the Government has made a request for conversion into order of the group. I ask Senator Ciriani if he accepts this proposal. CIRIANI (FdI). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted as a recommendation by the Government, the G5.0.1 agenda will not be put to the vote. We move on to amendment 5.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.2 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.3 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, which has already been presented, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u115	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u116	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.1 tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators, identical to Amendment 6.2, tabled by Senator Ferrari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 6.5, tabled by Senator Ferrari, until the words (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 6.7 to 6.9 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 6.3, tabled by Senator Ferrari, until the words 'employment'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 6.4 to 6.12. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.13, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.14, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.15, tabled by Senator Ferrari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 6.17, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators, up to the words 'in the words 'in the words 'in the words 'in the words 'in the words 'in the words 'in the words 'in the words 'in the words 'in the words 'in the words ''. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 6,18 to 6,16 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.20, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 6.21, tabled by Senator Ferrari, until the words "For the purposes" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 6.23 and 6.22 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.24, tabled by Senator Ferrari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.25, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.26, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The G6.1 agenda has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which have already been presented, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u117	I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u118	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.1, tabled by Senator Ferrari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.2, tabled by Senator Ferrari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.3, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.4, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.5, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 7.6, tabled by Senator Ferrari, until the words "acquisition." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 7.7 to 7.9. are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.10 tabled by Senator Ferrari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.11, tabled by Senator Ferrari, identical to amendment 7.12, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 7.13, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators, up to the words 'disapplication'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 7.0.1. are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 8 of the Decree-Law, which have already been presented, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u119	The Government opposes all the amendments, but proposes to turn the 8.0.1, identical to 8.0.2 and 8.0.3. into the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u120	I would ask the authors whether they wish to accept the call to turn amendment 8.0.1, identical to amendments 8.0.2 and 8.0.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u121	Yes, Mr President, let us turn amendment 8.0.1 into agenda G8.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u122	I insist on voting on amendment 8.0.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u123	I welcome the call for amendment 8.0.3 to be put on the agenda G8.0.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u124	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G8.0.1 and G8.0.3 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.2, tabled by Senator Ferrari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.1, tabled by Senator Ferrari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.2 tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.4 tabled by Senators Misiani and Nannicini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.0.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.5, tabled by Senator Nannicini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 9 of the Decree-Law, which has already been presented, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u125	I am against all the amendments to Article 9. As regards agendas, I welcome as a recommendation the G9.1, the G9.2, the G9.5, the G9.6 and the G9.7 and the G9.8 and the G9.9 and the G9.10 and the G9.11, the G9.12, the G13 and the G.14. I am in favour of the G9.16 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u126	Let us move on to Amendment 9.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.1, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.2, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 9.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.4, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.5, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.3, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.6 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 9.7, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators, up to the words "the following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 9.8. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.9, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.10 tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.11, tabled by Senator Binetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 9.12, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators, up to the words "the following": (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 9.13. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 9.14, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators, up to the words "the following": (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 9.15 to 9.22 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.23, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.24, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9.25, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.25 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.26, tabled by Senator Mirabelli and other senators, essentially identical to amendments 9.27, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators, and 9.28, tabled by Senator Laniece. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.29 tabled by Senator Zaffini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 9.32.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u127	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u129	VITALI (FI-BP). Mr President, I am speaking on Amendment 9.33, which would be precluded by the rejection of the first part of 9.32. Although formulated in an ambiguous way, the current paragraph 6-a lends itself to interpretations and in fact confers a delegation to the Government. Article 15 (2) (a) of Law No 400 of 1988 states that the Government may not, by decree-law confer legislative powers pursuant to Article 76 of the Constitution. This is in accordance with and in execution of the combined provisions of Articles 76 and 77 (1) of the Constitution. The delegation, therefore, can only be conferred by law, never by decree-law, which would expropriate Parliament of its principal function, as referred to in Article 70 of the Constitution. I realize that this measure must not be amended and must be approved, but, taking into account the above, and the adoption as a recommendation, on 2 August, of the agenda 9/924-A/50, I would ask the Government at least to be able to turn Amendment 9,33 into an agenda in order to have a wording consistent with the whole system in this area. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u130	I would ask the representative of the Government to comment on this request.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u131	The government is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u132	Senator Vitali, do you insist on voting? VITALI (FI-BP). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 9.32, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators, up to the words "prohibited" in paragraph 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 9.33 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 9.30, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators, until the words 'comma 1' are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 9,34 and 9,35 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to amendment 9.31, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.31, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 9,34 and 9,35 are precluded by the rejection of the first part of Amendment 9,30. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.36, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.37, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.38, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.39, tabled by Senator Mirabelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.40, tabled by Senator Mirabelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.41, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.42, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.53, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 9.43, tabled by Senator Mirabelli and other senators, up to the words "Gambling Game." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments from 9.44 to 9.52 are therefore not included. Let us move on to Amendment 9,49, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of amendment 9.49, tabled by Senator Mirabelli and other senators, until the words "the year 2020." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 9.51 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 9.50, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.50, tabled by Senator Mirabelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 9.54, tabled by Senator Mirabelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9.56, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 9.56, tabled by Senator Mirabelli and other senators, up to the words "with the following words." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 9,55 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.57, tabled by Senator Vitali, identical to Amendment 9.58, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9.59, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 9,59 tabled by Senator D'Alfonso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.60 tabled by Senator Vitali. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9,61, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,61 tabled by Senator D'Alfonso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9,62, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,62 tabled by Senators Binetti and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 9.64, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators, up to the words "the following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 9.63, 9.65 and 9.66 are therefore excluded. The Government would accept the G9.1 agenda as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u135	BINETTI (FI-BP). Mr President, the intention with which we have also worked in the previous parliamentary term, with regard to everything concerning gambling, has never been solely and exclusively directed towards a strictly economic measure, but always to protect the fragile player. I am referring to what in the new diction is called gambling disorder, which should replace both the words "ludopathy" and "gambling." It seemed to me that the establishment of the famous Green Paper, which was completely excluded and which I hoped could be transformed into a further agenda, was also part of the measures to protect the weakest classes, which are known, on the one hand, adolescents and, on the other, pensioners. Acting on a function of this kind really taking charge of people's needs is more important than this massive and obsessive attention, which I consider desirable, but impossible to achieve, on the absolute stop to advertising because, as in another amendment I supported, there will be extraordinary victories that will encourage people to go to play always and anyway. All preventive measures require very strong attention, which is more at the head of the Ministry of Health than the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Economic Development or the MEF. So the axis that we have worked with, even moving the observatory to the Ministry of Health, tries to put protection at the centre of attention. I believe that all that can and must be done in this case is a matter of strict justice. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u136	As the authors do not insist on the vote, the agendas for G9.1, G9.2, G9.5, G9.6, G9.7, G9.8, G9.9, G9.10, G9.11, G9.12, G9.13 and G9.14 are accepted as a recommendation. Agendas G9.3 and G9.4 and G9.15 have been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the G9.16 agenda will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.0.1, tabled by Senator Pharaoh and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.2 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.3 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.4 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9.0.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.5 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.0.6 tabled by Senator Pharaoh and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.7, tabled by Senator Pharaoh and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9.0.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 9.0.8, tabled by Senator Pharaoh and other senators, until the words "In order to do so." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 9,0.9 to 9,0.19 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 9.0.11, tabled by Senator Pharaoh and other senators, up to the words "overcoming euro". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 9.0.12 and 9.0.13. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.0.15, tabled by Senator Pharaoh and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.0.16, tabled by Senator Pharaoh and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.17, tabled by Senator Pharaoh and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.0.18, tabled by Senator Pharaoh and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9.0.20, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 9.0.20, tabled by Senator Pharaoh and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9.0.21, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 9.0.21, tabled by Senator Binetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments relating to Articles 9-a and 9-b of the Decree-Law, which have already been presented, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u137	Mr President, I am against Amendments 9-a.1 and 9-b.1, while the agenda has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u138	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 9-a.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u139	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u141	COMINANCES (PD). Mr President, in the battle against gambling it is certainly important to be able to involve all the actors present on the territory and all the articulations of the State engaged in different ways and with different tasks. We believe that this battle, which is enriched by a further measure, must absolutely involve OSH and territorial social and health services. That is why, with amendment 9- bis.1, we ask that we be able to insert, within the spaces dedicated to the game, a billboard prepared by the ASL itself, that highlights the risks related to gambling. We also call for attention to be paid to the presence on the territory of care services, both by the public sector and by the private sector, to the support of people suffering from gambling, to their social reintegration and to the support of their families, who often suffer significant psychological damage. Finally, we ask the access of the operators of public and private social assistance services in the spaces dedicated to the game, so that, with their competence and their abilities, they can verify which subjects are really at risk and therefore approach them and help them in a recovery path. Now, apart from these considerations related to this specific amendment, I would like to stress that the Government, with this measure, has highlighted that these interventions related to gambling are first measures, waiting for an overall reorganization of the gaming sector. Some people in this House earlier said that complex realities do not have simple solutions. Well, the risk of these positive measures is that, if we take them individually, we can consider them... (Brussio). Mr President, I would like to ask you whether we can get attention, including from the government. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me, Senator Beginini, I was distracted for a moment. Government, please. Senator Vono, excuse me. COMINANCES (PD). Thank you, Mr President. I said that these measures, taken in their paperwork - as an illustrious colleague would say - may seem positive, but the risk is that they may be inefficient as a whole, because, without an operation involving the possibility of eliminating other machines from the gambling rooms, these advertising measures risk being absolutely ineffective. I would like to remind you that previous governments have managed to bring from 378,000 to 265,000 gaming machines, with a reduction of more than 30%. Certainly these measures have an important effectiveness, because they reduce the space for the game. Therefore, the Government's commitment to working in a more comprehensive way in this area is welcome, but I would like to remind the Minister and Vice-President of the Council that in February, during the election campaign, he spoke several times with statements to underline the need to simplify the rules: there is a need for fewer laws, there is a need to remove some laws. Perhaps, Minister, it would have been helpful not to rush to include these important measures in a decree-law, since you claim to want to intervene in a more organic way throughout the sector. These measures, which have their own positivity (I repeat), but are separated from measures designed to significantly reduce - as has already been done in the recent past - the spaces dedicated to the game, risk being ineffective. I therefore ask you, in future measures on this subject, to consider the full range of interventions: the reduction of space, information, the involvement of territorial social and health care services and all that the third sector, particularly in recent years, has pointed out as useful measures to intervene significantly on this sensitive sector. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u144	FLORIS (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to endorse this amendment and I would like to ask the Government to consider the possibility of turning it into an agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is That's what the presenter has to ask. Senator Begin, Senator Floris would like to sign his amendment and ask the government to consider turning it into an agenda. Do you agree? COMINANCES (PD). I am certainly in favour of signing up, but I would ask that the amendment be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u145	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u147	MANTERO (M5S). Mr President, on the subject, Mr Beginini's amendment concerns aspects of the competence of the regions, because the tasks of local health companies (ASL) and the way in which these issues are addressed at local level are the responsibility of regional health and in many regions that have transposed the so-called Balduzzi decree these things are already done. Of course we hope that they will be extended and brought to national level, as well as the green number proposed by Senator Binetti, certainly an important initiative, which we will continue with a proposal for a law of a parliamentary nature. The one under consideration is however a decree-law, with which we have considered to intervene on a situation of urgency, because by now the spread of gambling on the national territory and the reckless increase of the offer, that have carried on, in perfect continuity, for twenty years the governments of center-right and center-left, have made the second Italian company become the hazard, with one million patients of chance and two million people at risk. I understand my colleagues in the centre-left - or rather, in the Democratic Party: I do not know if it can still be said center-left - many of whom had signed the bill for the total ban on advertising, in the last legislature, without seeing it implemented, if not for that ridiculous partial ban, which has proved completely ineffective. In fact, we saw the banning of advertising, limited to generalist television and at times that did not even go beyond the end of the games: so, if a kid starts seeing the game with the parent, he risked seeing Intralot's advertising in the second half. I understand therefore that colleagues can find it difficult to digest that we, after sixty days, have already done what they have said for years and have never concluded. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] We have faced lobbyists, who have never dared to touch and, indeed, have indulged them for years. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This was done by the center-right and centre-left governments, in perfect continuity, as I said, by the so-called Abruzzo decree, which cleared the videolottery, making the Abruzzos the most dependent on gambling, instead of facing the damage of the earthquake, the Letta Government, which made a further discount on the sanctions for the evasion of concessionaires, until the circumstance that saw the expiration of the tax delegation and the attempt to ban advertising, which was already in the tax delegation and was blown by an amendment, approved here to the Senate and proposed by Senator Nencini; then there are many other examples. You've done a little something, a few fakes, like the partial ban on advertising or the reduction of slot machines. True, you have started reducing slots, but, basically, you have done what the dealers have told you once again, that is to move the offers to videolotteries, which are much more dangerous, and abandon an industry, which has a long supply chain and which makes dealers little, thus abandoning the slots, which they do not make. If in a bar you switch from three to two slots, you simply concentrate the harvest on the two remaining slots: that's not the solution, it's not reducing the slots by 30 percent, but it's starting to put a brake on this industry... [[Comments of Senators Bellanova and Endrizzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u148	I invite you to conclude, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u149	MANTERO (M5S). ...starting to reverse the trend, going towards a constant decline in supply and consequently of the harvest, which will bring the phenomenon back to an acceptable level. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Begin's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u150	Undersecretary Castelli, I would ask you to re-evaluate the agenda of Senator Beginini's Amendment 9-a.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u151	The Government's opinion remains opposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u152	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u153	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u154	FARAONE (PD). Mr President, I do not understand why there is a need to argue on a subject which should see Parliament as a whole in its approval. Among other things, this is what emerged from the speeches, except the polemic unnecessarily made by Minister Di Maio when he said that the center-left was for gambling lobbyists. With the amendments tabled and the acts we did when we were in the government we had nothing to prove, but we went in a totally opposite direction and I am surprised that the majority did not vote for these proposals. The only contradiction I know is the very measure that has been presented to us today. You have to explain to us - and I am asking the majority Members who have spoken on this - why you say that you are opposed to this type of intervention and that you are in favour of abolishing gambling advertising, while no one has yet told us why in the measure you continue to maintain the same revenue that would have been provided if this advertising had not been denied. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Why is the Minister not answering this question? The truth is that our Government, with the updating of the essential levels of assistance (LEA), with the fiscal connection, with the proposals contained in the 2017 agreement with the Regions and with the amendments tabled, had gone in this direction. You have rejected all the amendments, so stop being hypocrites. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u155	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9- bis.1, tabled by Senator Beginini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9-b.1, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The G9-b.1 agenda is withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments relating to Articles 9 -quater and 9-d of the Decree-Law, which have already been presented, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u156	Mr President, the Government's opinion is against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u157	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9-c.1 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9-c.2. tabled by Senator Mirabelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9-c.3 tabled by Senator D'Alfonso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9-c.4. tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9-c.5, tabled by Senator Beginini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 9-c.6 and 9-c.7 are unacceptable. Agenda G 9-c.1 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to amendment 9-d.1 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9-d.1, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9-d.2 tabled by Senator D'Alfonso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 9-d.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9-d.3 tabled by Senator Beginini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Agenda G9-d.1 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to amendment 9-d.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 9-d.0.1, tabled by Senator Mirabelli and other senators, until the words: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 9-d.0.2 to 9-d.0.12. are therefore excluded. Let us turn to amendment 9-d.0.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9-d.0.3, tabled by Senator Mirabelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9-d.0.5, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9-d.0.6, tabled by Senator Mirabelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9-d.0.8, tabled by Senator Mirabelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9-d.0.13, tabled by Senator Mirabelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9-d.0.16, tabled by Senator Mirabelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 9-d.0.14, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9-d.0.14, tabled by Senator Beginini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On amendment 9-d.0.18, the 5th Commission gave a conditional opinion on the rewording. As the authors are opposed to amending the amendment in the sense indicated by the 5th Commission, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9-d.0.18, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 9-d.0.19, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9-d.0.19, tabled by Senator Mirabelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 10 of the Decree-Law, which has already been presented, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u158	I am opposed to all the amendments and the agenda presented to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u159	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.1 tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and FdI groups at the address of President Calderoli, who leaves the Presidency.]] 12:02 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u160	After that, I'd ask for a round of applause too, though. [[Applause at the address of President Alberti Casellati.]] Thank you. Amendment 10.2 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.3 tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 10.4 which is identical to Amendment 10.5 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10.4 tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators, identical to Amendment 10.5 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.6, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.7, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.8, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 10.9 is unacceptable. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.11 tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.12 tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 10.13, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators, up to the words "with the following words." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 10.14 and 10.15 are therefore not included. Agendas G10.1 and G10.2 have been withdrawn. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G10.3 tabled by Senators D'Alfonso and Patriarch. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 10.0.1 to 10.0.30 cannot be proposed. Let us move on to Amendment 10.0.31, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 10.0.31, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 10.0.32 is unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 11 of the Decree-Law, which have already been presented, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u161	Mr President, I would like to turn Amendment 11.8 into an agenda, identical to Amendments 11.6 and 11.7. I am against the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u162	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.1 tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.2, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 11.3, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators, up to the words "with the following words." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 11.4. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.5, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The representative of the Government issued an invitation to turn amendment 11.6 identical to amendments 11.7 and 11.8 into an agenda. I call on the authors to make their views known on this proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u163	Mr President, I welcome the Government's request.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u164	Mr President, I too welcome the Government's request.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u165	Mr President, we too welcome the Government's request.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u166	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G11.6, G11.7 and G11.8 will not be put to the vote. Let us move on to amendment 11.9 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 11.9 tabled by Senator Steger and other senators, up to the words "as referred to in paragraph 6" above. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 11.10 and 11.11. are therefore excluded. Amendment 11.0.1 is not possible. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 11-a of the Decree-Law, which have already been presented, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u167	Mr President, I would like to turn Amendment 11-a.1 into an agenda. I am against the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u168	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11-a.1, tabled by Senator Grimani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 11- bis.2, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators, up to the words "in paragraph 913". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 11-a are therefore excluded.3. Let us move on to amendment 11-a.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 11-a.4 tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11-a.5, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 11-a.6 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 11- bis.6 tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11- bis.7 tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 11-a.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11- bis.8, tabled by Senator Sciascia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 11-a.9 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 11- bis.9 tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 11-a.1 on which the Government has called for it to be transformed into an agenda. Do you accept this request, Senator Toffanin?
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u169	Yes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u170	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G11- bis.0.1 will not be put to the vote. Amendment 11-a.0.2 is unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 12 of the Decree-Law, which has already been presented, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u171	Mr President, with regard to Amendments Nos 12,9, 12, 10, identical to Amendments Nos 12, 11 and 12, 2 and 12, 0.1, we call for them to be turned into agendas, on which we express our support. We are against the remaining amendments. With regard to agenda G12.1, the Government is in favour of its adoption as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u172	Let us move on to Amendment 12.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 12.1, tabled by Senator Beginini, until the words 'Suppress Article '. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 12.2 and 12.3. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.4 tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 12.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.5, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 12.6 which is identical to Amendment 12.7 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12.6 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators, identical to Amendment 12.7 tabled by Senator De Poli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.8, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 12.9, on which the Government has made an invitation to turn it into an agenda. I would ask those present whether they accept this request.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u173	Yes, ma'am, we welcome you.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u174	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G12.9 will not be put to the vote. We move on to Amendment 12.10 which is identical to Amendments 12.11 and 12.12, on which the Government has called for a change of agenda. I would ask those present whether they accept this request.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u175	We accept the government's invitation.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u176	Yes, ma'am, we welcome you.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u177	We agree to turn Amendment 12.12 into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u178	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G12.10 will not be put to the vote. Senator Causin, the government is in favour of accepting the agenda as a recommendation. Are you insisting on the vote? CAUSIN (FI-BP). No, I don't insist. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the authors do not insist on the vote, the agenda for the G12.1 is accepted as a recommendation. Senator Ciriani, do you accept the Government's proposal to withdraw amendment 12.0.1 and turn it into an agenda? CIRIANI (FdI). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G12.0.1 will not be put to the vote. Amendments 12.0.2 and 12.0.3 cannot be proposed. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 12-a of the Decree-Law, which have already been presented, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u179	Mr President, I am against all the amendments that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u180	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12-a.1, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 12-a.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 12- bis.2, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators, until the words "in the previous year" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 12-a are therefore excluded.3. Amendments 12-a.0.1 to 12-a.0.6 cannot be proposed. Let us move on to amendment 12-a.0.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 12- bis.0.7, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 12-a.0.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 12- bis.0.8, tabled by Senator Bellanova and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12- bis.0.9 tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12-a.0.10, tabled by Senator Ferrazzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 13 of the Decree-Law, which have already been presented, and on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u181	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u182	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.1 tabled by Senator Inginini, identical to Amendments 13.2 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other Senators, and 13.3 tabled by Senator Sbrollini and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 13.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13.4 tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 13.5 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.5 tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 13.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13.6 tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 13.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.7, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 13.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 13.8, tabled by Senator Beginini, until the words "second period." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 13.9 to 13.11. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 13.12, tabled by Senator D'Alfonso and other senators, up to the words: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 13.13 to 13.15 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.16, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.17, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 13.18, tabled by Senator Beginini until the words "it is increased by...." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 13.19 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 13.20, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 13.20, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators, up to the words "with the following words." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 13.21 are therefore excluded. Let us turn to Amendment 13,22, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13.22, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 13.0.1 to 13.0.3 cannot be proposed. Amendment 14.0.1 to Article 14 is unacceptable. Amendments Tit.1 and Tit.2 are precluded. Ladies and gentlemen, after agreement between the groups, explanations of vote will take place from 2 p.m. After the final vote, around 15.15, the government will inform on the tragic incidents in Bologna and Foggia.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u183	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u185	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I would just like to ask whether the Commission's meetings are to be disconcerted in conjunction with the resumption of the House's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u186	Senator Casini, the Presidency has adhered to the agreements between the Groups. In any event, since there is no condition for them to be carried out, I shall be voting against the meetings of the Commissions scheduled to take place at 2 p.m. in conjunction with the reopening of the House's proceedings. I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 12.23 p.m. and resumed at 2.04 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u187	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u189	Mr Cario (Misto-MAIE). Mr President, Minister, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, the MAIE, the associative movement of Italians in the world in this Parliament, appreciates and values the Government's will to give a signal that the country is really moving towards an era of structural reforms. We in the MAIE believe it is necessary and welcome to simplify tax obligations for professionals and businesses. In particular, the initiative to combat the precarious working of our young people is crucial. We also share the rule of the decree-law aimed at not allowing companies to receive state aid and can relocate by omitting social and tax compromises. Finally, we think it is right to abolish commercials for gambling: ludopathy destroys families and causes serious individual and social damage. Mr President, for these reasons I am voting in favour of the conversion into law of the Decree-Law on Dignity. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u190	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u191	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u192	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I would like to say that I agree with the objectives of the Dignity Decree which Mr Di Maio summarized in four points: the fight against precariousness, the fight against ludopathy, the fight against relocations and the sburocratization. What doesn't convince me is your method. There was no urgency to make a decree-law, calling in August and weekends, without leaving room for oppositions to make improvements. I am not convinced that, instead of trying to improve so many things that your predecessors have done - such as the jobs act, which created jobs - you have to change everything, losing how good the previous government has done. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I fear that removing flexibility in the labour market will destroy jobs, without creating stable jobs. The risk of feeding only turnover and court disputes is very concrete. Moreover, we are not convinced by the new legislation on vouchers, which is too strict for the tourism sector and the demands of volunteering, trade and local authorities have not been taken into account. Even here the haste did not allow to write an adequate norm. With a bill, but also with a different approach in the process of the provision, we believe that a law could have been written up to the initial expectations. Unfortunately, that was not the case. For all these reasons, our Group will vote against. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV and PD).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u193	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u195	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we will not support this measure and vote against it, but not for a preliminary reason. When Minister Di Maio, who is not present in the Chamber at the moment - probably in a technical pause - began to outline the contours of the decree-law, before even knowing its contents we were intrigued. Our curiosity was prompted by the launch of the decree-law, because in that launch there was a very strong ambition, which we share. On the contrary, I say more: it should be an ambition shared by all political forces in a cross-cutting way. The ambition was to imagine an instrument that was the first step, but an important step, towards the struggle without neighborhood to precariousness. And we shared that goal when we heard it from Minister Di Maio, and we continue to share it. For the truth, perhaps we should start quoting things with different names: more than precarious, in this country we should start talking about real exploitation, in many cases, in many circumstances, in many contexts. Just as those workers who lost their lives yesterday in the accident that was also mentioned in this House were exploited: the massacre of the exploited was called. In this country we should start using that term. We share that goal. Mr President - I say to you and through you to the members of the majority and to the representatives of the Government - there is, however, a very strong, even uncompromising distance between the ambition of that title, the dignity, the ambition of that objective and the content of that decree-law, the real effects that it will have. Let us be clear: I say this by thinking that some of the measures contained in the measure go exactly in the direction that we have hoped for in recent years, namely a signal of discontinuity with those policies that we did not share - such as, for example, in the last parliamentary term - when incredibly a party that should have presided over the field of progressives not only did not do so, but in that field it produced lacerations emanating measures such as the jobs act which - from my point of view - represented the first real, great tearing between that political proposal and an entire people. Parts of that people then turned their attention - as is known and as we know - to other political forces from March 4. We therefore believe that it was a mistake to make those choices and that some of the measures contained in this measure go exactly in the right direction. I am thinking - for example - of the grip that this Government has imagined on fixed time. And it's a just grip that sees the problem. Of course, if we had had a normal dialectic between majority and opposition and had been able to exercise our role as parliamentarians in full autonomy, that is, if we had not met that wall that the majority put in front of a debate that should have been freer, perhaps some advice, some adjustments and some substantial changes could also be made to measures that have a positive objective. On the fixed time - for example - we said, on the tip of our feet, that we should pay attention because, as a result of the combination of the reduction in time, months and time; because the cause is put after twelve months and not immediately and the increase in the contribution, we can trigger a sort of mechanism which, due to the heterogeneous effect of the ends, goes exactly in the opposite direction to the government's aim, i.e. instead of limiting the use and abuse of the fixed time, favours it to the detriment instead of the form of indeterminate time, which should be the privileged one. For example, on compensation for illegal dismissals, we have said that we should also pay attention to dismissals arising from conciliation rather than from defects in form. Our trivial prediction is that, having failed to take advantage of this aspect, in the coming months and years there will be a rather dramatic increase in dismissals due to defects of form, which are clearly behind other types of discrimination. These were measures that no one wanted to take into consideration, because we had a debate - as I have already had the opportunity to support yesterday in a speech - in the Commission in our splendid loneliness of opposition and in the absolute aphony of a majority that has passed since being in the last very bold legislature and, even at times, revolutionary to be now characterized by institutional aplomb worthy of the best tearooms in England. We expect a little more intensive intercourse with the majority. Of course, I do not have the time that the Minister took yesterday to explain the complexity of the measure and, therefore, I cannot speak on everything. I will therefore concentrate on the aspects that are particularly striking to us. I believe that there are two exemplary aspects to the issues that perhaps we should have discussed and we should discuss in the coming months. First of all, we are among those who have opposed a very sloppy and sloppy choice. I am referring to the time when the last government of the last legislature cancelled the vouchers with a stroke of pen because it was afraid of being hit by a popular referendum promoted by the largest trade union organization in this country. We opposed it because we had to make a more lucid and calm reasoning. For example, it was necessary to preserve the use of vouchers for some limited areas of domestic work, but also to definitively eradicate that instrument from all other sectors because from agriculture, catering, services and trade its use was simply a mechanism for multiplying precariousness and exploitation. And instead, this Government has thought well to put its hand again on this instrument, which will return dramatically to being what it has been in the past: a multiplier of abuse and exploitation. Then there is an incomprehensible attitude on this point, which is not so much and only determined by the distance between the commitments that some members of this majority have taken in the past and what they have not done in this circumstance. I am referring in particular to the commitment to return to talk in our country about the possibility of re-introduced Article 18 on illegitimate dismissals. It is an incomprehensible choice, because I think it would have been an act almost had to come back to talk together, also here, across the political forces, about the possibility that the country will return to being a little more civil than it leaves today, in relation to the need to introduce a minimum instrument of protection, so that a worker, if he is dismissed without just cause (i.e. illegitimately), can be in a position to decide himself between the monetization of his dismissal or opt for his cause to be decided by a judge, who can also reintegrate him into the workplace. This has represented a minimum margin for the legal civilization of our country, and I say for its civilization. He did not imagine talking again about this subject, which is not a fetish of the past, because Article 18 concerned millions of workers and workers. Having eliminated it meant not only eliminating a right that was exactly the responsibility of those workers, but also making the workers who did not benefit from it more fragile. The rights in the world of work are a thread that binds workers and workers and, if you take them away from some, others become weaker too. I think we should start talking about this again. I say this - and I am really closing, Mr President - not because I think that talking about this is enough to be able to start to imagine a future for our country and the way in which it recovers. On the other hand, I think that we must close the season in which we think and think, on the right and on the left, that, in order to restart the country, we must tamper with the rules of the labour market. No, we are talking again about industrial policies, public investment, quality employment, reducing working time on equal pay. We are talking about all this and, if we do it together, I believe that we will restore dignity to the workers, but we will also restore dignity to politics. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u196	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u198	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, I would like to say that we are pleased to see you in your place chairing this House. [[Applause from the FdI, M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Dear colleagues and lords of the Government, my speech today will not be soft on the decree-law under consideration, but will want to be like the DNA of the Political Group Brothers of Italy, the DNA of an opposition force that wants first of all to be a force of construction and proposition. So, if we say "no" - as we will say - to this decree-law, we will say it motivating it and above all explaining why. At the moment of sadness that will reach the entrepreneurs as soon as the decree-law dignity is approved in these hours, we will at the same time attract concrete and cost-free political proposals, which we presented to the press an hour ago with our President Giorgia Meloni in the parliamentary classrooms. So, dear Minister Di Maio - whom I am pleased to see here in the Chamber - we are talking about a decree-law dignity. However, I asked myself a question and asked myself, Mr President, especially on the evenings and almost nights I spent with your lovely colleagues in the Finance and Labour Committees. I wondered why you called a decree-law dignity which, unfortunately - I say this as a citizen before as a politician - I believe will be the decree of unemployment and undeclared work. I have really tried, without prejudice, to get into your thinking, in reading your norms and in the philosophy that inspired them and, beyond the good intentions that I can recognize you, I have not really been able to glimpse a reason to give a positive hint to those fundamental norms on work, which are an integral part of the decree-law to our examination. It is a decree-law that, however, perhaps - to this I arrived a little later - could have been built by you in a propedeutic way to another philosophy, which is not to create new jobs and to create breath for businesses and our economy, but rather to get to the happy decrease. If that's the goal, then maybe it makes sense to talk about decree-law dignity. If the goal is the happy decline, then maybe one reason I find it. If the objective is to justify the income of citizenship and therefore welfare, then perhaps I find a reason in the decree-law dignity. Otherwise, it is difficult to find dignity in rules that deal with the market and against the needs of businesses, but also and especially of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of our territory and from which, in these hours - as you know very well, ladies and gentlemen - a cry of sorrow is coming, which reaches every senator and every Member. It is not so much the Confindustria, which often goes hand in hand with the CGIL, as sometimes happens in these classrooms, but it is the associations of small entrepreneurs who are responding with anger to this restrictive and sanctioning legislation, to these laces and laces, which are placed on the labour market. We can also see it analytically, because the first three articles, which constitute the basic approach of the decree-law with regard to work, say first of all - I quote "The Sun 24 Hours" yesterday - that in five months we will have four different regimes. Each of us understands how an entrepreneur, who in five months finds himself having four different regimes, already in itself, regardless of the merit, is put in trouble. Therefore, regardless of the substance, which we have all highlighted in our amendments, the technical application procedure will also create problems for businesses. So this is not dignity, but it is a desire to create obstacles for those who do business. Speaking of vouchers, you have re-opened minimally and blandly to those vouchers that the Democratic Party, under dictation of the CGIL, had eliminated, but you have done so in a way more than anything facadeded and not in substance. I would like to refer to the hotel tourism companies: in this case, up to eight employees have been extended to those who can benefit from the vouchers. However, I would like to ask you how many hotels you know, unless you resort to undeclared work, which has up to eight employees, because already nine people can no longer resort to vouchers in the peaks of work and in the moments of seasonality. We are not talking about those companies that work alongside the hotel companies, such as those of catering and public administration: all these companies are excluded from vouchers, and CGIL is very happy about it, and therefore will resort, as they have always done, to undeclared work. That's why I wonder where dignity is. Moving on to the next articles, let's talk about the school. Here you have a justification: as my colleague said well This morning the Stone had already thought about the so-called good school to create the precariousness in the work of teachers and teachers of our children. The decree-law under consideration, instead of responding concretely with a solution, in fact institutionalizes the precarious, not giving an answer to the teachers of public and equal schools, to all the initials of the category, which have flooded you, like us, with another cry of pain, similar to that of the entrepreneurs, whom I mentioned earlier. So let's move on to the topic of relocation. Here too, we agree, indeed very much, with the intention of hindering relocation, which, I would point out, is quite different from internationalisation. However, we do not hinder relocation by simply increasing sanctions; we can certainly do that too, but relocation is hindered above all by creating the conditions for the entrepreneur to remain producing in our country, in Italy, to be an advantage in producing with our products, with our goods, with our workers. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] The Fratelli d'Italia Group is proud to have tabled amendments that speak of the Italian brand. We must respond to the relocation by rewarding those entrepreneurs who produce in Italy, who use raw materials and semi-finished products mostly Italian and who, above all, make use of Italian labour. This is the way to respond to relocation; this means to be proactive and constructive. Turning to subsequent articles, Article 8, which I quote briefly, contains other restrictions. It is, therefore, a decree-law made of restrictions, laces, constraints, laces and restrictions on research and development. I do not think it takes words and time to say how inappropriate it was to restrict the tax credit on research and development. Instead, I give a note of merit and trust to this Government (because, as I said, our opposition wants to be constructive) regarding Article 9: in the matter of games and ludopathy you were good, you broke a wall of omerta, I give you notice. I hope, however, that you will be consistent with what you have said and written and that you will know from now on, from now on, from now on to autumn, to give a real impetus to a season of clarification on this subject, on these often occult interests that lurk towards anyone who tries to discover the system of ludopathy and games. We have in our Group Senator Zaffini who in Umbria has been a skilled extensor of the law against ludopathy, so we are available. We presented a bill in the Senate that we invite you to schedule and discuss with us. Turning then to the final part on the fiscal level, also in this case as a doctor accountant as soon as the decree-law was issued I had had some satisfaction, because finally the topics of the split payment, of the income meter and of the spent meter were addressed; but then reading the contents I realized that on the income meter nothing was done but a call to the Istat, without however modifying anything and that as far as the spentometer was concerned it was only a change of deadlines. As for the split payment, starting with the conclusion, you gave it to us professionals and not to that company that, instead, in a liquidity crisis, really needed its abolition. I am referring above all to those small businesses in chronic liquidity crisis, precisely because of the VAT credit they have because of the split payment. In conclusion, let's say no to a decree-law that will favour black work for us, perhaps will please some trade unionist and someone who still thinks from the vetero-communist perspective of the seventies; let's say no to a decree-law that, by canceling the work, will certainly be propedeutic to the income of citizenship; to a decree-law that basically is inspired by the motto: less enterprise and more welfare. However, since we always believe in the good faith of all, we hope to see you in the coming months with variations in the text under discussion and proposals that are closer to business, work and all citizens. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u199	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u201	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, first of all allow me to make an important report to the Presidency, as well as to the Government, on the humiliation that the Senate has suffered in these hours. The Senate has a new Rules of Procedure which allow the rapid progress of the measures in this House, but on the assumption that these measures can be discussed, analysed and that there can be a serious and productive confrontation within the Commission. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You prevented it, you prevented the discussion! Why, Minister (why would the order surely come to you)? Not to be late tonight? To anticipate colleagues' holidays a few hours or why? Probably for not wanting to listen to the proposals of all oppositions. This was - let me say this, Minister - a serious mistake on your part and on the part of the whole majority. I believe that the attitude we have shown in this House deserves much more than that. You've done worse than trusting, because you've put gags on opposition. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Allow me, Mr Vice-President of the Council, to take away a curiosity: I would like to know what is the logical link between a messy text, full of inconsistent rules such as the decree-law that we are voting on, with the term 'dignity'. I challenge anyone to find something worthy within this complicated and far-fetched text: there is nothing worthy. You were optimistic, for example, in the tables that you yourself presented when you talked about 80,000 jobs by default that the country would lose. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Maybe it's 100,000, some colleagues from the other opposition forces say it's 130,000. This is something never seen in the history of the Republic: you even make a decree-law, you ask the urgency to make our country lose jobs and you talk about dignity? [[Applause from the PD Group]] We've been wondering how that's possible. Among other things they explained it very well - I believe - the entrepreneurial associations of all the productive North, a land that should be particularly interested in an important force of the majority, the League. Do we also stand up against them, against the representatives of this association of companies and entrepreneurs, a beautiful social mud machine like the one you organized against Professor Burioni on vaccines? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Is this the way you make politics? I think entrepreneurs deserve to be heard. After the adoption of this measure, two things will happen: the first is that the turnover will increase, so as not to risk the litigation with the restoration that you wanted of the causal ones; the second is that, as we have said, unemployment will increase. The words are very important, Minister, and so we must respect them. You cannot call it a decree of dignity, because that is precisely the decree of unemployment, so it should be called. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Our vision, Minister, was different, perhaps more complex and even more difficult to understand, to transmit and to communicate to our fellow citizens. He spoke of school-work, of a training course that would prepare in an appropriate way also for entry into the world of work; he spoke of incentives for investment for businesses, in particular for technological investments and based on innovation, he spoke of facilitations for permanent work; he spoke of increasing guarantees for work and for workers. Instead, you have put in place an infernal mechanism that risks tying hands to businesses, with the obvious consequence of increasing unemployment and the use of undeclared work: this you have done. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You had to focus on the central issue of the country's competitiveness, with serious and shared industrial policies. You see, Minister, you could come to the House and propose to the country a reduction in the tax wedge, you could propose the minimum wage, you could propose a relief for workers who were fired after the fixed time, the incentives for stabilisation for those who could go from indefinite to fixed time. 14.35 (Followed by Mr Marcucci). These are the urgent measures that we expected, that awaited the country; not to increase taxes on businesses, to increase bureaucracy, to increase the causality, to increase the litigation, to increase the precariousness and to increase, I repeat, the undeclared work. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We needed this, not an unnecessary and totally irrelevant discussion on the Italian labour market. On the other hand, this measure aims to contrast work and enterprise by doing damage to the worker and damage to companies. [[Applause from the PD Group]] With what courage is there talk of dignity, I repeat, for a measure that happens to take away, why does it reduce jobs? But do you, Minister, allow me, do you know the job? Do you know the company, the companies? Have you experienced the satisfaction of being hired for the first time, the satisfaction of the first paycheck, the permanent confirmation? Do you know what we're talking about, Minister? [[Applause from the PD Group]] PUGLIA (M5S). You destroyed a country! [[Comments from the PD Group. Recalls of the President]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u202	Please let Senator Marcucci finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u203	[[Comments from Senator Bellanova.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). We, Minister, are talking about people in the flesh. [[Comments by Senator Croatti. Protests from the PD Group. Recalls of the President]] , that for your dignity they will find themselves in the middle of the street. This is how you fight precariousness, Minister: increasing redundancies. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Let's face it. This government had only one objective, especially for you of the Movimento 5 Stars: this only objective was a topic to go on social media and news, to compete in terms of visibility with your colleague vice-premier, Minister Salvini, who continues to humiliate you daily. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We want to talk quickly about the other effects that this decree-law will produce. You promised to solve the problem of teachers and teachers: you fire them, Minister. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You promised to hire young people and exclude them, the young graduates in primary education, from your extraordinary competition. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We have proposed a solution to ensure the continuity of teaching, the true one, and you have made it a piece of paper. You tell us you want to strengthen the nests and the childhood school and instead you don't want to increase the staff. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And then, on gambling, Mr Minister and Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in words you reverse to fight it, but then you reveal yourself for what you are, with your true intentions, and increase your financial revenue forecasts, increase your taxes on gambling: you want to finance yourself with gambling, that is the truth. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I repeat, unfortunately, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and Ministers, we are getting used to this kind of policy, to this way of doing politics. You have been trying to block the RAI for weeks for an extra armchair, which gives rise to the plurality of Parliament's information and rights. You have come with your ministers to this House, in particular with Minister Salvini and Minister Bonafede, who is also present today, to offend Parliament. The wish of your leader Casaleggio, who wants to close it, may well be worth it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You are blocking an impressive investment plan, made to modernise the country (certainly, the TAP, the TAV, but also many other infrastructure works), that could have changed Italy, could have modernised it. You have closed the mission for the redevelopment of school building, which brought our schools into line. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Finally, just yesterday you passed a decree-law - the thousandprorogues decree - only, I repeat only, to postpone and perhaps abolish the vaccination obligation. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Siano]] You do not even care about the lives of the youngest and the health of our fellow citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Now this decree-law, the unemployment decree: a decree against work...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u204	Conclude, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u205	Mr Marcucci (PD). ...a decree against companies, a decree against the future of our country, against Italy. We in the Democratic Party will vote against this unemployment decree. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u206	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u207	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u208	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to the Leader who has given me the opportunity to make political intervention after three days of institutional work. I would point out that it has been an honour and never a burden for me to chair Joint Commissions 6a and 11a. That the opposition's behaviour has been obstructive has been admitted, with frankness and loyalty, by colleagues themselves, as is faithfully shown by the summary reports of the session and as was widely their right to do. But it was a civil obstructionism, respectful of the Rules of Procedure and - let me say this - in some cases even witty in ways, which I particularly appreciated, especially in my colleague Mauro Laus, to whom I wish him a happy birthday. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In this context I tried to make this obstruction constructive, keeping calm and recognizing the reasons of the opponent, something a little 'unexpected in that dangerous skinhead of which the press tells you today. The urgency of the measure was there and there were also the numbers to support it, as the votes have shown. I have stated in the Commission - and I repeat this here - that I understand, and in part also to share, the frustration of those who sincerely wanted to contribute to improving a written text by men and therefore by definition perfectible. I only say here and without controversy that this legitimate aspiration seems to me, however, logically incompatible with the fact that I have tabled over 700 amendments after voting on a certain calendar of the House and after agreeing on a time of deposit amendments which would have allowed a reasonable skirmish. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from the PD Group]] Mr Marcucci (PD). Why? BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). But above all this heartfelt praise of the amending function of bicameralism, which I share and do mine, seems politically out of place by those who fought a battle to suppress this branch of Parliament. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] [[Comments from the PD Group]] I don't want to be controversial. I just want to stress the pedagogical value of defeats in democracy. Moreover, for me too, having brought the text to the House without a rapporteur is not exactly a victory, after so many mediation and listening efforts, but it is okay. Perhaps something is learned from the defeats: 611 days have passed since December 4, 2016 and PD enhances bicameralism. I trust that around 5 November 2019, 611 days after the defeat of 4 March, the PD can draw the right consequences and understand that it has not lost because Italians are racist because of Salvini and assume, even in the Assembly and in the country, those constructive and proactive tones that I have seen so far and I recognize him with great gratitude only in the Commission. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] I want to say very clearly that those who paint Italy in 2018 as if it were the Alabama of the fifties do not facilitate our work, does not render a favor to the country and not even to itself. In fact, then it fails. So, without prejudice to the respect for all workers, including journalists, and their right to a wage that guarantees them a free and dignified existence, I want to say to the procession of the hypocritical prefectures of pluralism, that there is pluralism when information conveys a plurality of different opinions, as I tried to do in my own little and as the illustrious Presidency of this House does, not when a plurality of means is deployed to convey a single opinion. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] That opinion that we, with a certain overestimation pompously call thought: the unique thought. And what is this unique thought? It is the religion of what Vice Prime Minister Di Maio called yesterday the god market. On these issues I would like and I would like, in a climate of reverence, to confront my colleagues in the PD and the opposition in general, because the religion of the market calls for acts of faith, but proposes inconsistent dogmas. In the discussion of this decree-law our oppositions have accused us several times of a punitive attitude towards companies, but I have heard these same oppositions praise many times the draft of a single currency, because by raising the bar of exchange it would encourage companies to be more competitive. And is this not a punitive attitude, a kind of economic Darwinism for which we save those who can and the other entrepreneurs, especially if they are small, must disappear because they are inept to live? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups and Senator De Bertoldi]] So here we have to agree: if the rigidity of the exchange rate has this pedagogical function, why should it not also have protection and therefore a reasonable rigidity of the wage? In a market economy, the price indicates the value of resources: capital and labour. Disviling human labour with indecent wages necessarily brings with it a drop in productivity, on two sides: that of the worker, because, as Stiglitz taught us, a decent wage encourages the worker; that of the enterprise, because too low a cost does not encourage a more efficient use of resources. Many scholars have deepened this issue. In this regard, I would like to mention, in particular, my friend Pasquale Tridico. Confindustria - they tell us - is not happy. In the Commission, my colleague, Mr Floris, reported to us the authoritative and credible alarm of this association about the consequences of this measure. It is the association - let's not forget - that had predicted a recession in 2017 if the Senate had not been reformed. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and FdI Groups]] So let's say that Mr Floris shows great generosity (I do not see him in the Chamber and greet him, it was a pleasant knowledge). I say this to understand the authoritativeness of the predictions. To help us process the mourning of this august disapproval, let me mention some names: Fiat, Sky, Luxottica, Marcegaglia, Honda Italia. What are they? They are some of the big companies that have recently abandoned Confindustria, an association that now represents only the world of the great enterprise (and a certain great enterprise) and within which the great public participants have a lot of weight, which are certainly vital and strategic enterprises in a system perspective, but they are still very far from the small and medium-sized enterprise that constitutes the core of our entrepreneurial system. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] The entrepreneurs we know are asking us to promote the outgoing flexibility of workers, but to increase domestic demand, to de-bureaucraticise public administration and to simplify tax obligations. And it was well done yesterday by Vice Prime Minister Di Maio to remember that workers' protections are a tool to revive demand, because they strengthen confidence in the future and, therefore, stimulate the consumption of families and, downstream, the investments of companies. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Of course, we are here to listen to all the voices, but, ladies and gentlemen, let me draw your attention to a little detail, strange on merit, but not by method. The same associations and companies that in the second half of June, with a certain contempt for the interlocation already started with the majority forces, bought pages of newspapers to urge this Government not to touch the law 8 April 2016, n. 49 (with urgent measures concerning the reform of cooperative banks), after the approval of the decree thousandprorogates have been wasted in compliments for the action of the Government. In short, the Conte Government has succeeded in an impossible task: to improve a reform, according to those who thought it already perfect. So, we wait for what Confindustria will say a few minutes after the definitive conversion of the decree-law. Maybe he'll change his mind. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is another point on which I would like to draw your attention. Our oppositions in the Commission, in this House and wherever they reproach us for propaganda. Today, Senator Nannicini, whom I greet and who I have learned to know and appreciate in the work of the Commission, with great lucidity admitted that propaganda, like obstructionism, is a physiological fact of the political process and that it has always been done. So, why would you point it out? I think there's a malicious intent on us. I propose a moratorium, I don't know if it can be done by decree...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u209	. (To the address of Senator Pharaoh.) Senator, please. I invite the quaestor senators to remove the cartel. BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). In the Commission, Senator Pharaoh had a mirrored behavior. It is up to our voters to judge whether the policies proposed by the government are mere propaganda. The voters are able to do so. They have done so in the past and that is why, on 4 March, the majority changed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u210	[[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] So, don't worry, let the voters assess whether it's propaganda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u211	. (To the address of Senator Pharaoh.) Senator, we're not kidding here, so be respectful. FARAONE (PD). But for what? BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I shall begin to finish in advance. I personally do not know whether this measure is a big or a small step. I know it's definitely a step in the right direction. That is why I am going to vote in favour with the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u212	[[Applause from the groups L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S and Senator La Pietra. Congratulations. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u213	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u214	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u215	PICHETTO FRATIN (FI-BP). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Ministers of the Government... [[The microphone works intermittently.]] Mr President, I have some technical difficulties with the microphone. It is the consequence of standing in opposition. I thought it was for the government, since I see a strong representation of a half of the government. I apologize to Minister Stefani and Minister Centinario, but immediately half of the 5 Star Movimento Government is present. So - alas - in opposition the microphone works like this. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Mr President, in keeping with the considerations on the decree-law and the premises that explain the initiative of this measure (which, in the opinion of Forza Italia, are completely wrong)...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u216	. (To Senator Pharaoh's address) But will you stop?
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u217	[[Comments from the FI-BP Group.]] Senator Pichetto Fratin, I didn't mean you. Excuse me. The call wasn't addressed to her. PICHETTO FRATIN (FI-BP). Madam President, I have learned to have the utmost respect for the institutions. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u218	I didn't mean to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u219	PICHETTO FRATIN (FI-BP). I firmly believe that Parliament's role, precisely because it is called Parliament, is also that of debate and expression of different opinions. So, the moment the president tells me, he wants to stop, I'll stop. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Pichetto Fratin. I repeat that the call was not addressed to you. PICHETTO FRATIN (FI-BP). Thank you, Mr President. As I was saying, there is no need to limit contractual use compared to other forms, as the precariousness in this country is not caused - and was not caused - by the use of some contractual forms compared to others, but by the continuation of an economic crisis that has been dragging for ten years now. So, the same premises are denied by numbers. Figures that do not photograph, and did not photograph, any emergency on the work in term and, therefore, no impellence (motivation of decree-law) to run behind a text that has remained substantially unchanged with respect to the text proposed by the Government, except some modifications (such as the voucher) to the Chamber, at least on its system that is strongly punitive and, in our opinion, illiberal. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Someone said that a historical conflict between capital and labour was reopened. Part of the previous speech refers to this. I'll leave it to those who want to deepen this part. We, as a responsible political force, have listened to the social partners, with very negative judgments, from all the social partners, including those social partners that do not represent the big business or just the big business. A complex discipline, involving the interests of workers and businesses, was responded to with improvised rules that did not need any urgency. The numbers presented to us by the initial technical report, which envisaged the loss of eight thousand employment contracts, are certainly estimated by default. And despite this, and perhaps this is the first time we have seen this, the report has been made by an entity directly dependent on the Minister proposing the decree-law. We're sure of one thing. Beyond the estimates, the mere disincentive of fixed-term work, through the penalty mechanisms that we have read, will not produce new jobs indefinitely. Many people have also argued in this House that, on the contrary, work should be encouraged indefinitely. The House, rightly, extended the incentives until the age of thirty-five. But we have to think: what about those over the age of thirty-five, since we have the new crisis in our 50s? Businesses, however, are waiting for sustained action on the tax wedge, which should be the priority and the mechanism of which should be universal and not sectoral. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Minister Di Maio announced in the Senate Chamber that more resources will be allocated to promote permanent contracts. We are waiting, just as we are also waiting for you to assess where to find the resources. This will certainly be an assessment of the budget law. I am not going to go into the matter of 3% now and the relationship with the European Union. It is a game that, moreover, sees us open to evaluations if we talk about investments, because perhaps the strongest region to make our country competitive lies precisely in the investments and in completing, with all the checks that the Government considers, the great digital and material infrastructures. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] When we talk about TAV, we are not talking about Turin-Lyon, but about Beijing-Kiev-Lisbon. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] It is a question of understanding whether we want Italy - not Turin or Piedmont - not to remain marginal in relation to Europe, and not even for the generation present in this House - just to understand us - but for the future ones, or whether our country should remain a peripheral area. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] However, we will see this in the debate on the budget law and with the appropriate comparisons. Of course, the 2019 budget law will understand whether the Government intends to continue with punitive measures against companies or to focus instead on the valorization of human capital, trying to reward the best, those who work the most. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We are obliged to specify - it is an assessment that I believe the Minister for his part will want to deepen - that, despite the last years have been activated facilitations for the contracts to indefinite time (which to the House the same Government has extended), many companies have chosen the contract to fixed time, because it was the type of contract that was more suited to the perspectives of growth of those enterprises, for the seasonality, for the tourism and for the services. Even conditions have been created that currently make it impossible to activate the contract indefinitely for some who have the company divided and therefore cannot do so, unlike others who, having instead the unitary company and more licenses, can resort to it. There are, therefore, absurd situations of this kind. The same official projections, which today see the activation of 60,000 permanent contracts, thanks to the 162 million incentives now introduced, do not tell us how many would have been activated equally without incentives. So it does not work and we cannot start from the concept of condemning the small and very small enterprises, those of crafts, commerce and manufacturing, which are not represented by Confindustria, colleague Bagnai, but which have created, in any case, in recent years, many more jobs than the general economic growth that has occurred in our country: they have done so with the determined time, starting from a test to arrive then to the indeterminate. These enterprises therefore receive commendation. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] To show us that there is no emergency is the data, however, totally on average, on the contrary, below average compared to the European Union and no one, of course, forbids fixed-term contracts to become permanent. However, being penalised because you work is the last thing entrepreneurs ask for, as well as losing your job. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In fact, the contract cannot be renewed and then eventually transformed into an indefinite term, which is what a worker can ask for. Dignity is having a job in order, perhaps living the hope of seeing the contract renewed. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] As a group we have asked loudly that in particular the colleagues of the League, who shared with us the program of government of the center-right, insist to have the vouchers, because we consider them a solution to regularize as much as possible works that do not have the possibility of continuity and that well meet - even for the public subjects, if introduced - the need to help the weakest groups. Not about everything; some have been placed, at a very limited level, unfortunately, for a few categories, but creating discrimination between similar subjects. I believe it has been shown that only the regulation of contractual forms does not solve the problem. It is the economy that grows that creates work, it is the confidence of entrepreneurs, trust which, as some have said, with five regimes in four months, from here to October, is undermined. In the same way, we fear that the new minimum and maximum limits will create more difficulties and we are wary of action towards employment centres, which so far have created only 3% of employment in their role as a means to employment, employment, to use an old term. On the contrary, we considered it an opportunity to use the decree-law to resolve the school issue, to give paths of certainty to teachers even of equal schools. With regard to relocations... President.Conclude, Senator. PICHETTO FRATIN (FI-BP). ...to hit a few big, and a little evildoers, who have relocated after having perceived the incentives, there is a risk of undermining the process of internationalization of our country, of our businesses and of the smallest enterprises. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Good some other surgeries. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that we have missed the opportunity to give at least a few answers with this decree-law. One of them: Bolkestein. We could give an answer, as well as on the school. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The only connection we see with dignity is to make it lose to the thousands - perhaps even 130,000, as mentioned in the latest figures - that the employment contract will no longer be renewed. For these reasons, we are voting against. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u220	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u221	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u222	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, members of the Government, President Conte, distinguished colleagues, in the wide parliamentary debate that took place on this decree-law, in this House and in the twenty-six hours of the Commission, there have been several points of real interest which this majority has heard, but words have also been used which I find difficult to place in this debate. There has been talk of a decree of indignity and shame: well, with this difficulty, I wonder exactly what we should be ashamed of. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Mr Verducci (PD). Everything! Patuanelli (M5S). Should we be ashamed that we have put the issue of workers' rights at the heart of the political debate? I don't think so. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Should we be ashamed that we have put a further brake on companies that come to exploit workers and aid on this territory and then relocate and leave people on the street? I don't think so. We shouldn't be ashamed. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Should we be ashamed that we wanted to protect that family that, perhaps, has a son or family member on the abyss because of gambling and in the evening while he is dining he sees the advertising of scratch marks and wins? I don't think we should be ashamed of taking away this humiliation from that family. I think we have to be proud of that. [[Senator Ronzulli's comments.]] Colleagues, this measure does not exhaust the issues it touches, but brings to the centre a high political dimension because it attacks the problems, and tries to attack them to the full. Then, we do not accept hearing some oppositions from those words; we do not accept lessons from those who ruled this country for twenty-five years by bringing it under these conditions. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] The only lesson we want to remember is that of March 4th, but perhaps not everyone has made it clear and they have understood it. I think today is a very special day, but not for us in this House, it is special for some people. I want to tell you real stories and I will tell you names that are not invented; they are names of stories that have really been lived. I think of Paolo, a call center consultant who worked for ten years as a precarious worker, and from month to month he didn't know if that contract would be renewed... LONARDO (FI-BP). Think now! Patuanelli (M5S). I repeat, he did not know if his term contract would be renewed. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Paul could not make a future, he could not make a life and I believe that today we begin to guarantee Paul further rights, which he no longer had. [[Comments from FI-BP and PD Groups]] I think of Angelo, who was a warehouseman in a large multinational company, who went to drink one morning and no longer found the badge working, because that multinational now produces eight time zones from this country. I think of Marisa, who has a son who is on the abyss because of gambling. On this subject today we have put at the centre some of the problems that exist, thanks also to the work that has been done in the previous legislature by some colleagues: I think of Giovanni Endrizzi and Matteo Mantero, who are here and who have worked with Caritas and with associations on this problem. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I was saying, we attacked themes. I'm thinking about who, for example, has a VAT number. I think about when, twenty years ago, my father, who was an accountant, disappeared on May 1st and returned on May 31st: that was the time when accountants concentrated on fulfillments, like the famous 740. I think this country's bureaucracy is too much. Today we do something, we do not exhaust that theme, but we attack it in a correct way. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Mr Di Maio, I thank you, because you have been here to listen to the parliamentary debate, which I do not believe is a custom in these classrooms. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Comments from the PD Group).]] MALPEZZI (PD). He's paid to stay here! Patuanelli (M5S). But I also thank you because it gives us the opportunity, by attacking these issues, to return to our territories, to be able to look these people in the eyes and say that today there is someone who deals with their problems. [[Comments from the PD Group]] At last Paul, Angela, Marisa will no longer have a distant reference that they do not perceive, but a Government that tries to interpret their problems and solve them through the measures, which is what politics should always do. I believe that the debate has focused a little too much on the question of less or more jobs. [[Comments from FI-BP and PD Groups]] VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. That's enough! Patuanelli (M5S). But, excuse me, when does a Judaist measure affect job creation? It is a measure dealing with workers' rights. That is the only issue. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Labour law is the subject of these measures. When we talk about economic development and the ideas that this Government has about it, that is when we are going to set the conditions for creating new jobs. But that was not the intention today: today we wanted to put workers' rights back at the centre. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from FI-BP and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u223	Allow Senator Patuanelli to finish his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u224	Patuanelli (M5S). Because we believe that we must reverse the course and ensure that, since my generation is worse than the previous one, our children instead have a better idea of the future and a better perspective than today. The permanent employment contract has been an element of social cohesion in this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , because it guaranteed the possibility of making a mortgage, the possibility of making a family, the possibility of shopping, the possibility of going on vacation. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments of Senator Malpezzi).]] I think the country's economic backbone is not the big business. We have a small, micro and mini business, workers and craftsmen who have the only goal of finding a person to introduce into the small company, to follow not for twelve, twenty-four or thirty-six months, but to bring it together in that company for life and to grow it. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] Madam President, I believe that the words I mentioned earlier do not belong to us: it is not with shame, but with great pride and also, if you will allow me, savouring this taste for the second time in less than two months to approve a conversion to law without recourse to trust, which I declare with great honor the vote in favour of Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Senator Collina's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u225	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot: [[Senators present 282 Senators voting 281 Majority 141 Favourites 155 Contrari 125 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. [[v. Annex B. Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] [[The Senators of the PD Group stand up and display signs with the words: "#byebyelavoro" and "less than 80,000 jobs."]] I urge the quaestors to intervene to remove the cartels. It's a show I'd never want to watch. Take the signs off. This isn't kindergarten. M5S GROUP CHOIR OF VOICES. Dignity! Dignity! Dignity! CHOIR OF VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Shame! Shame! Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, we're not at the stadium. Okay? Quiet! I had thought of a House that was composed and different. We're not in kindergarten with signs. We're not playing. We are in Parliament where everyone expresses what he wants, by the grace of God. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u226	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Senators, at the beginning of this parliamentary term, the Senate Chamber had the opportunity to remember and honour the memory of authentic civil heroes of the fight against the mafia and organised crime, magistrates who for this cause, together with the women and men of their escort, paid a very high tribute, who have never bowed, who have been an example of uprightness and high sense of the State, to whom Italy yesterday and today owes much. Men like Antonino Scopelliti, key magistrate in the fight against the Mafia and one of the most appreciated prosecutor of Cassazione, than on August 9, 1991 ( [[Applause]] ) was murdered in an ambush of 'ndrangheta. Twenty-seven years after that tragic day, we are still far from seeing a definitive word of truth written about the Scopelliti murder. Surely there is only that he was killed because he was feared, because he scanned, deepened, because he had a strong sense of justice and legality. In other words, he did his job. Thanks to the foundation entitled to him, every year the memory of Antonino Scopelliti is renewed through the memory of his actions so that that culture of legality for which he had always fought can definitively take root among the new generations and especially among the young people of a martyred land, where the germ of organized crime is still alive, like Calabria. I invite everyone to a minute's recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u227	The next item is the report by the Government on the tragic incidents in Bologna and Foggia. I call the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Senator Toninelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u228	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me say straight away that the government is close to the families of the victims and the injured, both morally and physically. This is demonstrated by the presence of the President of the Council Giuseppe Conte, today, both in Bologna and in Foggia. It is not conceivable to have to watch shocking scenes like the one we saw and saw yesterday. It's not acceptable. Let me also mention the incident in Puglia: in even more serious terms, a tragedy has been repeated which is a film already seen, after last Saturday's road crash. Yesterday's, before being a very serious accident, is the extreme chapter of a horrible history of exploitation, a modern form of slavery that we cannot tolerate in this country. The boss must be eradicated and the Minister of Labour Luigi Di Maio has done well to refer to an intensification of controls against undeclared work, through a greater number of inspectors. It is absurd that a tragedy is needed to put in the spotlight a phenomenon that, year after year, season after season, harvest after harvest, offends that sense of humanity that should lodge in each of us. Those sixteen boys had come to Italy to have a better future and instead they found death. The twelve deceased yesterday probably traveled standing and crammed, altogether in fourteen, in a van that could bring up to eight people. Returning to the facts of Bologna, yesterday, August 6, at 13:50, the command of the fire department of Bologna received a call for the explosion of a 25 cubic meter truck on the A14 motorway, at the height of Borgo Panigale (Bologna), on the overpass of via Marco Emilio Lepido. As a result of the massive explosion, the lane suffered considerable damage, with the collapse of the overpass. The balance of the persons involved is of a confirmed victim Andrea Anzolin of Noventa Vicentina, class 1976, to the leader of the trir of the company Their Brothers of Lonigo, in the province of Vicenza, that has piled up the truck then exploded and has caused about 145 wounded. Numerous fired cars, which for the most part belong to two nearby autoconcessionaries. Firefighters have been working for hours to put out the fire that flared up after the fight. Once the flames went out, it was necessary to cool the area and continue the search and location of other victims or wounded. The wounded were immediately transported to the nearest hospital facilities. According to the first reconstructions, the accident was caused by the driver of the vehicle carrying LPG. The cargo caught fire and started a series of chain explosions, which affected the nearby barracks of the Carabinieri of Borgo Panigale, causing the injury of eleven carabinieri. Three policemen were also injured. Great credit goes to the Forces of Order, for avoiding worse consequences with their prompt intervention. [[Applause]] From the images recorded by Autostrade's cameras for Italy, the truck seems not to have braked, despite the tail signposted, ending on a stationary vehicle carrying drums of solvent. The driver of this truck, who was injured, is Antonio Verdicchio di San Felice in Gate, born in 1973. The tamponade also involved a bisarch, whose driver, also injured, of Romanian nationality, class 1976, is called Silviu Partenie. The tamponing triggered the fire that, after about four minutes, caused the explosion of the tank, which in turn caused the collapse of the underlying infrastructure. During the night all technical checks were carried out by Autostrade per l'Italia, accompanied by loading tests of adjacent infrastructures, which were successful and did not show any problems on the structural parts of the same work adjacent to the collapsed parts. Therefore, in the night it was possible to restore the damaged pavement of the north roadway adjacent to that of the accident and to prepare the signs and safety boundaries for the reopening of the highway, which took place this morning at 9.10 a.m., in single lane in exchange of roadway. At the same time the ring road was reopened in the direction of Casalecchio. At the moment the ring road is closed in the opposite direction, limited to the section between junction 2 and junction 3. This is a first important, albeit partial, response after the tragedy in order to make traffic more fluid, given the summer exodus. With regard to the reconstruction, Autostrade per l'Italia is verifying at the main national and European producers the availability in prompt delivery of 12 beams with center supports of 24,65 meters and with height of 1.10 meters. Such availability would make it possible to significantly reduce the reconstruction time, otherwise estimated in no less than five months. Regarding the costs of restoration of the existing, the company Autostrade for Italy informs that, at the moment, they are quantifiable in principle in one million euros, including demolition and provisional interventions. The traffic simulations tell us that with the current situation we will not have inconveniences on the highway until September. We are certainly faced with a great tragedy, which involved not only a section of the motorway, but an entire district of the city of Bologna. As a government we are monitoring the situation minute by minute and we are trying to restore sufficient levels of circulation. Experts from my ministry, along with three state undersecretaries, are at the scene of the accident. Our presence there wants to be a sign of my closeness and of the whole Ministry alongside the relatives of the victims and the wounded. We will continue to be present at the scene of the accident to follow closely the developments of the incident and shed light on this umpteenth tragedy. Forces of the Order, Police, Civil Protection, Fire Departments, Prefecture, Municipalities and Ministries, each through the competent offices, are at work in coordination with each other to do whatever is necessary. A few hours ago an operational summit was held in Prefecture, also to identify the availability of sites in order to proceed to the operations of demolition of unstable parts of the infrastructure and the removal of crushed materials on the underlying via Bragaglia, preparatory operations to the intervention of reconstruction of the highway seat. In the meantime, I have already expressed my firm will to act on two fronts. On the one hand, there is a need to lighten road freight traffic and, in addition, the need to equip trucks with technologies that minimise the possibility of human error. This Ministry therefore wants to encourage the installation on the means that carry dangerous goods - that exceed 35,000 units, according to the data in our possession - of assisted driving devices. I'm talking about anti-collision devices, automatic braking, predictive speed control, now found quite common in our newest cars and that cannot help but accompany these heavy vehicles, which risk every moment to turn into walking devices. In this regard, my Ministry is giving a strong input to the road testing of connected and automatic smart road and driving solutions and is introducing, among other things, vehicle-infrastructure interaction systems, capable of conveying information and services of interest for the safety and efficiency of driving and traffic, as well as systems for interaction and collaboration between vehicles. Maximum safety standards need to be ensured; there are already sufficiently up-to-date specific rules concerning the transport of dangerous goods by road, even profiled according to the type of equipment. I will still check whether the rules have been complied with. In addition, my Ministry and the Government will work in the European debate on the mobility package to strike a fair balance between the working conditions of drivers and the freedom to provide cross-border services for transporters. A correct and fair alternation between driving times and rest periods must be contemplated, ensuring full protection for road workers. This protection is all too often called into question by forms of unfair competition, which penalise our road haulage companies. Finally, I would like to stress that I do not allow anyone to exploit in a becero and shameful way what happened yesterday in Borgo Panigale [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , unduly linking the mourning event to the debate about certain infrastructure solutions, which concern the Bologna area. This is a dossier on which this Ministry is working hard, in order to guarantee the best solution for all citizens in this case too. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u229	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Government. Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u230	Mr President, I shall keep my remarks to a minimum because there is not much that can be said in five minutes. First of all, I welcome the fact that this morning the President-in-Office of the Council went to Foggia and Bologna, because I believe that if under certain circumstances the authorities of the State show themselves on the spot even physically is not bad: it is a sign of solidarity not only formal. I therefore express my appreciation for this. [[Applause from the M5S, FI-BP and PD Groups.]] Secondly, on the events of Foggia the Minister used the following words: horrible history of exploitation. I believe that we all share your words in this House. On this we cannot divide ourselves: to see people, human beings, with their dignity, gathered on a truck of this kind as beasts - because this is the reality - means not to maintain that minimum level of humanity that is essential for our society to function well. The Minister spoke of more controls and more prevention; unfortunately, I have heard of this at other times and I hope that we can really do more control and more prevention. I would like to say one thing to all my fellow Members: we often see the phenomenon of illegal immigrants in our country and blame it, beyond the political positions that we have in this House. Well, let's never forget - and these facts bring it back to us hard - that behind so much undergroundness, so many times there are unscrupulous Italians who use these people and exploit them indecently. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), FI-BP and PD and Senator Bonfrisco]] I want to say this because, if we do not realize that there is also this face of the moon, then we cannot make a serene and serious assessment of the whole matter. That happened in Bologna, for obvious reasons, is the story that led me yesterday to take the floor in this House after the first news. I think it is right to review the regulations on dangerous loads and it is good that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport put in place devices to test new safety mechanisms. I'm not an expert, but it's certainly all positive. It is also good that there has been a timely and immediate response to restore viability and demolish what needs to be demolished. Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that a neighborhood in Bologna has been semi-dwelled. There is, therefore, an immediate compensation problem for the victims' families; there is a problem of citizens involved in their homes, with homes that have suffered serious damage or that are partially unworkable; there is a problem of companies and productive realities that have been devastated by this explosion and therefore must be compensated. I believe that the Municipality of Bologna, the Region and the State are not three realities isolated from each other; they are three realities called, in this case, to exercise a loyal collaboration between the powers of the State to give a response, in terms of compensation and compensation, that must be as quick as possible, because we cannot tolerate the times that unfortunately many times we see in events of this type. I have nothing more to add, except to address a thank you to the Forces of Order, the Fire Department, the Carabinieri and the Police, who have once again shown how important they are and in how much spirit of self-denial they defend the citizens. One last word, however, you gave it to me, Minister: to use this type of thing in a way that would be used in order to surreptitiously introduce an assessment of the middle passerby would be shameful. I believe that no one can realistically think of using this matter to put a question on which we - Bolognese, we local authorities in Bologna, we Regione Emilia-Romagna - are trying to talk with her. But you know that the problem exists. I have seen this government act very consistently. I have heard the President of the Veneto Region and the President of the Lombardy Region say that they have made a plan on infrastructure and that the Government has guaranteed that it will respect that plan. Well, I hope - and as you can see I have made a very serene speech - that the same metro will be applied by the Government for the Emilia-Romagna Region, because there are no family of series A and B, the Regions are all equal, in a relationship of collaboration and loyalty with the Central Government. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u231	Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u232	Minister, I appreciate your words when you spoke of a horrible history of superexploiting. For brevity, I stress the statement made by Senator Casini: it is clear that here there are serious responsibilities of Italians, on which we must intervene. Minister Centinario assured us, precisely following our request, that he does not intend to amend the law on the caporalate, but intends to monitor. I say that we must apply it; we need a blow of the kidney and the Government must do everything provided for in that law, so that it will bear positive fruit, which is the reason for which that law was born. As for the serious incident in Bologna, I must stress the great work of the Forces of Order, as was said yesterday, in particular of the Fire Departments, and express appreciation for the presence of the Government, because this attention, which is a value for the communities, is never taken for granted. However, a restoration work must be carried out immediately. The things you said are important, bearing in mind that we are facing a strategic road junction. It is a good thing to take on all the damage and work for new technologies, but I think we also need to think about new rules for dangerous transport. It's okay to use new security technologies. I do not intend to make any instrumentalization, Minister, I just say to you that on the node of Bologna we must find strategic solutions, we must think not only today or the coming years, but have, as is proper of a serious country, the ability to make choices for the next fifty years and finally give a strategic solution to a node that does not only concern Bologna or Emilia-Romagna, but that concerns Italy and Europe. We use all technologies, environmental impact assessment, the protection of citizens' safety, but we find the form to make a merit-based reasoning that is able to give a true answer. Otherwise, we will always be in dire difficulty. I trust that this willingness on the part of the Government will be there and there will be our attention and our willingness to cooperate to find a true answer to this very serious problem. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u233	He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u234	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, like the senators who preceded me, I too appreciated the speech by the Minister, who came to report, and also the content of what the Minister said. As for the tragedy on the streets of Puglia, I believe that those twelve dead must question the consciences of all of us, because this is certainly the result of having opened the doors to everyone, to create, then, in Italy a new slavery, that takes advantage of these desperate, exploits them and forces them to live, to work, to move, to be transported in an inhuman way. To argue that Italy needs labour and then to see how labour is treated in our country, by unscrupulous people, for pure profit, I think it is not worthy of a great civil country, like Italy. [[Applause from the FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] The disaster in Bologna challenges the institutions, the legislator, all those who have to deal with safety on our roads, the fact that every day hundreds of dangerous transports are circulating for users, for citizens, for those who are on the road. From this point of view, too, I believe that the Minister is right, when he says that it is not imaginable that today advanced tools are available for safe driving of the simple cars that are circulating on our roads and that these instruments are not made available to means that are real devices on the road. We are very happy and willing to cooperate on this. It is necessary to proceed as soon as possible, in order to anticipate that these vehicles are equipped with advanced forms of assistance to the driving, of anti-collision devices, as the Minister recalled, for the control of the speed, for the automatic braking, for the automatic maintenance of the lane and the distance of safety; they are all instruments that the technology offers today. We must therefore make it easier, by means of the law and by means of incentives, including economic incentives, for companies to be provided with them, to do so as quickly as possible. Without prejudice to the fact that, however, it always remains an imponderable factor, due to the fact that there are people driving these vehicles, who can have a sickness or a sleep stroke. From this point of view too, Minister, I think we need to ask ourselves whether we need to equip these dangerous transports with a second driver, as is the case, for example, for long-travel trucks. There is also a need to consider the need for, for example, time and day restrictions. In a day like a black bubble, not even a red one, it is to be wondered if it was really necessary that this transport should be carried out at that time and in those times. Minister, Brothers of Italy and myself, as a Member of Emilia-Romagna, are certainly ready to cooperate so that on our tragedies of this kind do not occur again. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u235	Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u236	Mr President, the Democratic Party also joins in mourning the families of missing persons and is close to the families and wounded of these two tragic events, which have so much affected public opinion, but not only. In fact, in a set of situations, certainly different from each other, have brought out very tragic conditions on which we certainly need to reflect. I thank Minister Toninelli for the timely information and the President Conte for having found the reasons for being able to go to the places of accidents. They are two different facts, certainly, because the first accident, that of Foggia, which also recalls another event that took place a few days ago, put before us a reality that we already knew. You see, Minister, there was no need for such tragic facts to be able to deal with the subject of the Head of State. We, in the last parliamentary term, faced it in Parliament, tried to put our hand in it, and I believe that that is a law that the government can use and improve. We are all willing to work together to find the best conditions to apply it in the most effective way. From this point of view we are available for a confrontation absolutely unobtrusive and focused on finding the right ways to deal with the problem even quickly. On the second event I have a brief consideration: at 13:30 there was the event, at 14:30 an entire department of the Major Hospital was prepared to welcome the wounded (more than a hundred, while the lightest were hijacked elsewhere); at 16:00 the four most serious wounded were transported to the centers for large burns of Cesena and Parma; at 18:00 every fire was completely extinguished, even to the cars of the neighbouring dealers; at 19:00 the police broadcast the videos of the accident. This morning at 9.30 a.m. the section of the ring road that had remained accessible was reopened. This description means how much the system called upon to guard our security, even downstream of these tragic events, is absolutely formed, ready and capable of intervening effectively. I agree with what my colleagues Mr Casini, Mr Errani and Mr Balboni have said and it will be a coincidence if I too am from Emilia Romagna. But look, Minister, for the incidents that take place in Bologna could speak, with the same reason and with the same need to be interested, any Member and senator of Italy, because from there we all pass. All the citizens who work in the transport sector or who use the infrastructure in our territory pass through us. Just think, to move on to another theme, to us who travel continuously and often by train. Bologna is a strategic hub, from which every ten minutes a train leaves that takes us to Rome. Bologna is an absolutely important and neurological knot of the whole country: it could speak a Apulian, as well as a Senator from Valdostano or Friuli, because the knot of Bologna is the most important in the country. It is far from us any thought of instrumentalization at this stage, because it would make no sense, but I believe that this awareness is of everyone and we must have it present at this moment. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u237	Senator Campari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u238	Mr President, Minister, yesterday I made my speech on the Bologna accident, which I will also talk about today, but this time I prefer to start with the Foggia accident. Those deaths are twice victims: victims of this terrible accident and victims of their status as exploited workers and workers, as Senator Casini also said, who are part of them despite a system that has seen them twice victims. The fact that we are being exploited by unscrupulous people is also one of the reasons why we are fighting illegal immigration so seriously and punctually. So I absolutely share the position expressed by the senator and go further. We will absolutely never stop and the fight against the emergency of illegal immigrants will be one of our battles that will not see discounts, even for the whole system that is then generated by this status. As far as the facts of Bologna are concerned, we have already said a lot. Bologna is a strategic hub. Our Prime Minister, Count, did well to go immediately to both Foggia and Bologna. In fact, it is true that the State must show itself and make its presence felt to the families, but it must also realize in person what has happened. The state machine, however much in its power, worked very well. The motorway has already been reopened (although, of course, with only one track) in record time. As we have been told, this has been done safely, because all the necessary evidence has been made. Therefore, I would like to congratulate all those who have succeeded in this undertaking. It is worth remembering, once again, the heroic effort that all our Forces of Order make every time events of this kind occur. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Collina]] They are truly heroes, because they never ask and they are always there. We must always remember that. My thoughts go to the victim's family, to all the injured and their families, with the hope, as I said yesterday, of a prompt and complete recovery. We know that these tragedies are really difficult to metabolize even at the emotional level, because they leave scars not only physical, but also very emotional, but very deep. For this reason, we renew our compliments to the state organization and our condolences to the victim's family, with the hope of a prompt recovery for all the wounded. I also express my condolences for the victims in Puglia. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u239	He's enlisted to speak Senator Aimi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u240	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you for the speed with which you have come to this House to report on these tragedies that have affected Italy. Thanks also for the presence of the Government both in Foggia, and in Bologna at a terrible time for the nation. I would like to highlight a few points. The two tragedies are naturally linked to the road, but they have - probably - a different nature. That of Foggia concerns the transport of people who have been loaded on a kind of cattle cart. I would remind you that, in this House too, we have been calling for an increase in new technologies, such as braking systems, which is not compatible with a situation which, in certain parts of Italy, is evident and in the eyes of everyone. We have the rules to prevent and even suppress. We must, of course, carry out checks. You, Minister, have this possibility. Coming to the case of Bologna, I would like to say - I was talking to Mr Cangini about it earlier - that we have been discussing the passerby for over twenty years now. Twenty years have passed, very often simply chatting. Now the spotlight has turned on this problem and on this tragedy, which will also have to deal with the problem of the transport of dangerous goods, but which will also have to deal with the problem of the passerby. We have always indicated the South passerby. We must remember, in fact, that the accident occurred, essentially, in the center of Bologna, in the area that goes from the two Towers to the Madonna di San Luca. It is an accident involving a restaurant, which involved public facilities and which led to 145 injuries, including, as you mentioned, Minister, eleven policemen and three policemen. In this regard, I would also like, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, to thank, as we had already done yesterday, the Forces of Order, the Fire Department, the Police, the Carabinieri, but also those who intervened: to the doctors and to all those in the hospitals who took charge of helping very quickly. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Casini]] An impeccable organization, which is naturally due to that love that Italians have for their neighbor and also to their competence. Let me say, however, that it would also be time, after so many years, to move from words to deeds. Minister, you have a chance. Great works have been done in Italy. We insert on the government's agenda the possibility to verify whether it is possible to realize this too: finally having a passerby to the South of Bologna in order to decongestante that traffic that in many situations, like the one that we have seen and was before the eyes of all, has led to that immense tragedy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] If, instead of chatting for so many years, of holding conferences, of discussing, we had really gone from words to deeds, this tragedy probably would not have happened. I also want to express the feeling of my deepest condolences, which is not only the personal one, but the entire Group, to the families of the victims and the wounded, wishing them a more prompt recovery. I would ask, Minister, for a commitment from the Government to include this fundamental issue on the agenda. First Senator Collina talked about those who did not come to Bologna and did not cross that part of the city. We have the need to bring this problem to everyone's attention, in synergy with the Region, the State and the Municipality, so that we can not only reach a compensation for those damages, but also a solution to that long-standing problem. Let us hope, finally, that this can be resolved. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u241	Senator Santillo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u242	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Toninelli for his information. First of all, I would like to express my condolences on behalf of the political group which I represent to the families of the victims. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I would like to ask you if you could make my colleagues observe a little silence. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u243	Colleagues, I invite those who are not interested in leaving the Chamber. Please continue, Senator Santillo.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u244	SANTILLO (M5S). Mr President, as I was saying, I wish to express my condolences to the families of the victims of the very serious road accidents that occurred yesterday both in Lesina, in the province of Foggia, and in Bologna. A tragedy that has upset the whole country but, at the same time, has shown the best face in the courage, professionalism and solidarity of all men and women of the Forces of Order, the means of relief, volunteers and all citizens who at the moment of events have worked to give help: this is the true face of Italy, constituted by citizens who have always been united in the moment of need. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We believe that we need to learn a lesson for the future from what has happened. As Prime Minister Conte also said, road accidents are dictated by chance but, in this case, surely yesterday there was much more than chance. We must not only ask ourselves what happened, but also investigate events and, above all, propose solutions quickly that prevent such events. Today we can have advanced technology that can greatly limit human error to driving. We have and must use the best technology at our disposal to prevent death and destruction like yesterday in Bologna. At the same time, and on the contrary, yesterday in Foggia there was a massacre of seasonal workers, all Africans and presumably victims of the caporalate, which leaves really upset. It is not possible for people in vans to be collected without any safety equipment, vans that are totally unfit for the transport of people, of desperate workers treated as if they were boxes of tomatoes to be simply brought to the market. It's a massacre we need to question. In the areas from which I come, in the casertano - we think of Castel Volturno or Mondragone - every day it is possible to see these wagons full of human lives transported without any dignity, and then be exploited in the fields. It is even more urgent to prevent this crime that is consumed in the light of the sun, a crime of caporalate that puts at risk the lives of poor workers, with corporals who for their gain also put at risk the lives of all those who travel the same streets of these vans of death. Therefore, I am comforted not only by the words of Minister Toninelli, but also those of Minister Di Maio, who yesterday promised a grip against the caporalate and, as I have already said, the same words of commitment expressed by Prime Minister Conte. It comforts me, therefore, that the entire Government is placing the utmost attention and commitment on different critical issues, which can be forerunners of death and destruction. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u245	I declare closed the discussion on the information of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u246	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u247	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u248	BINETTI (FI-BP). Mr President, I rise to call for a series of questions, which we have tabled for several months now, some of which are indeed urgent. I want to point out three in particular. The first is question 4-00182, presented to the Minister of Justice and concerning children who have been removed from their family. We understand perfectly how the situation can be really complicated, not only for families as such, but for the very future of children. Having clarity on this also seems to me crucial as a matter of justice, for the right of children to the family and not so many times for the alleged right of families to the child. The second question, the 3-00163, seems to me equally urgent and concerns the Red Cross. It has happened in these days of events quite inconvenient. The question was published and there was an incursion that somehow deprived the President of the volunteers of the Red Cross of some of its prerogatives autonomously under the law. I believe that it would be interesting to offer a clear response to the country as regards the Red Cross, precisely because of the symbolic value represented by the Rosa Cross, which was also present in Foggia and Bologna yesterday with concrete interventions. The image of the Red Cross cannot be allowed to remain somewhat confused. This question was submitted at the same time as the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Health, on which the volunteers depend in part for the double affference of orders. The third question, 4-00355, concerns health questions. We must say that all the debate we are having these days has been chaired by a series of questions which have never been answered. I believe that this could be a sign of good will of the Senate, which, when the work is resumed, begins with questions, so that they can find the answer that the word urgency defines as a dialogue of serenity and, I would say, also of dignity in the relationship between senators and citizens. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u249	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u250	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u251	FERRARA (M5S). Dear President, dear colleagues, at 8.15 a.m. on August 6, 1945, the United States dropped the first atomic bomb in history on the Japanese city of Hiroshima. The name of the bomb was "Little Boy"; the number of direct victims cannot be precise because many evaporated, but probably between 100,000 and 200,000. On August 10, three days later, another device was launched on Nagasaki, "Fat Man" ("Fat Man"). The release, however, was not particularly precise and the bomb shone in an area of the city defended from the mountains. Despite this, at least 40,000 people died at once and many more thousands were burned. It is really hard to imagine how those men and women who were going to go to work or accompany the children to school felt. There weren't even images of atomic explosions. None of the citizens of Hiroshima and Nagasaki had seen such a light or heard such a sudden and devastating sound. Without the city around, without reference points, in a hot torrid and hit by heavy black radioactive rain, the survivors wandered aimlessly. Then many, hoping to stop the terrible burns, threw themselves into the river, but in some places it boiled and soon filled with floating bodies. The U.S. atomic bombs were a test of force that the United States wanted to demonstrate in Moscow. In fact, already during the Second World War it was understood that the future antagonism would be between the two winning powers of the war, the USA and the USSR. President, ladies and gentlemen, there are so many atomic weapons in the world today that they could blow up the Planet over and over again. Russia has developed an atomic device called "Satan 2" and each of these bombs can disintegrate a territory as extensive as France. I would like to remind you that on our national territory there are US atomic weapons, the B-61, which make us violate the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty that we ratified in 1975, as well as making us a sensitive target. I say away the atomic weapons from our national territory. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] According to SIPRI in Stockholm, around $1,860 billion in arms are invested worldwide each year. Less than 50 would be enough to put an end to the world's hunger, with all the consequences, including the migratory phenomenon. I conclude by saying that it is essential to start a process of denuclearization and put an end to this war economy, to that industrial military complex feared by Dwight Eisenower. The time has come to no longer invest in instruments of death, but in culture of life. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u252	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u253	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u254	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by expressing my condolences for the tragedies that took place yesterday. As the Minister recalled earlier, in Foggia, in just three days, in two separate road accidents, sixteen farm workers lost their lives, returning from work in the fields. I very much welcome today's Minister's reply and I also welcome the fact that President Conte and Minister Salvini have been to Foggia today in order to be able to speak immediately on the issue of the fight against the caporalate. That said, on August 9 last year, in San Marco in Lamis there was a tragic event, a massacre of mafias, in which also two innocent citizens, the Luciani brothers, eyewitnesses of a mafia ambush, lost their lives. The day after tomorrow marks the first anniversary of this tragic event, and the Luciani brothers will be remembered in San Marco in Lamis with various commemorative events. Today, in addition to joining the right and proper memory, I want once again to draw the attention of this Assembly and the Government to the very serious problem represented by the fourth Italian mafia, that is, the mafias of the province of Foggia, as defined by the former national anti-mafia prosecutor. On this occasion today I would like to reiterate the absolute necessity for all the acts of conflict that our legal system envisages, starting with the increase of the Forces of Order, to end with the increase of the judicial garrisons. On this last point, I no longer believe that the establishment in Foggia of a detached section of the Anti-Mafia District Directorate, in order to increase the quality and quantity of anti-Mafia investigations, can be postponed. On this need, moreover, the CPMP expressed itself in the framework of the resolutions on the Foggia mafias of 18 October 2017, and on this aspect I have just presented a draft law. I should like to conclude by reminding the Luciani brothers and all the other victims of the Mafia, and I would like to add that all of us in this House and outside will not give up until the mafias are defeated. And we say this to the Mafia: we will never give up! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Buccarella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u255	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u256	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u257	FAITH (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw the attention of this House to the health situation in my constituency in the Marches, which includes the province of Ascoli Piceno, as you all know, sadly affected by the seismic events of 2016 which have been the subject of recent legislative work carried out by this House and which I have had the honour to participate in. Given therefore the delicacy and importance of the topic in question, we must speak clearly, because we cannot play on health and public health care, as the Marche Region is doing now, whose choices are increasingly irrational, especially in the South of our Region. It is last week, in fact, the vote of the conference of the mayors of the province of Ascoli Piceno that, in contempt of the principle of representativeness of the population and following the regional directives, has endorsed the choice of the Region Marche to build a new hospital far from the two main centers of the province, Ascoli Piceno and San Benedetto del Tronto, that will see, therefore, their current hospitals, already the object of heavy cuts over the years (especially that of San Benedetto del Tronto), reduced in fact to being of hospital garrisons, waiting for it to be realized, perhaps in a few decades, a new hospital of first level, happens in a municipal reality administered by a civic list referable to the political area of who currently governs the Region and that will go to the renewal of the municipal offices next year. On these choices remains the doubt whether they are dictated by a disdainable political opportunism and completely detached from the right to health that the Republic constitutionally guarantees to every citizen. Now the real question to ask is: what will happen to health care in Piceno? Waiting for this fantastic unique hospital of the Province, of which we do not yet have a project and a certain process of works and whose location has been decided by an algorithm, what services will the current hospitals of Ascoli Piceno and San Benedetto del Tronto erode? What political vision does the Marche Region have? This region, instead of strengthening some essential services such as health services in its area (the most affected by the recent seismic events), in fact implements a reduction of the existing and proposes mirages of unique hospitals, with obvious short-term electoral aims. In addition, does it apply in an opportunistic way the regulatory forecasts of the Balduzzi decree, relating to the basins of hospital users, parametering these basins of users, only on the basis of the regional borders, in a border area of the Region that, as in the case of San Benedetto del Tronto, also serves much of the area North of the bordering Abruzzo? In conclusion, it seemed necessary to put the attention of all of you on these choices of the Marche Region, which are also going against the efforts that this Assembly has carried out and will continue to carry out in order to revive the places hit by the earthquake of 2016, both those directly affected, like the mountain area of Ascolano, and those indirectly affected in their main economic flywheel, tourism, as in the case of the area of the Riviera delle Palme in which insists the current hospital of San Benedetto del Tronto. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u258	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u259	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u260	Garavini (PD). And when you go down the first time, your heart goes up your throat, even your stomach actually. The first time you go down to the mine, you throw up. When the elevator leaves, it feels like a burst, then you get used to it. But the first time you think something went wrong, you're going down, the elevator's going down too fast. Everything becomes dark and those few lights you see intermittently make your head burst, so much so that you prefer to close your eyes. Mr President, this is a passage from a theatrical performance by a young man from Catania, Alessandro Idonea, who, taking his cue from Marcinelle's massacre, wrote this piece: ""262 clothes hung". 262 were those clothes that were not redressed by their owners; 262, often very young, foreigners for the most part; 136 of them, Italians. Nationals who, since the fifties, went abroad, in particular to Belgium, to work. President, tomorrow marks the 62nd anniversary of this massacre. You are honored that you yourself wanted to send a greeting to the family of the victims gathered tomorrow at 8.30 a.m., when 262 chimes will be played, just in memory of these fallen. I think it is important to remember in these classrooms this massacre just today, immediately after the information of the Government, which reminded us, once again, of yesterday's massacre of new foreign citizens, who died for example in Puglia. I think it is a warning to all of us not only to remember the sacrifice of those of our fellow citizens, but also to induce us to continue in our battle to increase and improve the standard levels of safety at work and also to keep in mind that those migrants and those workers, who even just a few hours ago died, are nothing more than the projection today of our fellow citizens of that time who, starting from the fifties, left our country in search of better conditions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u261	In wishing everyone, those who are there and even those who are now gone, a good holiday, I communicate that the Commissions will resume their work from Tuesday 4 September. However, the Commission shall be authorised to convene at any time in relation to any need arising in matters within its competence.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u262	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-33.ana.u263	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 11 September, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.13 a.m.
