ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 12:01 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the President-in-Office's statement on the economic maneuver, already scheduled for 12 noon, will take place at 1 p.m. I therefore suspend the sitting until 1 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.04 p.m. and resumed at 13.14 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u3	The next item is the report by the President of the Council of Ministers on economic maneuvering. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u4	Dear President, Senators and Senators, in reporting to Parliament on the outcome of the dialogue with the European Commission, I would first like to express my heartfelt thanks to all of you, by a majority but also by opposition, for the understanding shown during these days during which the process of examining the draft budget law has proceeded slowly, short of a delay in relation to the time allowed. The referrals were not caused - as you know - by uncertainties within the majority of the Government. In recent days, your examination has been slowed down, leading to the inevitable compression of the debate in the Commission because of the complex intercourse that has taken place with the extension of the European Union, to which we have devoted our most resolute energies and our most intense commitment. This intercourse has inexorably taken us a long time - as is inevitable, on the other hand - in a negotiation characterized by strong political connotations, although unraveled along the track of a tight technical confrontation of a financial and accounting nature. In these weeks, during which the channels of dialogue have never stopped, we have worked to bring the positions closer, without ever going back - I would like to point out - to the objectives that, with the vote of 4 March, the Italians have considered priority in the action of government. As you know, in order to respond to the urgency and needs felt by citizens and businesses, we have implemented measures of social equity, inclusion and income support which, on the basis of an initial estimate, have resulted, together with other investment measures, in a deficit of 2.4%. In the face of the Government's decision, the European Commission has expressed its reservations, announcing the launch of an infringement procedure for excessive deficit against Italy. This was a prospect for our country that had to be avoided. We have worked with the utmost determination to avoid the infringement procedure, dialogue on several occasions with the President and some members of the European Commission in particular, but also with various Heads of State and Government of individual Member States, in order to explain to our interlocutors the broader reform plan and persuade them of the opportunity to arrive, in mutual interest, at a shared solution. We have fully safeguarded our approach to budgetary manoeuvre. We have not given in to content, certain of the virtuous affections... (There are malfunctions in the audio system).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u5	It is preferable to change microphones. Let's try another one. [[Comments from the PD Group. Ironic applause from the FI-BP Group. Senator Pucciarelli's comments.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). Don't take it out on me! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Ma'am, I'm sorry, but I suggest you use another microphone. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] , President of the Council of Ministers. We have not given up on the contents, certain of the virtuous effects that in the medium term an expansive maneuver can determine on the economic and social fabric and still firm in the determinations... BELLANOVA (PD). It's growing! [[Comments from the M5S Group]] FARAONE (PD). Be quiet! Calm down. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Information has been requested several times in the Conference of the Leaders. Now, then, all of you have the patience to listen. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups.]] AIROLA (M5S). Shut up and listen! [[Comments from the PD Group.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please, I don't think this is the time for controversy. Let the President-in-Office finish. President, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u6	. ..firm in the determinations assumed with the government contract, that is to answer the need, strongly felt, to reverse the policies of rigour that in the past years have aggravated the crisis, leading to a strong compression of incomes, a reduction of consumption, a general impoverishment of large sections of the population. BELLANOVA (PD). In fact, trust grows! [[Protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u7	Senator, if you are still speaking, you must leave the Chamber. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az, FI-BP and FdI Groups.]] [[Comments and ironic applause from Senator Bellanova.]] If he intervenes again, he goes out. I'm wary of you. You have to shut up! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Buccarella.]] [[Ironic applause from Senator Bellanova.]] Please, President Count.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u8	When the Commission formalized its reservations on the revised version on 21 November last... BELLANOVA (PD). I don't wear a gag! [[Comments from M5S and FI-BP Groups.]] AIROLA (M5S). Get out! Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. When the Commission formalized its reservations on the revised version of the draft budgetary plan presented by Italy, the margins of negotiation were immediately really contained and executed. It was then that, with the support of the Vice-Presidents, Ministers, and the Minister for Economic Affairs in particular, I assumed the burden and also the responsibility to reconnect the threads of the dialogue so that the reform process that the Government intended to carry out with this first economic manoeuvre would not be compromised. I therefore insisted with President Junker that he be available for a further meeting, which took place on Saturday 24 November, at a working dinner attended by Minister Tria, the Vice President of the Commission and responsible for the euro and the social dialogue Dombrovskis, and the Commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs Moscovici. On that occasion I presented the broad reform project of the Government, asking my interlocutors that the economic maneuver be evaluated not only at the filter of the various accounting balances, but more widely in the light of the articulated spectrum of interventions - some already carried out, others in the advanced phase of elaboration - all aimed at simplifying, improving, the relations between the State, citizens and enterprises. At that meeting - as well as at further meetings informally held in the margins of the G20 in Buenos Aires - I was able to record some rigid positions, but at the same time - I must say - also some significant openings to dialogue. Following the outcome of these talks, a further effort by the Government was necessary to verify the viability of interventions to improve the final balances contained in the budget law, in line with the findings made by the Commission. We have therefore worked to ensure that the economic and financial estimates of the measures, especially those of a social and social nature, which had attracted the attention of our European partners, are regularly quantified with appropriate technical reports. These evaluations, which took time, revealed that the resources actually needed for the implementation of the two main actions were - and are - lower than those initially planned. This has allowed the deficit to be reduced from the initially estimated value of 2.4% to a value attested to around 2.04 percent, without changing it, nor in the contents - attention! - neither with regard to the audience of the recipients, nor with regard to the implementation times already originally planned [[Comments of Senators Pharaoh and Malan]] the most important planned interventions. I would like to say this again: citizenship income and 100 share will start in the time we had planned. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). Who believes that? Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. With these new figures I went to Brussels last Wednesday, 12 December, for a new confrontation with President Juncker and Commissioner Dombrovskis and Commissioner Moscovici. At that meeting, as well as during some talks with various European leaders in the margins of the Council held on 13 and 14 December, I reiterated the need for the Italian Government's efforts to achieve a balance and convergence point not to be frustrated by an approach that would take into account the strict calculation of deviations. To the outcome of further talks, until yesterday morning's decisive talks, which led to a significant progress in the negotiation, I formalized Italy's position with a letter to the summits of the European Commission, signed together with Minister Tria, who joined me in this complex negotiation. In the letter, in addition to reporting on the new quantifications of expenditure measures, I noted that the changes will necessarily have to take into account the evolution of the macroeconomic framework, which shows, alas, a consequent deterioration, mainly due to the poor performance of international trade. The slowdown in the economic cycle now calls for an update of the growth forecasts, with the indication of a planned GDP of 1% for next year, with a change that affects - attention: in some respects also positive - [[Comments of Senator Bernini]] on budgetary balances and on the scale of the structural correction required by the Stability and Growth Pact. [[Ironic applause from the FI-BP Group]] In the context of the measures taken to reduce budgetary balances, as indicated by the public finance manoeuvre, provided for in the draft budget law for the three-year period 2019-2021, in order to respond to the requests made by the European Commission when examining the budgetary plan paper, the measures contained in the draft budget law were first refined, as already mentioned, also with a view to determining more precisely the exact scope of the interventions planned and the cover identified. Thanks to this activity it has been possible to revise the annual burden of the measures referred to in the Fund for the income of citizenship and that for the pension interventions, keeping intact - I repeat - the concrete impact of these two measures. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Measures have also been envisaged to limit pension expenditure, which are based on the cooling of the scheme for indexing pension treatment of the largest amount. In addition, there is intervention on the so-called gold pensions, with a reduction in the higher treatments, through the provision of a temporary and progressive solidarity contribution per income bracket: a measure of social equity, from which we have obtained additional resources. The effects of the priority use by the regions of the resources already allocated in the programmes co-financed by the European Structural and Investment Funds for the implementation of environmental and hydrogeological risk mitigation measures have therefore been quantified. In addition, measures are introduced to facilitate the implementation of the extraordinary plan of real estate disposals. On the revenue side, the revision of the VAT safeguard clauses for the years 2020-2021, the establishment of a tax on digital services imposed on persons who, in the exercise of business activities, provide digital services and exceed certain revenue thresholds, the repeal of the tax credit relating to flat-rate deductions in relation to IRAP recognised in favour of taxable persons employing permanent employees in certain regions; and, again, the repeal of the tax credit in favour of persons making investments in new capital goods, the repeal of the reduced IRES rate in favour of non-commercial entities, a package of measures that increases the levy in the field of games through the increase of the single e-rarial levy (PREU) applicable to entertainment and entertainment equipment and the reduction of the minimum pay-out rates. In addition, since 1 January 2019, the single tax on prediction competitions and betting is introduced. In the case of central government, a postponement of the taking-up of employees to 15 November 2019 is envisaged, but limited to the recruitments deriving from the ordinary turnover of the previous year. In addition, account was taken of the estimated higher contribution revenue of EUR 150 million for each of the years 2019, 2020 and 2021 in relation to the share of resources allocated to the allocation of citizenship income and to the recruitment of staff to strengthen the activities of employment centres. Some reductions and reprogramming of expenditure have also been included which do not require changes to Section 1 of the draft budget law. In particular, measures to definance the resources of the fund to promote the development of intangible capital, competitiveness and productivity of €75 million for 2019 and €25 million for 2020 are foreseen in the estimates of expenditure of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. We have also planned a remodulation of the fund's cash availabilities for development and territorial cohesion for measures to overcome socio-economic and territorial imbalances of EUR 800 million for 2019. I would like to make it clear that this reprogramming will involve real spending and will not in any way prejudice the implementation of all the projects already planned and also new ones that can be safely programmed. On this point there is the full commitment - as you know - of the whole Government and my personal responsibility also to intervene in the course of the year in order to recover any supplementary resources which, if necessary, should prove necessary. In the same way, we have programmed a remodulation of the financial resources for 600 million euros for the year 2019 previewing an increase, for each of the years from 2022 to 2024, of 200 million euros of the resources destined to the railway society of the State for the realization of plans previewed. Finally, we have planned a remodulation with a reduction of EUR 850 million for 2019 and a gradual increase for each of the years from 2020 to 2024 of 150 million euros and for the year 2025 of 100 million euros of the national quota for the financing of Community policies. I would like to point out that there is also a full commitment from the Government to these two last items, and I repeat my personal responsibility for all the interventions already planned to be carried out, if necessary, including by means of additional resources. The amount of the balances, thus redefined, is, therefore, equal to 10.254 million in 2019, 12,242 million in 2020 and 15,997 million in 2021. In addition to the amendments identified with the amendments to the draft budget, which will be submitted (I imagine ad horas) to the relevant budget committee, I also represented the need to draw up a plan of extraordinary interventions for the safety of road infrastructure (viaducts, bridges, roads, tunnels) and the management of the risks associated with hydrogeological failure. For these interventions the government has requested and obtained that the flexibility provided for in the Stability and Growth Pact be applied, to an extent - think - corresponding to almost 0.2% of GDP. This extraordinary plan will allow us to protect the safety of citizens more effectively and to put in full safety the territory of our peninsula, carrying out a follow-up of rapid interventions according to a pre-arranged timetable. This plan will be devoted to resources already placed in the budget in previous years, for various investments, and also part of the new resources available by the budget law being approved and by the tax decree-law related to the economic maneuver. [[Comments of Senator Collina]] In 2019 total resources of around 2 billion and 600 million will be used. For the following years, some 3.7 billion in 2020 and over 4 billion and 200 million in 2021 are expected to be spent, between resources already earmarked in the budget and new resources, for a total of 10 billion and 500 million. [[Comments of Senator Marcucci]] Regarding the road network and Italian connections, the collapse of the Morandi bridge in Genoa highlighted the need to undertake an extraordinary maintenance program. In 2019 €1 billion and €100 million will be dedicated to this purpose between new resources and resources already placed in the budget. The effective implementation of the actions will be subject to specific and careful monitoring, in accordance with the same procedures as for the generality of public works and works in particular co-financed by the European Union. Finally, in order to ensure the achievement of the budgetary policy objectives, the Italian Government will submit to Parliament a rule that provides for the temporary provision of part of certain specific appropriations, for the total amount of 2 billion. The amounts set aside will be made available if, in the course of the year, the monitoring of the progress of the accounts shows that it is consistent with the policy objectives. We have always said that our maneuver is rigorous and consequently rigorous will also be monitoring. This, in summary, is the completed and defined picture of the interventions that have led to an improvement in the final balances contained in the draft budget law, from 2.4% to 2.04 of the deficit-GDP ratio for the next year, with an estimate of 1.8% for the year 2020 and 1.5% for the year 2021. Parliament, which is sovereign, will now be able to judge the content of the maneuver [[Comments of Senator Collina]] and, in the medium term, evaluate the effects of the measures taken, their impact on the fabric not only economic and productive, but, if you will allow me, also social of the country. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the PD Group]] We can say in consciousness that we have fully fulfilled the mandate conferred by the citizens, demonstrating determination in the exercise of the prerogatives of economic policy that are the responsibility of the Italian Government, to have pursued with full sense of responsibility a shared solution, good for the Italians and satisfying also for Europe [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] In view of the initially allowed deviation, which is unsuitable for the objectives planned, we have launched an expansive economic maneuver that foreshadowed a far greater deviation. Mr Marcucci (PD). But where? Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. At the end of a tight negotiation, conducted with tenacity and determination with the institutions of the European Union, we reached a point of sustainable equilibrium, attested to a deviation which objectively points to a value which is still higher than the Commission considered appropriate to close the negotiation without risking the initiation of the infringement procedure. The Commission responded this morning by sending, a few minutes before 12 noon (and that is the reason for the request to postpone this information), a communication in which, taking note of the budgetary measures that the Government intends to submit to Parliament, it ensures that the adoption of these measures allows the Commission itself not to recommend the initiation of an excessive deficit procedure. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Ironic applause from Senator Marcucci]] I felt it necessary to intervene in the Senate immediately after the formal submission of the communication and to report to this assembly the information just received. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). Because we asked! BERNINI (FI-BP). We asked for it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you asked, let him speak! [[Comments from the PD Group]] It is not possible to interrupt continuously. LONARDO (FI-BP). He's not telling the truth. Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. Government action can now continue at full rate, without the detrimental effects that an infringement procedure would have for the exercise of the prerogatives of economic policy that legitimately belong to a Government that wants to make a significant change in the political, economic and social life of the country. Mr Laus (PD). We saw the change! Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. We have not betrayed the confidence that the citizens have placed in us. [[Comments from the PD Group]] , nor will we do so until we continue to exercise the responsibility of government. I wish you all a good job and, given the imminence of the festivities, I also wish you a Merry Christmas. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups, whose senators stand up. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u9	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Ludwig Van Beethoven" of Casaluce, in the province of Caserta, and of the Liceo classico "Giovanni Colossimo" of Corigliano Calabro, in the province of Cosenza, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u10	I declare open the discussion on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers. Senator Steger is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u11	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are relieved of the agreement reached with Europe, which we hope will be formalised as soon as possible and we would like to thank you for the tenacity with which you and Minister Tria have carried out this very delicate negotiation. The infringement procedure would have been a deadly blow to keep public accounts and the confidence of investors and savers. However, we cannot forget how it has come to this point, starting with the scene on the balcony of Palazzo Chigi on the evening of September 27. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), FI-BP and PD.]] Already then Italy could have achieved 2%, but a different path has been chosen, which has resulted in the increase in spread, which, as the ABI reminds us, has already had an effect on the real life of people, with an increase in the average rate of new loans and credit for companies. Without the arm wrestling, there would not have been the fact that a branch of Parliament was forced to approve a provisional maneuver and that the Senate, twelve days after the end of the year, has not yet been put in the opportunity to discuss the new measure that will come in the next few hours. This time would have been essential in order to build a maneuver that looked with great conviction to growth and development, a necessity that is as urgent as ever, in front of a macroeconomic horizon that does not leave much hope. For us this remains the most painful point of the whole maneuver. It is true that improvements have been made to the Chamber, but, as the CGIA of Mestre has calculated, it is a maneuver that on the whole subtracts resources from the productive system. The Budget Commission, of which I too am a member, will only have 48 hours to work on the text. We will act responsibly, the same as we have had these days, when we have waited in vain for the Commission to carry out its work. In the few hours available, we will strive to consolidate those parts of the maneuver and text that look to growth and development. We will do so because of the same responsibility that you, Mr Conte, have shown in the negotiations with Europe and that we expect - and we will continue to wait - from all the members of your Executive, thanking the undersecretaries Garavaglia and Castelli for the attention shown in recent days also to political minorities, in the many talks we have had in the 5th Commission in the last few hours. Mr President, it is never too late to act responsibly, especially when the accounts and credibility of an entire country are at stake. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), PD and FI-BP]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u12	Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u13	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to make a premise. We are pleased that the infringement procedure for excessive deficits has been avoided for the time being. We have never been fans of the spread, but we are in favour of protecting the interests of our country and we do not share the sometimes bureaucratic and wrong policies of austerity of the European Commission. We have shown a great sense of responsibility these days, in view of the fact that it was not and was not possible to discuss anything in relation to the most important law for our country. However, the same sense of responsibility, we cannot fail to point out how we came here for a set of serious mistakes that the Government has downloaded on Italy's country and credibility, putting Parliament in a position to vote in the House a law that was not there and not to discuss here in the Senate. Honestly, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I understand your embarrassment at the fact that the Minister of the Interior is making foreign policies in the face of statements that you must pursue. I understand your embarrassment, however, from the people's attorney we would have expected an assault, an exercise of truth. But no: the Government's tireless rhetoric of change, of electoral commitments and of the electoral campaign continues, all in the hands of the Italians. Mr President, if you have been wrong to count on the costs of 100 percent and citizenship income, you have taken on a very serious responsibility because all this cost a billion and a half of interest, and this figure has been paid by Italians, businesses, savers! [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, FI-BP and PD Groups]] Apologize to the Italians. Do you ask him? Or, if it is not so (and not so) then, President, when will you tell the truth? When will you say that you are unable to match propaganda? [[Comments by Senator De Vecchis. Bursium]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u14	Everyone has the right to express what they want.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u15	Go ahead, Senator Errani. Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Sorry, colleagues, I keep saying what I think. I have never interrupted anyone in this House. Calm down and listen because it's serious, I'm listening. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, PD and FI-BP Groups]] Let's move on. The announcements given by the balconies on the budget said: we will not move one millimeter; without 2.4% of deficits we will not correspond to the interests of the citizens and to the commitments made. These are not my words, as you know better than I do, Mr President-in-Office, but the words of your Vice-Presidents. Now do a miracle, an exercise in magic, and it's like everything changes, like it changes the denominator, like it changes the resources, but it doesn't really change anything. Everyone will have everything that has been said. I would advise you, even for a matter of propaganda, to say more: not 4 and a half billion for the income of citizenship but 6,7. [[Applause from the PD Group]] President, the truth is a problem. Truth is a reference value just in the face of what happened on March 4th. Then the boomerang will come and it wouldn't be a big problem if it only came for this majority. The boomerang will arrive on Italy. [[Applause from Senator Biti.]] It takes an exercise in truth. You see, we have listened and will evaluate the draft budget with great seriousness and great commitment, without losing an hour because we do not want the provisional exercise: first of all Italy. However, you missed a great opportunity because what you did last you could do a few weeks ago. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We could accept the reasoning of reducing the deficit, of changing the denominator. All the institutions in the world have told you that 1.5% was an unrealizable goal, all the institutions in the world, and you said no, they didn't understand. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] And now it is said, Mr President, that it is an advantage, that reducing by 1% from 1.5 is an advantage. But do we want to say what we're talking about? We had a good investment plan, which should have been presented, with a 2% deficit and an investment plan of 5, 6, 7 billion for the environment, for safety. On these issues, Mr President, we would have fought with you to put them out of the Stability Pact. [[Applause from the PD Group]] and we would together, like Italy, try to affirm the values of the country. You didn't allow us to, thinking of playing the game of the three cards, but the Italians, President, will understand it and unfortunately we will have to check at that point what the provision of 2 billion and what the safeguard will be in 2020 and 2021. Unfortunately we will see it soon and I fear that it will not be good news for Italians. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, FI-BP and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u17	Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and his collaborator, Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, for avoiding a debt infringement procedure that would have meant delivering Italy to the prison for seven years of the European Troika. Thank you and I note that you are also thanking the two Vice Premier, the two political leaders Di Maio and Salvini, who are next to you to congratulate you. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] The absence weighs much more than false words and false promises announced, repeated and false numbers circulated for months in this Assembly, at Palazzo Chigi and also in official documents. The absences weigh. We have avoided imprisonment, but we are on probation because we are now being monitored by the European institutions for the commitments I have made these days for a non-existent maneuver. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] A nonexistent maneuver, a cheap maneuver; there is nothing in this maneuver. We have already paid a very high price in terms of spreads; 5 billion more next year the cost to the State, in terms of savings, mortgage and credit to companies. A very high price for nothing. Let me explain, Mr President, how you can still define this expansionary manoeuvre if you yourself predict that next year GDP growth will perhaps be one percent. What's the growth rate this year? According to the latest forecasts, it will be equal to one percent. Well, can there be an expansive maneuver without growth? For the measures you speak of (for that measure that made the Vice Premier exult, absent here, that had even announced the end of poverty in Italy, the end of corruption and had announced that he had abolished also the mafia), abolished poverty from the balcony, I remember that in the documents of the 5 Star Movement the citizenship income cost 17 billion. You have told the citizens for years, you have taken the votes on this point, speaking of 17 billion for citizenship income. How low are they? You have increased your destination, forfeiting even the two billion income inclusion (REI). Do you know how much the increase is? Four billion. With the REI money, 2 plus 4, you get to 6. It is not 17 billion, but 6, including the two already given to compensate for poverty; an electoral tip equal to what the Renzi government gave in the election campaign five years ago as a shoe to rip a vote from the voters. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] Same number. You copied the measure in the hope of gabbing voters like Renzi did. This is not the government of change, this is the government that betrayed the voters. In your speech, Mr President-in-Office, you have given us a list of new taxes. Colleagues of the League, when it comes to definancing, when it comes to taxing the pensions of the middle class, that is, those who have worked, produced and paid contributions, when it comes to floating bonuses and tax deductions, we are talking about new taxes for businesses, for families and for citizens, in addition to those already counted in the House's maneuver. There we have calculated 5 billion more taxes for businesses; with what we have to deduct here, from what we have already announced, we are going far beyond that. This is a maneuver that taxes those who produce, who tax those who produced, snooping of their pension who paid the contributions, who tax Italy who works to do what? Only one tenth of the resources are earmarked for investment. Do you know how much you've spent on research, on the future? 64 million euros. Do you know how much you went to college? EUR 54 million. It is a fake, non-existent maneuver, made on the shoulders of the future of the Italians, only to dispense electoral promises. What matters to you is that it is in force for April. Why April? Because the campaign starts. And what do we read in the newspapers? That the two Vice Premier are convinced, not by the numbers, but by the polls: just look at the polls and the election campaign, selling out the country. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please, Senator Urso. Mr Urso (FdI). Prime Minister, you have not abolished poverty, you have not abolished corruption, you have not abolished the Mafia: you have abolished the truth. Make a decree that abolishes the truth. On the other hand, this maneuver, in its absence, for what little it does, taxing those who produce and trying to distribute something to those who do not work - and I say this by measuring the words - is the first communist maneuver in the history of Italy. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups. Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u18	Senator, you have to close, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u19	Mr Urso (FdI). I repeat, it is the first communist maneuver in the history of Italy and, as such, it will end up abolishing the truth. But the truth cannot be abolished: it turns against all and against Italy and the recession that is at the door is anything but expansion, it means sad and unhappy decrease. We have to change: compared to the Caporetto that has profiled, we need to make a Piave line as soon as possible. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] We have to do this because of the need of the country, we have to do it for the future of the country. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u20	Senator Ferrari is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u21	Mr President, every falsehood is a mask and, no matter how well made the mask is, you always get to distinguish it from the face. For the first time, Mr President-in-Office, no matter how hard you try, you are naked here without a mask. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You are here, however, because we forced you to come. We forced her to respect the Italian Parliament, the only place in which the budget law was passed. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Leonardo]] Do you know what day it is, President Conte? Today is December 19: this means that, for two months, Parliament has not seen a single line of the budget law, it has not approved even half an article. Then we rewind the tape of this film, which - alas - will not win any prize. It was September 28 when his vice president Luigi Di Maio looked out from the balcony of Palazzo Chigi, with his face turned upside down, to celebrate the agreement reached on the maneuver at 2.4 percent of GDP. Di Maio called it the "maneuver of the people" that for the first time in the history of this country would eliminate poverty thanks to the income of citizenship (for which there were 10 billion euros). For Salvini, his other vice president, he was the maneuver of change, with taxes decreased to 15 percent for more than one million workers and pension rights for at least 400,000 people. The watchwords were all against Europe. Of Maio, strong in his political arrogance, he even said: The 2.4 is not touched, otherwise we will bring down the Government. Do you, President Conte, remember what happened from the next day? It happened that markets went crazy, that the spread splashed skyrocketing constantly exceeding 300 basis points. Do you remember that, ma'am? So let me ask you a question, perhaps naive: who pays for the damage you have done in those days of pure madness? [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]] Why did you engage an arm wrestling with Europe and delay you with values that you could not afford and knew you could not afford? You wanted to define it as the "maneuver of the people": precise. Never more precise, Mr President: it is precisely the maneuver of the people, because it is the people who are paying as they are today. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Do you dare to tell the Italians that, in the middle of this irresponsible play of yours, there are 50,000 fewer jobs in this country? That we are paying one and a half billion more interest on debt and that the mortgages for businesses and families have increased accordingly? Do you have the courage to say that industrial production has fallen and that Italy tends to decline? So, while all this was happening in these months, you have gone from war to Europe to hat in hand. An incredible thing has happened: by the very strong and fierce Diktats against Europe, you ended up having the maneuver, commas included, written by those you called the technocrats of Brussels. You started a first reading in the House completely false, a text anchored still to 2.4 percent that, from the day after the approval in Montecitorio, became paper rags. Then you came to stammer in the Senate. Brussels had not yet corrected your homework and in the meantime the days passed and you did not know what to say in the face of a delay that he had and that he has incredible. It is literally the first time that the state's most important law has a completely extra-parliamentary nature and is written line by line by the European institution; this is the first time. You wouldn't be sovereign, but you wouldn't back away, Count! [[Applause from the PD Group and the Floris and Giro senators]] It is so true, by chance, that the two Vice Presidents Salvini and Di Maio are not at your side today in this crucial information for the history of this country. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]] And now here we are. Yesterday, our request, of the Democratic Party and of the oppositions, forced you to review your agenda, and to come to this House, to come to Parliament. You know, this place is called the Senate of the Republic, President Conte, and this place is still waiting for the answers you haven't given so far. You have to tell us who pays the billions in smoke for your madness. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]] You have to tell us what cuts you have made to comply with the orders of the European Commission: 10 billion less than you have been campaigning for in recent days. Soon perhaps we will have the honor, finally, to be able to read your maneuver (more than yours, that of Junker). We will talk about it in the next few hours, but nothing can change the Democratic Party's judgment on this very black page of the Government: a drastic judgment, because its, President Conte, I say it with respect, without mask is the face of a tired boxer who did not get knocked down simply because he left the ring; the problem is that he left Italy out of the ring, to escape from that ring. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u22	Finish your surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u23	Mr Ferrari (PD). I'm finishing, ma'am. Everything is forgiving in life, but you are the President of the Council, and the President of the Council of our country will never be able to forgive us for having in just six months compromised the image of a country estimated by the whole world for its humanity. [[Comments from M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups]] , to have isolated Italy in a world that runs, to have mainly made fun of Italians every day, mostly making them poorer. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Giro]] We will not forgive him and Italy will no longer allow it! [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Giro. Senator Ripamonti's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u24	Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u25	Mr President, first of all we would like to thank the President of the Council and the Government for this information. We must say that we have finally faced negotiations with Europe, and this too is an important sign of a change in the times, since we used to follow the decisions of the European Commission too closely in the past. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] The negotiations were intense, it lasted for a long time and it is the testimony that Italy played its game without submitting. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Should I give the speech that Senator Errani gave? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] What gives us the measure of the fact that we did not submit? The fact that the European Commissioners today, during the press conference, said that the infringement procedure was avoided but the solution adopted is not exactly the ideal one for Europe. This is the testimony that the European Union too had to meet the needs of this Government, otherwise they would not have said so. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] Congratulations, President-in-Office of the Council, also congratulations to Mr Tria, because you obviously had to undergo considerable pressure - including external pressure - during this period, because you had to hold firm the principles and the cornerstones of our manoeuvre. You were good at holding on to structural cuts, which could certainly compromise the measures most dear to our Executive (of course I am referring to 100 and citizenship income). Thank you for giving back dignity - and that is what the people today feel, after having followed all these negotiations - to a country accustomed to suffering the choices of the European Union and which today is considered with greater respect. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] Let us remember that we started from 1.6%, then became 1.8%, we reached 2.4 and in the end the right mediation was 2.04. Moreover, we did not misjudge the accounts, gentlemen, because if it is true the said melius abundare quam deficere, when you make the maneuvers, you have to do them with intelligence. [[Comments from the FI-BP Group.]] Also on this we changed: in the forecast of the old maneuver we were talking about a deficit-GDP ratio at 1.6% but then, at the end of the day we verified that this had risen to 2.4: exactly the opposite of what we do! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] But we are serious people: that is the number we tell Europe and that is the number you will find at the end of the day. MIRABELLI (PD). What are you talking about? ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). This is also a sign from the Government of Change. Then don't ask me who pays the damages of this negotiation, with the spread that's gone up and everything. Excuse me, I have noted the famous dialogues with Europe over the last seven years. Then I wonder: who pays for the damage of the Fornero reform? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] Who paid them? Who paid for the damage of austerity policies that eliminated the middle class of our country? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] Who paid for the damage caused by taking on the burden of 600,000 immigrants for the 80 euros? Who pays them and who pays them? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] COLLINA (PD). Shame on you! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). But we could talk about the fiscal compact, we could talk about the increase in taxation, we could talk about the reduction in cuts made to our local authorities. Yes, Senator Errani will remember that. Mr Marcucci (PD). It's about the 49 million! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, terms. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Excuse me, colleagues, you spoke of no such maneuver. We were talking about it yesterday with the five-star group leader. But how non-existent maneuver? There's a maneuver. Have you tabled 2400 amendments as a minority on a maneuver that does not exist? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Laughter.]] We do not offend the intelligence of minorities; we do not. Those who thought we were amateurs on the brink today must rethink. [[Ironic comments from the PD Group.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). You convinced us! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Let us avoid the infringement procedure without giving up our priorities: already and, you know, it is also a good signal to Europe and the markets that all the lies you have told about the fact that we want to get out of Europe are not true. We do not want to leave Europe; we want to change the common rules that will improve our Europe, which is quite different. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] In the same way, you must rethink the role of the President of the Council: how easy irony it has been to him, as if it were a sort of appearance in the Commission. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Well, today we will have to recognize - because this is what the Italian people will do, and you will have to recognize it too - his talents as an excellent mediator and negotiator, for having played a decisive role for our country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u27	Mr President, distinguished senators, I would sincerely have expected from the President-in-Office of the Council less hasty words to acknowledge the attitude of opposition in this House in general and of Forza Italia in particular. We could easily have taken advantage of your obvious moment of difficulty: internal political difficulties of majority, difficulties of government and international relations. We could easily have staged obstructive maneuvers; we would have liked to have occupied this Senate Chamber to protest against the apparent debauchery of Parliament and its functions. Parliament, President Conte, is the people, the people who are so - often - wrongly invoked in this House by the parties that support its government. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In the name of national sovereignty - think a little - we would have liked to occupy this House, because it is clear that the maneuver that this House will have to adopt hastily with a closed box, in the form of a large amendment - even with a vote of confidence - is not the maneuver that you would have wanted to make. It is the maneuver that has been dictated to you in the offices and rooms of the European Commission. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] We did not do this because we are responsible; we did not do it because Italy risked - and I still fear risks - an infringement procedure; which means handing over the keys to the country's economic policy for the next few years to gentlemen living in Brussels rather than Frankfurt. We have not done so - perhaps we should have done so - for the sake of Homeland, the same love of Homeland that obliges us today to ask her questions, President Count. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] Knowing that we have three quarters of negative growth behind us, and knowing that the fourth quarter will reasonably be no different from the three preceding it, why didn't you bother to make an expansionary manoeuvre, with investments that would create growth that would in turn create jobs? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] This is what the country needs, and this is what perhaps would have impressed and impressed the European Commission. No, you don't. Instead, you have made a purely clientele maneuver aimed solely at maximizing the electoral results of the two parties that support this unnatural government in view of the forthcoming European elections. This, President Conte, is a fault that cannot be kept silent in this House; a guilt that I fear will resonate in the streets and squares of the country in the coming months, probably in the coming years. Why then, knowing - from historical experience and political intelligence - that beating punches is not necessary and that isolating oneself in the European context to defend national interest does not bear the desired fruit? We know, you know, you should have known. Tsipras in Greece and the great Hollande in France did not do the interests of their people; they damaged their peoples. Why then when writing the DEF his two vice premieres - strangely absent today - still theorized to break the 3% deficit? Why did they continue to declare war on Europe in the interviews? Why didn't you write a development maneuver? Why did you continue with this attitude of aggression against the European Commission, which seemed to be instrumental, as if to have an objective enemy, an electoral campaign topic? Why did you systematically ignore the financial markets and then end up looking after yourself in Brussels and making you dictate, strictly speaking, the economic policy measures that this House will have to passively vote on? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] President Conte, this is not political. His political inexperience doesn't justify so much over-pochism. I'm afraid you'll pay for this. You sold your political soul to the devil in Brussels, and that is not why you will find a new political identity because anti-Europeanism, so-called sovereignism, was the only glue that held together two parties evidently inclined to draw in opposite directions such as the North League - assuming that "Nord" can still be said - and the Movimento 5 Stars. Now there's no glue, no identity and no future. I think of it as Minister Paolo Savona who I do not believe is a dangerous vassal of Europe, a servant of the so-called strong powers. Paolo Savona tried at the beginning, evidently without success, to violate the European parameters and to break the European Diktats but because of a maneuver that actually created development; having failed, he came to the conclusion that, not being able to change the maneuver, the only thing will be to change the Government. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We at Forza Italia are eagerly waiting for this change, the only change that the country needs, to be consumed. [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups]] . Many congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Patuanelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u28	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I have the feeling that in order to see this Government change, we will have to wait at least four and a half years, because in this instance too, the Government has been strengthened by bringing citizens' interests to the European tables. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I have also heard in today's reasonings about spread, a term that is alienated in this House as if it were a ghost. It has been said that the maneuver has led to an increase and is therefore dangerous. At the end of May it was 300 basis points and this government still did not exist. So, the spread has nothing to do with the economic maneuver that the government has carried out. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I've heard someone ask, "Who's paying for this?" I add to the list of someone else: who pays for the 5 million poor in this country? [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Who pays for the elderly who can't turn on the heat because they don't arrive at the end of the month? [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, who pays for the 12.5 billion sterilization of the VAT increase that we inherited and that was the subject of the first economic intervention that we had to do to prevent there being 12.5 billion VAT increases for all citizens? [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. It's not a rally! Patuanelli (M5S). We will have the opportunity in the next few hours to get into the details of the maneuver, but I want to stress one issue because the recent chronicles of our neighbours - I am referring to what has happened in France - show us that when the demands of citizens, their concerns and their frustrations are not intercepted by politics, then they turn into riots of the square, into difficulties and besieged cities. Instead, the government has brought citizens' demands into the maneuver and government policies. There is no accounting and financial balance that does not take account of the social balance; there is no financial balance, without a social balance that is possible. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I therefore believe that this move shows instead that the budgetary needs and economic needs of a country can be held together. The limitation of growth to one percent is not a question of expansionary maneuvering, as President Conte explained well before. Getting to a 2% deficit-GDP ratio is little important compared to 2.4% if then within the maneuver you do not meet those demands of the citizens towards the policy that allow us to hold together the balance of the budget and the social balance. And this happens within this maneuver, because there is the income of citizenship, there is the overcoming of the Fornero law with the 100 quota, but then there are many other things, in the many amendments that also the majority forces have proposed within the overall draft of the law. There is the question of the reduction of the INAIL tables, which gives a huge signal of reduction in labour costs; there is obviously the flat tax, which will allow 900,000 VAT matches to have a lower tax; there is one and a half billion for the scams by the banks. There are so many things and so many signs that we have put within this maneuver precisely to respond to the demands of the citizens who have wanted this Government and who have great confidence in this Executive and in its work, Mr President. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Once this sitting is over, after hearing your words, we will meet in the Budget Committee and begin an analysis of the detail of the budget maneuver. However, we do so with one more awareness: the awareness that when you said in this House that you were a citizen's lawyer, your words were not just words. You have shown, in these negotiations, that your first objective was to defend the rights of our citizens who have chosen this Government. Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups, whose senators stand up. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u29	I declare closed the debate on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers. (at 14.28 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u32	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, exactly seventy-five years ago, on 19 December 1943, when the most ferocious phase of the Nazi Fascist regime began, representatives of the Valdostan and Piedmontese resistance of the Alpine valleys (Emilio Chanoux, Ernesto Page, Osvaldo Coïsson, Gustavo Malan of the Piedmontese Waldensian valleys, Giorgio Peyronel and Mario Rollier) found themselves underground in Chivasso, in the Province of Turin, with the intention of thinking about the future structure of Italy and Europe. Their work produced a very important document, the Declaration of the representatives of the Alpine valleys (or Declaration or Charter of Chivasso), which recommended the fall of the Nazi-fascist regimes in Europe and proposed the creation of a federal and republican political system on a regional and cantonal basis, in the whole of a new Europe, also a federation of people, built on the respect and enhancement of all cultures and minorities. In this sense, a real Ventotene of the Alps. The sense therefore of remembering today this event in the House of this Senate of the Republic is to emphasize the need to resume the founding values of freedom and respect, the values of the Resistance, which are then the principles of our Republican Constitution, in order to re-enforce a new political action, especially in view of the European electoral appointment and at a time when the principles and values on which political action should be based are evaporated. Therefore, a new drive to enhance the experiences and cultures of all the territories of our continent, as an indispensable element for a new and more robust political action, which is directed towards a real federalism of the peoples. An indispensable condition for guaranteeing dignity, justice, respect and democracy to all human expressions of the territories of our country and of our Europe. May the Charter of Chivasso, therefore, help to shake our consciences, at a historic moment of great uncertainty, violence and iniquity towards a world of peace and justice. [[Applause from Senator Rojc.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u35	CASTIELLO (M5S). Mr President, fellow senators, on 12 November 2018 on the Official Bulletin of the Campania Region there appeared to be a disconcerting measure: the closure of the points of birth of the hospital garrisons of Polla, Sapri and Vallo della Lucania; that is to say the dismemberment of these hospital garrisons that insist in mostly internal areas of the province of Salerno, areas corroded by a phenomenon of depopulation that is causing an irreversible demographic destructuration of these territories. Signer of those measures, the governor of the Campania Region De Luca. The popular reaction has been as incisive as it is widespread and has taken, fortunately, a legal channel, not trespassing in acts of violence and illegality, precisely because the Senate has been close to these populations in the person of the President of the Health and Health Commission, Professor Pierpaolo Sileri. These, unlike Governor De Luca, who never visited those hospital wards, visited inspection, verified the clinical case study, which offered no risk to the babies, to the unborn children and to the newborns, interacted with health directors, discussed with medical and paramedical staff, realized the orographic conditions of those territories, the isolation and the journey times that exposed the babies and the unborn children - they did - at serious risk of health and concluded the visit with a report given to the Minister of Health. Afterwards, Governor De Luca was forced to take back the measures and saved the operational continuity of the hospital garrisons. The most disturbing thing, Mr President, is that the Constitutional Court, in its judgment No 199 of 15 November 2018, censures the Campania Region, in the person of the Governor, for not having achieved the objective of financial consolidation: a complete failure! At the same time, and I am beginning to conclude, on 9 March, the Court of Auditors disputes the lack of expenditure of 1,187 million, 68% of the available resources: a total failure of health care in the Campania Region. I therefore commend Professor Sileri for the work he has done so efficiently, demonstrating the closeness of the Senate to these marginalized populations. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u36	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-74.ana.u37	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday, December 20, at 5 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 14.37 p.m.
