ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.38 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Castaldi, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u4	The next item is: "Communications from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 13 and 14 December 2018 and subsequent discussion" After the speech of the President of the Council of Ministers, the debate will take place, the timing of which has been divided between the Groups for a total of two hours, as established by the Conference of the Leaders. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u5	Mr President, kind senators and kind senators, the next European Council will be the third to which I have participated since I had the honour of presiding over the Government. Traditionally, the December European Council aspires, as the last appointment of the highest representative body of the governments of the European Union in the year, to clear signals and I dare say also to significant decisions on the priority themes of the European agenda. This European Council has a particular political significance, since it takes place five months before the elections for the new European Parliament. The European legislature has thus reached its final stage, which clearly restricts the possibility of translating decisions into a complete process with the current European Parliament and with the current European Commission. The European Council will also address the issue of Brexit, with a debate to 27, following the postponement of the vote of ratification of the withdrawal agreement by the British, which, as you know, was planned for today. After the debate in the House of Commons, the British Government calls for more reassurance that the Irish issue will be resolved within the framework of future relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom and that the reserve solution which, as we know, is provided for in the protocol to the withdrawal agreement, the so-called backstop, agreed by the negotiators of the European Union and the British last November, will not enter into force. We will then discuss this issue during the first day; I had a telephone conversation, after the break in the Chamber of Deputies, with the President of the European Council, Tusk, and we agreed that this will be the first topic we will discuss and therefore we will be better acquainted with the demands of British Prime Minister Theresa May. Let us look deeply at the democratic debate taking place in London, but at the same time, just over three months after the date set for Brexit, we must stress the need for the United Kingdom to leave the European Union in an orderly manner, in the interest of providing certainty and clarity to the many citizens, including many Italians, and to the many companies involved in this process. In a context that still contains elements of uncertainty, we will therefore continue to work with European partners and with the institutions of the Union to prepare ourselves also for the scenario, which is not desirable for us, of withdrawal without agreement. The approaching end of the European legislature also sees a growing influence on the decision-making capacity of the Council of the urgent need to deal with the ever closer political budget that European citizens will mark with their vote which, as you know, is scheduled for the end of May 2019. At the European Council on 13 and 14 December, therefore, due consideration will have to be given to the wider political horizon of a changing Europe in a transitional phase; a Europe of which the United Kingdom will no longer be a member in just over three months' time; a Europe in which citizens' expectations of being able to count on European and national institutions that guarantee greater equity, growth, work and security throughout our continent are increasingly clear and urgent. It is therefore with an approach inspired by the principle of responsibility, both for those who have elected us and for future generations, that we are pursuing the objective of a fairer and safer Europe, and we will work in this direction also in this final of the European legislature. The inevitable priority of working today for a better future for Europe is the main theme of the main issues on the agenda at the next European Council: the European management of migration flows, in implementation of the conclusions of the European Council last June; the impetus for negotiations for a new multiannual European budget (the so-called multiannual financial framework); and the prospects for the reform of economic and monetary union. The Eurosummit debate also includes a consideration which applies to our relationship with Europe with regard to the budget law. We must overcome a short-sighted rigorism which claims to combat instability by measures which, on the contrary, end up favouring it. In advancing banking union and monetary and economic union, Europe must pursue a balanced relationship between reduction and risk sharing. I also consider it essential that Eurosummit can launch a realistic debate over the coming months on the eurozone budget. It is now clear, especially after the financial crisis, that central monetary policy instruments need to be accompanied by an equally centralised fiscal lever, which will mitigate the trends in divergence and the effects of possible asymmetric shocks. The Eurogroup on 4 December unfortunately confirmed, when examining the Franco-German proposal in this respect, the clear distance between Member States. In particular, while there has been a willingness on the one hand to deepen the possibility of establishing a common budget for the purposes of convergence and increased competitiveness, on the other hand there remains a strong contrast of views on the assumption that the common budget should also be given the role of stabilisation. Therefore, the progress of this project must be carefully assessed, giving particular attention to all the profiles and passages that characterize it. With regard to the completion of the banking union, our vision requires that the reduction of risk should finally be accompanied by corresponding mutualisation measures. We understand that a different timing on two aspects is inescapable; we appreciate that a risk-sharing measure is to be introduced, which will be the common backstop for the Single Resolution Fund. However, the new postponement of the decisions on the deposit insurance scheme is for us the signal of a Europe that continues to be influenced by the markets rather than trying to direct them. With regard to the reform of the governance of the European Stability Mechanism, we maintain our reservations about an intergovernmental approach and reiterate that the roles assigned to the European Stability Mechanism must not irreversibly undermine the prerogatives of the European Commission, particularly in the area of tax surveillance. On the subject of migration, the European Council will have to examine the next steps, aimed at finally making concrete progress in the implementation of last June's conclusions. The text of the conclusions indicates that the Council will address the comprehensive approach to migration. Here I would like to reiterate to my fellow Europeans that it is time to finally follow the words of the facts and to give life to a regulation and management of migratory flows that is genuinely European. To be such, it can no longer circumvent the priority challenge of primary movements and the management of rescues at sea. In particular, the burden of managing landings can no longer be borne by the countries of first arrival and European coordination is needed - I have claimed this since the summer - since the landing phase. A mechanism for managing rescues at sea also requires a shared effort and joint actions, precisely in order to adhere to the conclusions of the June European Council, in three key components: firstly, the landing, which must see a shared effort by the Member States, with the coordination, of course, of the European Commission. Secondly, redistribution, on which I will reiterate the inevitable need for Member States (and not only coastal and therefore first-come) to take on a truly shared effort. I cannot accept what some Member States are proposing, namely the limitation of the redistribution of rescues at sea to the single category of persons entitled to international protection; such an option would, moreover, mean an additional burden on the landing countries, making it difficult for the effective European management of landings, rather than simplifying it, as the Member States are almost exclusively concerned about secondary movements. Third, which is also fundamental, concerns the repatriation of rescued persons who are not entitled to international protection. At last, we need to give substance to a Europeanisation of returns, for example through mutual recognition, at least in the Member States that wish to proceed in this direction, of the relevant decisions and through the use of development cooperation as an incentive for better cooperation with third countries. I say this in the perspective of that investment, first of all of political stabilisation and of impulse to growth, which I consider indispensable towards Africa, a continent towards which Italy shows particular attention, as also recently witnessed by my visits to Ethiopia, Eritrea, Algeria and Tunisia. In the same direction goes the Italian and European commitment to the stabilisation and development of the southern shore of the enlarged Mediterranean, region marked by humanitarian crises, recent conflicts, but also land of great opportunities, whose realization in terms of security and prosperity is our common interest to promote. Again with regard to migration, I will remind my fellow Europeans that Italy considers the reform of the Common European Asylum System to be unacceptable, because it is unrealistic in its actual implementation. Without the reform of the Dublin Regulation, approving the legislative instruments of the system already advanced would be a political vulnus to the logic of consensus and would, at the same time, be counterproductive at the technical level, precisely because of the link between the aforementioned instruments and the Dublin Regulation. We also consider it essential that there is finally adequate attention to the external dimension, including in financial terms. The trust fund for Africa urgently deserves substantial refinancing and the multi-annual financial framework negotiation must identify stable and effective instruments and mechanisms of no less scope than the one dedicated to the Eastern Mediterranean route in 2016. This means, in fact, a truly integrated approach to the Mediterranean routes. The reduction of landings in the central Mediterranean is, in fact, a result to be preserved, but not to be overestimated; in fact, we must keep in mind both the dynamics of the communicating vessels - which now sees prevail the route of the western Mediterranean, but tomorrow who knows - both the fragility of the Libyan situation or the complex aspects of the neighbouring countries, which can bring back from one moment to another increases in migratory flow. The Libyan case is unique, moreover, because it proposes to the European Union different actors and interlocutors compared to the protagonists of the routes of the eastern or western Mediterranean. This makes an integrated and balanced approach even more necessary, including on the financing and management of migration. I would also like to focus on the central Mediterranean for another crucial aspect of the European debate on migration: the updating of the mandate of Operation Sophia, which Italy has been demanding since the summer, in order to prevent the landings of migrants, rescued from the ships of the operation, from taking place only in Italy. On this issue too, all the Member States really need to ask themselves whether it is worth endangering an operation of great political value, primarily for the security of the Mediterranean, in order to reiterate a clear closure to an update of the mandate that Italy is asking for in order to finally obtain a shared effort on landings. A session on security and defence is planned at the European Council to examine the European Union's positive progress in this area, including the Common Security and Defence Policy Missions. Well, this debate must be linked to an impetus from the European Council so that the issue of updating the mandate of Operation Sophia can be resolved in a positive and timely manner. As far as the multiannual financial framework is concerned, the European Council envisages a debate on the possible temporal objective of concluding an agreement which traditionally takes a long time and a great deal of political and technical patience. Italy considers that the timing should not be at the expense of the quality of the negotiations. I am saying this because, in the face of the challenges facing Europe and affecting the citizens' confidence in the European institutions, we cannot take shortcuts that lead to a seven-year budget - this, as you know, is its duration - which is inadequate to what is at stake. Europe needs to spend better on new priorities such as migration, security, investment, research and traditional policies such as cohesion and the common agricultural policy. It must also open up to new own resources. European citizens of the next decade need a Europe that has real added value when spending European taxpayers' money. This need, which is now unavoidable, concerns both the aforementioned new priorities and instruments such as cohesion and the common agricultural policy, which guarantee effective socio-economic convergence and support for entrepreneurs in a key sector, especially for Italy and our economies exposed to certain effects of globalisation. Also on the multiannual financial framework I intend to reaffirm these Italian priorities with the pride of a country that is the fifth net contributor and that, as a founding member of the European Union, considers it essential to negotiate up to a modern Europe. In addition to these issues, there will be a discussion on not less important issues, such as the completion of the single market. The conclusions aim at a signal from the European Council to the completion of the single market by the end of the current legislative term. On the Italian side, it is considered essential that this impetus should also be directed towards the support that Europe must give to small and medium-sized enterprises. Disinformation is a complex issue, on which the debate aims for the time being to give a basis for political support to the work that the Commission will launch with an ambitious joint action plan just presented by the Commission itself. We are, therefore, at the beginning of a coordinated European effort, which we believe is necessary precisely because of the complex and plural nature of the problem. Italy intends to be the bearer of a vision according to which the challenge linked to disinformation actions, coming from a multiplicity of subjects, both state and non-state, requires a strategic, multidimensional and wide-ranging approach that also attaches importance to the educational and training processes to strengthen the resilience of our societies to the phenomenon and of course do not neglect the delicate profiles of necessary guarantee of freedom of information, essential foundation of our democracies. Finally, I would like to focus on external relations. On this front, the Council's agenda provides for the periodic information of Chancellor Merkel and President Macron on the state of implementation of the Minsk arrangements with a view to the decision in January on the six-monthly renewal of sectoral sanctions against Russia. Italy intends to be consistent with its approach to the European issue, but at the same time believes that sanctions are not an end in themselves but an instrument aimed at starting the solution of the Ukraine crisis. In this regard, it remains a priority for us, in this phase of increasing tension between Moscow and Kiev, exacerbated in recent days by the frictions of the Azov Sea, to work together with our European partners to promote relaxation and bring back the confrontation to the negotiating table. In the section devoted to external relations, the Council conclusions will also take note of the exchange of views of the leaders on the preparation of the summit between the European Union and the Arab League, scheduled for 24 and 25 February 2019, which in itself represents an important political signal of a Europe called to establish itself as a credible and responsible player in the international chessboard. For this reason and for the great sensitivities at stake, where the aspects of security, development and management of migratory phenomena are not excluded from the geostrategic context, it will be important to pay particular attention to the themes of the meeting and to the possible results, ensuring the right balance between ambitions and followed. Italy intends to propose itself as a privileged interlocutor, also given its geographical proximity to face together the cross-cutting challenges facing the enlarged Mediterranean. The issue of dialogue and consultation of citizens is an important issue and we cannot tackle it with a purely bureaucratic approach. For this reason, the Italian Government has wanted to examine in depth the ways in which it can effectively carry out the issue and has opted for a broader approach, i.e. the consultation launched in recent weeks to raise students' awareness of Europe. Finally, there is the issue of climate change. A reference is foreseen in the conclusions to a long-term EU strategy on climate change to be developed in the coming months on the basis of a proposal from the European Commission. This is a welcome wish for Europe to translate into concrete and sustainable policies. Our line on this issue is very clear, also from the reading of our Government contract: we are for the full realization of the contents of the Paris Agreement. Allow me now, in the margins of the communications on the next European Council, to share with Parliament some considerations with a view to another important step in comparison with the institutions of the European Union. Tomorrow I will go to Brussels to meet again President Juncker and other members of the Commission. Interlocation with the European Union, at this significant stage for the political, economic and social life of our country, is crucial. In these weeks I have never interrupted the channels of dialogue; I have worked to bring the positions closer together and to explain in all fora the coherence of our economic maneuver and its virtuous effects in the medium term on the fabric not only economic, but also social. I certainly do not intend to divert attention to the final budgetary balances which - as is well known - will lead to a deviation from the primary deficit. On the contrary, I have worked and I am continuing to work, even in these hours preceding my trip to Brussels, so that the costs of measures, especially those with the greatest social impact, can be quantified on a timely basis, with appropriate technical reports, and that the concerns of our interlocutors in Brussels are raised more clearly. I have already pointed out several times that in the budget law, which is currently being examined here in the Senate, we will take action, especially following the changes that will be made during the parliamentary process, on investment expenditure, of which I will also present a detailed programme tomorrow. I have also explained to the Commission the reforms that the Government has carried out and those that have begun. I will not go to Brussels with a book of dreams, but I will present a full spectrum of the reform project of this Government and, with the support of a thorough work of inquiry that I have personally and directly coordinated, I will confront on the numbers, in the awareness of being in possession of macroeconomic data to demonstrate that the economic maneuver of the Government has been conceived knowing well the Italian economic reality and has been structured in its contents to meet the specific needs of the Country [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] ,of course within the scope of the rules and public finance constraints resulting from membership of the European Union and membership of the euro system. But neither tomorrow in Brussels, nor even more today in front of Parliament, I can only focus my attention on mere accounting data. With the elections of 4 March, the Italians have made a request - I would say an urgency - to stop the impoverishment and marginalization caused by the long adverse cycle of the economic crisis and by a process of globalization that has penalized large sections of the population. We have seen a progressive exclusion from the benefits of the associated life of an increasing number of citizens, a phenomenon that has called into question social rights that seemed to belong forever to the legal and social heritage of our democratic system. With the government programme we have therefore responsibly identified the concrete measures to reverse this trend decisively. The programme, alongside measures to support businesses and workers, proposes necessary and sustainable social equity measures. It is an urgent response to the different and multiple primary needs of citizens. And if we were forced to proceed with a deviation from the deficit initially planned, we certainly did not do so lightly, but precisely to achieve the goals that the Italians ask with overwhelming urgency. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] I am referring to measures of social equity, welfare, income support, simplification and fiscal pacification, of inclusion especially in favour of the younger generations, who have suffered the most from the years of the crisis, because they have been excluded from the labour market, with consequences not only economic, but which seriously undermine the quality of their existence. This is a move that will make Italy grow, and not only with regard to GDP, but with regard to GDP integrated by fair and sustainable well-being (BES). [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] We built it with a view to development, economic growth, the modernisation of enterprises, technological innovation. We are convinced that all this must be achieved in a sustainable way, preserving, as far as possible, the order of social rights (from education to health) received as a precious legacy by the generations that preceded us. Certainly the rights cost - as Cass Sunstein teaches - but they are costs that democratic societies must bear if they truly believe in the primacy of the human person as value that transcends and surpasses all other interests and that cannot be sacrificed to pursue others, albeit legitimate, objectives. Italy has been the protagonist in the decisive steps in the history of European integration, has always participated in an inclusive and supportive sense in the solution of the political and economic crises that have been experienced by the other Member States. We believe and are an integral part of the European Union. That is why we are trying to make every effort to alleviate the concerns raised by the Commission. We have worked hard to explain our objectives on time, claiming the right to make an expansionary manoeuvre, with expenditure and investments planned to stimulate growth and productivity and to ensure stability not only financial but also social. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] We are in the middle of a close confrontation, which we trust to be fair and equal, in the hope that - as always happens in the negotiations - we can find a point of balance and convergence. I remain confident in the success of the dialogue. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups and Senator Buccarella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u6	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u7	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Liceo Scientifico e Classico (Sunday De Ruggieri) of Massafra, in the province of Taranto, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u8	I declare open the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u9	Mr President, the tyranny of the times, which is understandable in view of the organisation of our work, requires us to reflect in the times of the European Parliament. So, if I may, I would like to start with four evaluations and I would ask you to understand whether these will necessarily be contained and flashed, since there is no other way of expressing them in this House. It is enough to see what happens in France to understand that we are experiencing particularly difficult times in Europe. However, I am personally encouraged by this morning's polls that over the last year European citizens with a vocation or choice for Europe have increased from 49% to 64%. I hope - I am convinced - that this majority will take full account of this collective sentiment. At the same time, I am concerned about the epilogue that is likely to have the Brexit affair, which shows that the choice made in the United Kingdom has been very reckless. Mr President, I hope that in the negotiations on Brexit, which is the first point you have mentioned, there will be the necessary severity, together with flexibility, because the United Kingdom is and will remain historically one of the great European countries, even after the completion of Brexit. My second point concerns the management of migratory flows. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, allow me to say that I fully agree with everything you have said. One small detail remains: I hope that on redistribution its battle will win over the resistance of the countries that part of this majority has chosen as friendly countries at European level. In fact, if the thesis of the Visegrád Group's countries prevailed, we would not make any redistribution. You, rightly, in demanding strict compliance with certain principles, have practically outlined an alternative platform to that of some countries. I'm with her. I'm not with those countries. I'm a patriot and an Italian, and I want his opinions to prevail. I wonder if our Government, in the choice of international allies, has chosen the right countries, because on the choice, for us fundamental, of the management of migratory flows, of the saved at sea and of the redistribution, we have conflicting ideas with the Countries of the Visegrád Group. I also wonder how much longer we will have to wait for the government to reflect and vote here on the Global Compact, because the choice made was wrong. Again, I was in agreement with the views expressed by the Government by President Conte, but I believe that the choice that was made at the end on Diktat by a part of the majority has been ignored. Let me turn to the third point, concerning Russia. I just want to say one thing. I would ask the majority not to speak against sanctions, but then, in the end, to have to sign them. Mr President, you are right: sanctions are not an end, but an instrument. We try to have balance, because I do not believe that even our Russian partners can share much the attitude of those who change orientation from morning to evening, saying that they are against, but then - inevitably - reserve to sign them because they belong to a system of alliances. Finally, I come to the last point, which is what interests me most. Mr President, pursuant to Article 95 of the Constitution the President of the Council of Ministers directs the general policy of the Government and is responsible for it. In recent days, Minister Salvini - I understand that, because we have all made our meetings and, therefore, I do not want to start a controversy about a sentence, precisely from meetings - said that he wants to deal with Europe representing 60 million Italians. For me, the President-in-Office of the Council goes to deal with Europe. This President-in-Office of the Council has opened the dialogue channel. Today is the end of the movie. I hope then, because I am a patriot and an Italian, that we do everything and that the President of the Council, with a mandate that goes beyond the vote of his majority, will go to Brussels not only to illustrate the content of the maneuver, which is in his right-duty to do so, and not only to keep the channels of dialogue open, but also to avoid in any way an infringement procedure that would make our country vulnerable to the aggression of markets, which must place public debt securities on the market. I therefore think that we must be at the side of the President-in-Office of the Council at the moment if he makes the point, which I hope will come from Parliament, of an agreement with the European Union. During this time, we had some confusion. I acknowledge, Mr Conte, that he has always said very serious things. But what good are all the polemics against Juncker, against this and that one? They serve to make a permanent propaganda that harms Italy on the international markets. I ask and believe that Italy - which is a constituent part of the Union because in our genetic code there is Europeanism and Europe - and Europe must come to an agreement, which, moreover, is absolutely useful for us to defend our interests. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD and Senator Galliani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u10	Senator Monti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u11	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I wish you success in both your missions in Brussels: that of participation in the European Council and that of negotiation with the European Commission. Your communications have, as always, been very clear; communications are clear, but not clear is the policy of your Government, in particular on the two issues you have touched on today: the economic maneuver and the European policy of Italy. When Minister Tria, on 28 November, explained in this House the elements of newness in the maneuvering of the previous approach of the Government, I stated that I considered them not as signs of failure to the observations of the European Union or to the pressures of the markets, but on the contrary as a sign of an evolution towards a more mature strategy, even on a maneuver for which my overall opinion remains negative, because it will not benefit either employment or the consolidation of public finances. While you do a job that - as President Casini has just pointed out - goes in the interest of Italy, there is a sort of Penelope scheme for which others destroy daily - I don't know whether day or night, in the case of this - the work it does. These were serious errors in Italy's positioning in Europe and serious errors in the way it relates to it. I have defined a step forward and not a step backwards from the economic point of view the revision of the maneuver. But let us not hide that from the point of view of Italy's European policy, the whole of the first and second half were a political caporetto: in the first half the two Vice-Presidents of the Council competed with statements 'I don't care about Europe, we will not move a millimeter, 'If Brussels will fail us, it means that we are doing the right things' and so on. And then a docile second half: The Government is ready to change the maneuver, the important thing is to avoid the infringement procedure. She has experience by now and knows history; it is precisely these turns that, over the decades and centuries, have built in the vision of foreign powers the image of an Italetta that barks, but does not bite. We must not bark, but bring our negotiating positions with force because an Italy that does so only gives other countries the taste not to take seriously its threats and sometimes the pleasure to put it under. In the light of all this, all we need is for Italy to give a Vice-President of the Council, who in excess of enthusiasm called for him, the mandate to deal with Europe. My final point is that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council - as Senator Casini said once again - have the tools, because the Constitution gives you the way - but I would also say that it imposes them - to direct the general policy of the Government, for which you are responsible. The Ministers, if they were also Vice Presidents of the Council - as the Constitution says - are collectively responsible for the acts of the Council of Ministers and individually for the acts of their Dicasteries. If - for example - a Minister of the Interior, with his own statements, shapes Italy's foreign policy, as it is then perceived in the international press and re-exected in other capitals, it brings not only a vulnus - which I do not know how you tolerate - to the President of the Council, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and sometimes to the Minister for European Affairs, but also a contempt of speech, because the two Chambers are in fact expropriated of the possibility of competing in formulating and monitoring the foreign policy of the Government. I am part of the Senate's Foreign Affairs Committee, where we hear from time to time the diligent expositions of the Minister for Foreign Affairs; but it is clear that he is not the one who makes Italy's foreign policy. I therefore believe that, for a question of functionality, it is precisely necessary to avoid such oscillating developments as to destroy what is built and, even out of respect for Parliament, by force, you make more full use of the law, but also of the duty, which the Constitution gives you to direct the general policy of the Government. [[Applause from Senators Casini and Pittella]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u12	Senator Iwobi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Conte, the next summit of the European Council, now on its way, is an important opportunity to make the wind of change blow, even in Europe. The political majority that supports the Government is compact and really wants a Europe that can approach the real needs of citizens and be at the service of the common good of its citizens. We do not ask for great things, Mr President, but change is first of all a new way of thinking about politics: it is reversing the priorities, in order to put the citizen at the centre. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] This may expose us to criticism, of course, but we will never stop. 16.25 (IWOBI follow). For me, change in Europe means giving more importance to the social budget than to the financial budget and taking note that it is time to make policies that promote economic growth. We must be realistic, Mr President: austerity in Italy has not reduced public debt and has put the fight against poverty in the background [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] , which is an objective pursued by the European Union itself. In this speech, I shall confine myself to presenting to the President-in-Office of the Council certain points which I consider to be fundamental for a real change in Europe, especially for our country. As far as the economic and labour market is concerned, it must first of all be avoided that the tax burden on national taxpayers should be further increased. Increasing VAT can undermine the effectiveness of our reforms, because the increase in taxes slows down consumption and growth. That's what the law of the economy says. We must also strive to combat poverty: it is essential that European funds provide resources to hinder poverty because, if the objective is the common good, we cannot forget the last. It is also necessary to strengthen the COSME programme reserved for the support of small and medium-sized enterprises and to facilitate access to credit. Let us never forget the great effort and immense sacrifices of our small and medium-sized enterprises in the difficult period of the economic crisis. We have a duty to believe that their development is fundamental to the economic growth of the country. Mr President, we must include the revision of the parameters for the granting of funding to small and medium-sized enterprises. Europe, therefore, must propose a revision of the Basel agreements that does not hinder growth through the facilitation of small and medium-sized enterprises, the backbone of our country. Finally, let us not forget young people: youth unemployment is very high, it is a sign of a sick society. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] The future of Europe depends on the future of young people and, in particular, of our country, which has suffered the most: active labour policies and vocational training must be strengthened in order to allow a strategic link between school and business. This is also an important bet for Europe. On the subject of the single market, Mr President, we need a common commitment so that this market benefits citizens and businesses, and not a reduction in employment opportunities or social protection. Healthy competition is what not only looks at the cost of the product, but also protects workers' rights, especially: the single market must not become a downward race, but must promote efficiency and remove inefficiencies for the benefit of citizens and businesses. We need to look at the single market in the awareness of our socio-economic fabric, made up of quality small and medium-sized enterprises that give jobs to millions of Italian citizens. It is precisely for this reason that it is important to support the renewal of their production processes and to prevent them from being crushed by the giants of the market. Another key point is the fight against tax relocation: the principle of free movement of businesses must not condemn workers to precariousness. Every company is a source of life for families and, in the Community market, relocation cannot be allowed to increase profits by saving on labour costs. The cost of labour is made up of rights: and if there are countries where labour rights are lacking, it is there that action is needed to ensure that the market is better and that competition is healthy. Europe needs cohesion strongly: the single market must be strengthened in order to face the inevitable future and imminent challenge from the East of the world, and it must be a competitive model based on rights and respect for human dignity. On the issue of immigration, the fight against trafficking in human beings requires Community action, by means of a directive or regulation, which allows a common strategy to stop both the hullers and all those who have made immigration a business on the skin of so many human beings. It is necessary to promote and strengthen relations with African institutions and to strengthen the exchange of information between Europe and Africa. The socio-economic development of Africa is fundamental to counter illegal immigration and to seek a new stable market. Africa needs no more charity, but international cooperation [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups and Senator De Bertoldi]] to promote its own economic growth. Promoting Africa's development is an investment for the whole world. Mr. Conte, I end my speech by encouraging the Government of Change to continue along this path and always remain on the side of the citizens. That's why we've been elected, and that's why we're here. It is an important path towards the renewal of a Europe that is close to the people, that is of interest to them and works for their security. This is the Europe we want. This is the future of European citizens and that is what Italian citizens are asking for. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u14	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u15	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the European Council meeting in Brussels tomorrow and Thursday is not only the third in which you take part, but it falls at a time of great difficulty for the European Union. Even more so than specific cases, such as Brexit, the situation in France or even the dispute with our country, this impasse situation is now clearly signalled by the impossibility of proceeding along the path of the common European budget and a banking union based on risk sharing. Identical paralysis can be seen in the impossibility of finding a common solution to migratory phenomena. In this connection, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you mentioned the drop in landings. I, however, would like to remind you of the tremendous figures that we should all remember, namely the 721 who died only in June and July and the 1,700 in 2018. These are the results of the impossibility of finding common solutions. All this is a direct consequence of the primacy of national selfishness and partial interests over the common interest of the European Union. To this obtuse prevalence of national and nationalist selfishness our Government - indeed, its Government - has contributed and continues to contribute. It is no coincidence that, today, the countries that most insist on punishing the violation of the rules of rigor by Italy are precisely those politically closest to the Italian Government, that is, the countries declared to be sovereign, that say first the Austrians, first the Hungarians, and thus continuing. The European Union will not correct its enormous limitations on this road, which is the main cause of the situation of difficulties and suffering in the various countries, and which is likely to lead once again to the extreme consequences. The same mistakes and counterproductive strategy have led to an absurd and unheard-of situation in the debate on the budget law. The House of Deputies has discussed and approved with confidence a de facto non-existent maneuver, an empty box, which has now arrived at the Senate examination. It is not possible to understand at this point what will be the elements for which the budget law will be amended and what are and how are designed in the essential details of the key measures. There is therefore a negotiation going on between Italy and the European Union, the outcome of which could, however, have an extraordinary impact on the lives of Italians. Your meeting with Juncker tomorrow should therefore be a decisive joint. The time has now run out, but the content of the negotiation, which has now reached its final stage, Parliament is not aware of it, it is unaware of it. Even today, Mr President, your communication has once again limited itself to providing good slogans for all uses. Trenching behind extreme vagueness, he didn't tell us anything about what would be the object of the tight confrontation he talked about. It has not even indicated in detail what the point of balance and convergence you wish - you do not understand very well with what foundation - to be able to achieve. This situation, which is paradoxical and also dangerous - you are well aware of it - is unfortunately the result of a failed strategy that you have adopted in your relations with the European Union. I do not mean - and you know this perfectly well - that you should have accepted the rules of restraint, but on the contrary, no one has criticized the shortsightedness and danger of austerity, which has made the living conditions of millions of citizens in Italy and Europe intolerable. The problem should have been posed, even with a conflicting attitude, on that level, for a radical revision of the rules of the European Union and the eurozone. On that front Italy could and should have found allies. It should and could have created a front that could have had a profound impact on the structure and errors of the European Union. On the other hand, Italy, Mr President, is now isolated as never before, and is therefore weaker than it has ever been. Italy should have and could have exceeded the agreed deficit, but putting in place a credible development project based on investments aimed at countering the blindness of Maastricht rigorism and fiscal compact. Instead, he preferred to focus on propaganda, on a feigned expansive maneuver that only met the needs of propaganda in the near future in view of the European elections. In the same way, he has adopted warlike, provocative tones, always in the wake of propaganda - as in the last few days and hours - of his Deputy Premier, of which today we continue to pay the price in the negotiations with Europe, to which, after so much roaring, the Government - I am afraid of it - will have to adapt, but on the downside, Mr President, today much more than it could have been a month ago. You have put Italy in a very risky situation on many levels: from the threat of a very heavy infringement procedure to that of a very strong collapse on the banking front. It is not a mystery to anyone that your own politics is one of the alibis put on the field to block those fundamental passages I was talking about before. It is time, however, that you decided to leave the propaganda and to revise the positions, not to comply with the rules of austerity, but to really change them; otherwise, you will succeed not only in dismantling financial stability, but also in creating real damage to the most disadvantaged sections of the population and worsening, rather than improving it, also the framework of social stability. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u16	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u17	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, first of all I believe it is right, on behalf of the Brothers of Italy Group, to tell you that we will be close to you and the Government when, on 13 and 14 December, you meet Junker. We wish you every success, Mr President, and we hope that you will be able to deal with it with sobriety. Brothers of Italy, which the Tricolor has always had in its DNA, in these moments it is with the Government, is close to the Government. We hope, however, that you can go to that meeting with your back straight. We would not like to repeat the ranks of governments of the left, who went to take orders in Europe, as we have seen very well, unfortunately, in recent years (and I am talking about a topic that is dear to me, like the banking one), and then execute them passively. I do not agree - and I agree with the Brothers of Italy Group - with much of the economic manoeuvre that you, Mr President, will have to discuss in Europe; but, although I do not share it, I hope that you will be proud to be an interpreter of it, demonstrating that Italy is not being imposed by anyone on its own policy. I am afraid, however, that you will also hear the sweet words that Mr Casini and Mr Monti have said in his speech that this position is not so clear and coherent. I fear that, looking at foreign policy as well as internal policy, the so-called Government of Change does not really have the courage to be the Government of Change. I regret that, on a subject such as the Global compact, different voices have been heard, dissonant, and that a Government that wants to limit the migration phenomenon, which has had serious repercussions not only on the social level, but also on the economic level, has not firmly expressed a position contrary to the principles inherent in the Global compact and has not, therefore, followed that path that the United States or Australia and even the Viségrad countries have, instead, clearly stated. I would have expected from Italy, from this Government of change, a clearer position on this subject. Coming to the economic aspects, time is short and I limit myself to a few assumptions. Mr President, unfortunately, the maneuver does not include elements of development for our position. When the fundamental aspect of an economic maneuver is assistanceism, when all economic categories, from small to large, to get to professionals, express negativity on this path, then the debt of which Europe blames us can really become a fault. Mr President, given the few minutes I had available, I would like to be positive, even in conclusion: I would like to hope that this majority, as I said today, both in the Finance Committee and in the Budget Committee, will want to review its positions on the maneuver, have the courage of some choices and to give the economic policy of our country a footprint of growth, development and change, and never be supine to the positions of those technocrats who in Brussels have badly governed Europe and badly affected, thanks to those who preceded us, the economic policy of previous governments. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u18	Senator Fantetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to support the wishes expressed to President Conte on his departure for a mission of particular importance. I would remind you that, as well as representing the second manufacturing country in Europe, as well as one of the founding members of the European Union, you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are also representatives of the country which has more citizens scattered across Europe. I refer, in particular, to over 3 million Italian citizens who regularly reside in Europe: there is no other country in the European Union that has these characteristics. You, therefore, will also have a special responsibility to these citizens of ours who live in Europe. Many of these reside in the United Kingdom: over 700,000, from the data of the British authorities, while it is a much underestimated figure that of the Italian authorities (380,000). For those living in England, the hypothesis of no deal, of leaving the European Union of the United Kingdom without agreement, is a real disaster. In this respect, I would urge you to inform the authorities of the British Government of the opportunity to proceed to a second referendum, in order to get out of the impasse they have entered. You have two important appointments. One of these with President Juncker, to whom he will have to present the draft budget law (at least as far as is currently ready to be considered). Therefore, it will have to explain to the European authorities the compatibility between the political constraints that arise to the Government from the programme contract (which are clear to all), the constraints that derive from our membership of the European Union - which we have included in the Constitutional Charter - and the debt constraints that derive from our particular position on the international markets. Already being able to transmit this message of late awareness, but full of the Italian Government that you represent of the compatibility between these three types of different bonds would be a very welcome step forward. The guarantee of the warp of social rights - which you have mentioned with beautiful expression - derives from the compatibility of all three of these constraints. Specifically, the European Council will address a number of technical issues and, above all, the multiannual financial framework (MFF). In this regard, European countries are required, also because of the withdrawal - if any - of the United Kingdom, to increase the resources available. You mentioned Italy as the fifth net contributor. I think we are actually already the third. Once we get out of the UK, we'll be the third net contributor. We only stayed in three countries within the 27 to give more than they receive. This should be borne in mind by the authorities and Eurocrats in Brussels. Germany and France, which are the other two countries that have this characteristic, have returns of various kinds, which we seem to be unable to obtain. In line with the European 2020 Strategy, the headings and allocations between programmes will be changed. We share with the European Commission the increase in funds for research, innovation and the digital agenda (115 billion) and those for young people. Erasmus funds are expected to double to 30 billion. I would remind you that Erasmus has been cited by a survey of EU citizens, together with the UEFA Champions League and low cost airlines, as the three determining factors that have made Europe grow and the feeling that it belongs to the European Union among its citizens. Therefore, the funds for Erasmus will well come, although there are still a few 30 billion. Those for the migration and border management chapter are equally insufficient. We also told the German Commissioner at the hearing, but it seems that we have not been able to break through: 35 billion, including 10 billion for the asylum and migration fund and about 22 billion for integrated border management, are really too few. It would be enough to compare them to about 90 for international cooperation. There is - I think - a lack of knowledge at European level of the importance of the consequences that a porous and diversified management of the external borders causes to the European Union. I am not referring only to human migration, but also to the traffic in goods. Mr President, once shoes or illegal agri-food products from the Far East enter a Dutch, German and Greek port and then move freely within the European market, our producers of quality Made in Italy suffer the consequences. Common borders must be a common problem financed and managed in a common, effective and uniform manner. There is no time to talk about other things, but I want to end with a hint of risk-sharing policy, which you mentioned. The proposal for a Regulation on a European Deposit Insurance Scheme for the establishment of a European Monetary Fund, under which the European Monetary Fund could constitute the common backstop mechanism for the single bank resolution fund and act as a lender of last resort in order to facilitate the orderly resolution of banks in difficulty without recourse to taxpayers' money, unlike what has been done in the past, is in fact an ancient proposal by Mr Tremonti's Forza Italia. We're happy. We are pleased that the time and the Northern European partners are finally right about this. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Fenu.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u20	I greet on behalf of the Assembly the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Scientific and Technical Education in Orvieto, in the province of Terni, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u21	Senator Vono is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u22	Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the next few days' European Council is an appointment to which we must present ourselves prepared, with a view to a reassuring future not only for Italy but above all for the European Union. It is not easy to discuss issues such as those you have outlined; issues of burning topicality, of undisputed interest, but on which misunderstandings could occur that do not allow a real and fruitful dialogue between the parties. So our voice in Europe must be strong, but in particular it must be clear how much we are going to discuss and on which it is clear that we must mediate. At a previous meeting, you, Mr Conte, talking about the multi-annual budget, which contains the key indications of the European budget for the coming years, said that Italy is a net contributor to the Union budget to mean that Italy has obtained smaller allocations than the contributions it pays to the Community budget. All this has been certified by the Court of Auditors in its annual report to Parliament on financial relations with the European Union and the use of Community funds, where it is stated that net contributor is a position in which the country has been in for many years. Precisely because of this, we must insist on Italy's potential for positive growth in Europe: on increasing financial resources in the fields of research, innovation, the training of our young people; migration, internal security and defence, and the environment. We need to better defend agricultural policies and cohesion policies, allowing no more cuts in some of the sectors that are fundamental to our country's economy. In this perspective, we must think of a fairer single market, of the concrete development of the potential of the single market and of its greater integration in order to gain benefits for all European citizens. Adopting the Single Market Strategy means improving the competitiveness of the European economy by creating new opportunities for businesses and consumers. That is why we must work in Europe: to remove all obstacles to the free movement of goods and services; to expand the possibilities of economic growth and employment, also in our country. We must demand proper and effective compliance with the existing rules in order to bring about a harmony between the European requirements and those of the Member States, with targeted policy initiatives which, recognizing to each nation their specific characteristics in relation to certain priority economic sectors, allow the achievement of the well-being of all. For small and medium-sized enterprises, the policies against tax relocation that we want to pursue are targeted and strengthen their competitiveness in Europe, focusing investment towards an innovative, smart and sustainable industrial policy. Again in the area of the single market, we must share at European level the uniform taxation measures for all production activities and not just digital activity and services, the European Union's top priority, with sound regulatory proposals and the search for effective solutions. Mr President, I understand that this is an exceptional effort, but it is a necessary and acceptable effort to avoid new distortions that need to be known and analysed precisely so that they are no longer relevant than they are trying to correct. Another important issue is migration, which requires European cooperation not only to improve the regulation of migration flows, but also to encourage and promote resolute action to combat criminal networks exploiting helpless migrants. The smuggling of migrants has become an increasingly violent form of crime, with real violations of human rights. Therefore, it is necessary to really commit to strengthening cooperation; to share the data in possession of the States in order to optimize them; to increase the positive relations with the Countries of origin and transit; to share the information and the police and judicial cooperation on the traffic of migrants; to promote initiatives and development projects with the aim of combating the traffic of migrants, and finally to insist on the reform of the Dublin Regulation, which still allows the state of first reception to shoulder all the burdens that concern migrants; to collaborate, instead, to renew the existing, with an active involvement of all the European countries. On the external relations front, Mr President, our Government should commit itself to working at European level for external investment, promoting strategic investments also at continental and national level, especially in the field of education and skills, through scholarships and exchange programmes, reinvigorating the business environment, intensifying dialogue for better economic integration and trade exchanges, finding spaces for comparison with the Russian Federation, to avoid the strengthening of fundamental international relations and always guarantee the defence of Europe, maintaining a stable and strong European neighbourhood policy, consolidating the concepts of democracy, human rights, the rule of law, good governance and the principles of market economy and sustainable development. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, sure that you will be able to represent Italy in Europe well, remind Europe that we are one of the founding countries and that in the progress of the Union we have put the hope of a favourable future, not only from the socio-economic point of view, but also and above all of peace and cooperation. Let our partners understand that Italy is Europe and, with this awareness and in the certainty that this is a common feeling, it represents the needs of the Italian people with the moderation that distinguishes it, but with the firmness of those who know that it has the full support of Parliament and the whole State. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u23	Senator Pittella is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u24	Prime Minister, I will say more about Brexit, but I would like to announce a clear position: I think that the negotiations should not be reopened, because it would be a huge danger and a huge risk. Let's not repeat the same mistake that was made with Cameron. On the multiannual budget, I would say that it is even obvious that Italy defends its main interests, that is, resources for the structural funds and the common agricultural policy, but I wonder if that is all we can do or whether we should point the finger on the unresolved problem, namely how the European Union responds to all the challenges it is called upon to face, having a budget of EUR 160 billion per year, which corresponds to 1% of gross national income and the cost of half a cup of coffee per day for every Italian citizen. We say - you are as southern as I am - that it is impossible to make a wedding with dried figs, which are brought back to scale and referring to the European budget, means that we cannot ask ourselves not to touch this or that, to increase the funds for innovation and research - which is absolutely right - and then not to try to do the right thing, that is to do the reform of the Community budget. I ask you to support the proposals on the ground. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The other day a great personality like Piketty, along with many other personalities, offered further proposals in this regard, but we have the proposal of President Monti, who is on the European table, but who is not properly examined. It's all there. We have been talking over the years about eurobonds, carbon tax, financial transaction tax, approved by the European Parliament, which lies in the Council. Mr Conte, when you go to Brussels, can you ask your colleagues why the financial transaction tax, approved by the European Parliament, is not being implemented? It's a big responsibility. Then we all make wonderful speeches saying that we have to clean up the financial markets, but there is one instrument that the European Parliament has approved for years, but that is not being implemented because we do not exceed the number of governments that are willing to do so. Everyone takes on their responsibilities. This debate on the adequacy of the budget is linked to the other major issue, which would be a shame if it were postponed until after the European elections, that is, the economic and financial governance of the euro area. I am referring to the possibility of having a Community budget with a fiscal capacity, i.e. that it is not EUR 160 billion, but EUR 1 trillion, at least four times the current one, and that it is able to finance large-scale tangible and intangible infrastructure, innovation, research, major social issues, but also innovation linked to what will happen in the coming years. In 2019 each of us will have six or seven technological devices; today we have two or three, while in 2019 each of us on average will have seven, that is, there will be an even higher speed of technological progress than there was. I therefore wonder when we will be doing the training appropriate to the workforce which today does not have the skills necessary to be in a labour market that will be profoundly revolutionized by this technological innovation. [[Applause from the PD Group]] These are the big issues that can be addressed at European level if there is an adequate budget and a new governance that includes a European Treasury Minister and a European Treasury with a fiscal capacity. As I come to the conclusion, I would like to address a number of issues very quickly, the first of which concerns migrants and refugees. I appreciate that you have spoken the word "Mediterranean" several times in your speech. I like it, as I like the Africa theme, but all this screams with the fact that there is only a security vision in your government, President Conte. We cannot look at the Mediterranean and Africa only in a safe and non-development and cooperation function for development. [[Applause from the PD Group]] On migrants and refugees, apart from the gravity of that empty chair, which evokes other empty chairs, it is truly painful that Italy was not at the Global compact conference on immigration. However, apart from that, there are two issues if we are to do something and not just talk: firstly, we are to amend the Dublin regulation. Do your Viségrad allies want to do that? Do the others want to do it? Otherwise we make fun of the Italians. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Secondly, if we want to reduce illegal immigration, we open legal channels to economic migration, otherwise they are fooled by Italians. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Finally, I come back to Brexit and the budget law. On the Brexit are dramatic hours: what is happening in the UK should be a lesson for everyone and the word "exit" should be expunged from vocabularies, at least from European ones. Always remember the words of the great Tolstoy, who said that all ideas that have enormous consequences are simple, like this: it is better to stay in the European Union than to get out of it. It's a very simple idea, but let's put it all in our heads, even those who, in some ways and for some time, supported the fallacious idea of Italexit, Brexit or Grexit. On the draft budget law, Mr Conte, you must give us an understanding that will enable us to avoid the risk of the infringement procedure for Italy on debt, which is different and far more serious than the deficit procedure. We want a maneuver that gives us this certainty and is geared towards growth and employment and not already using current expenditure for welfare purposes. [[Applause from the PD Group]] That, in fact, is the truth of the budgetary manoeuvre. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you must not stay with the wax on because your government is divided and because there are, on the one hand, wink and, on the other hand, controversy about the European Union. You must assume your responsibility as President of the Council of Ministers and bring home a result for our country. Finally, let us look around, colleagues and colleagues. France is on its knees, Germany has a great leader - I stress great - who leaves the witness, Sweden is waiting for a government and the countries of the Visegrád Group continue in their disruptive commitment. In addition, there are Trump, Putin and Erdoğan. I don't know if this world gives you any small, tiny sense of concern and fear. To us in the Democratic Party yes and that is also why we want to strengthen consistently and concretely, as President Giorgio Napolitano, our second homeland, has taught us and teaches us: the European homeland. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u25	He is enrolled to speak Senator Bishops. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u26	Mr President, I was listening to the words of my colleague in the Democratic Party, who comes after seven years to tell us what needs to be done. Kind of makes me smile. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Mr President, 12, 13 and 14 December are important dates for our country and for the European Council. There are four points: the long-term budget (2021-2027); the single market; migration; external relations. These four points are really important. What do we ask? Italy pays EUR 12 billion to the European Union. Therefore, the first request is that there should be no further tax pressure on our country's taxpayers. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] So, stop at least as far as our country is concerned. The European budget must address the challenges of the future linked to growth, competitiveness and the management of migration. The management of European funds supporting Member States' welfare policies needs to be strengthened, extended and made more effective and efficient. However, there is not only the economic aspect. It is a Europe that is less and less stepmother and more and more capable of supporting the family and the new generations, the only ones that can guarantee us the future. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Therefore, a thought must go to the family. Support is also needed for the agriculture sector, by ensuring and enhancing the quality of Italian agricultural products, by strengthening programmes and by allocating additional funds for COSME to plan and talk about small and medium-sized enterprises, by helping an entrepreneurial culture at European level. I'm going to move on to the second point. We need to increase our efforts for a single market, but not from the perspective that we are all equal. I would like a European Union that values individual countries, because we are not all the same. By increasing and enhancing differences we can succeed in having a large and important European Union, otherwise we are all the same. As far as migration is concerned, I think our country has really done its part. In fact, there are not only the help to the people who arrive here, to whom we must help trying to integrate them (there is therefore a direct cost), but also a national health system that supports them in times of difficulty. I think the Italian people have done so much. We must demand this effort before the European Union, because - I repeat - Italy has done so with the contributions of all our citizens. This is really important. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Let me now turn to the subject of foreign relations. I am a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Emigration, where we held many hearings, during which I felt that sanctions were useless to Russia. I understand that we must decide together, be united with the European Union and speak with a single voice. We realize, however, that these sanctions today damage small and medium-sized Italian companies. With regard to Africa, the peace and development of the Horn of Africa can ensure better living conditions for local populations, contributing to the stabilisation of international relations. I shall end by saying - and I think very much about this President - that sometimes the no is needed to grow. Like Father and Mother, they say no to help their children, sometimes even Italy has to say some no to make the European Union grow. When it's time to say yes, we say it, and when it's time to say no, we have to say it and have the courage to do it for growth. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Italy with our Government is no longer Italietta, as some colleagues have called it today, but it is Italy. Thank you all and good work. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u27	Senator Pichetto Fratin is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u28	President Conte, in two days you will be going to Brussels and will meet the Heads of State and Government of the European countries, who travel at completely different speeds. It is a few days ago the publication by the Bank of Italy that compares the statistics of public finance of the European Union. I imagine you have read them and noticed what abyssal differences exist between the different countries of the Euro area and the European Union area, including non-euro. We go from countries with a budget deficit of 3.1 percent to others with a surplus of 3.5 percent. The average is around 0.7 deficit. There are countries that have a very high debt-to-GDP ratio; Greece stands at 176%, Italy over 131%, Portugal at 124 percent and, among the smaller countries, Estonia at 7.3 percent. With a European average of 80%. Then there are the figures of the fiscal pressure, which has the record of France with 48.5%, which eloquently explains, more than any sociological analysis, the reason for the revolt of the so-called yellow vests of these days, but also the reason for Ireland's choice as the legal seat of many multinational giants. However, the European average is 41% and the Italian average is similar. These comparisons allow us to say that preaching the no euro or the yes euro is completely indifferent, because the averages, as data, are on par. Italy, however, unfortunately, has all the indicators that stand upwards; a high deficit, a high public debt, a high tax burden still, which, however, stands at more than 41%, above this average. The data we have quoted are also related to the maneuver for the years 2019-2021 presented by the Government. The statistical data of the Bank of Italy are relative to 2017, therefore tend to grow. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, will be able to ask me why I have not reserved the reading of these values for intervention on the budget maneuver and have read them now. You will have to deal with countries that have asked us for homework (the famous Commission recommendations, periodic and often detailed), which in many cases some of them have done, others, like France, have not done and the results are seen. There have been certainly virtuous countries, also because their economy grows at a rate higher than ours and their GDP has risen at a rate higher than ours. And so first of all we must give guarantees in the European Council that we will not throw away the greatest deficit, that does not frighten us as a Group, that we have asked as a country Italy, that this Government has asked to be able to use, but that we will use it to make investments. Unfortunately, we have a 2% share of GDP in investment, one of the lowest rates at European level, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Only if we demonstrate that we are credible and that we are setting in motion measures that serve growth will we be able to demand, discuss and review also those budgetary assumptions drawn up in the multiannual financial framework of the European budget, which certainly does not close the day after tomorrow, but which we will be talking about in order to continue the negotiations. We must succeed, for the part of specific negotiation, as Europe's third net contributor, in bringing more transfers to the common agricultural policy, which are crucial to our food chain, which is one of the driving forces of the country. Just as we must negotiate the transfers of cohesion funds, which our Mezzogiorno - says one in the North - is in great need. In the meantime, of course, the Government's effort and the Italians' effort is to spend well, better and efficiently the funds related to the programming 2014-2021 and the reprogramming that can still be done in these days, however with usefulness in favor of the state budget. You also mentioned another phenomenon, which Italy had to take care of without the support or marginal support of Europe: the migration phenomenon. We associate ourselves with all this; it must not be Italian, but it must be European. Unfortunately, it should be remembered that our country is also a very fragile country from a hydrogeological point of view. Alas, we have all the good, but also all the bad, including earthquakes. The debate should also focus on investment areas for infrastructure. With regard to infrastructure and our credibility - allow me, Mr President - we have the TAV, which is a European work, as is the Brenner tunnel. The first is built towards France and the second towards Austria: it is the dorsal of Corridor 5. Sky, Sunday night, aired a program about what China is doing to Europe. We can be on the European ridge or outside the European ridge. Well, this is the result of a commitment of the past; credibility is also maintained by keeping faith in commitments, because Italy has taken the commitments, it has not taken them this or that Government. This is one of the important points. For subsequent evaluations, try to think about Italy without the highway of the sun and the cost-benefit assessment when this highway was not there. In short, I believe, Mr Conte, that we should not talk about the zero comma, but that it is necessary to provide assurances to the rest of Europe on a virtuous path that Italy must and can carry on, respecting the existing rules, but with the firm will to change them. President Conte, Italy is a founding country of Europe: it has the right and the duty to ask for the reformulation of rules that it shared, that could have been worth ten or twenty years ago and that today, with the unfortunately fragile framework of the European system, must be changed. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u29	Senator Marilotti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u30	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the multiannual budget of the European Union is undoubtedly the most important item under discussion on 13 and 14 December at the European Council. The first point concerns - as has also been mentioned in this House - the small amount of budget funds, which are largely obtained from state transfers. It is a largely insufficient budget to carry forward effective measures of economic growth. However, there are positive actions to support the security and management of migration, as well as the strengthening of those programmes with European added value, for us in Movimento 5 Stars which are very important in particular in the field of research and innovation, climate and environment and in favour of young people. A significant part is devoted to external relations. Great attention must be paid, in my opinion, to the next summit of the League of Arab States scheduled for 24 and 25 February 2019. This is an opportunity to relaunch Euro-Mediterranean policies, all too often and hastily abandoned, taking up the themes and objectives of that 1995 Barcelona Conference for peace and security in the Mediterranean and for closer relations with the countries of the African continent. On the Brexit side, as well as negotiating for a fair solution to this departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union, a parallel negotiation with the United Kingdom by Italy, based on reciprocity, recalling that there are 700,000 Italian citizens resident in the United Kingdom and who need the utmost attention from our Government. On research and innovation, I have already been able to intervene in this House on an important technological infrastructure, the Einstein Telescope, a project for the measurement of gravitational waves with Italian scientists. This is an opportunity not to be missed, but we must move decisively and politically so that other states do not override us. It is essential, Mr President, that the Italian project is officially part of the ESFRI road map, as the best one will be chosen in August 2019. Today Europe appears to be suspended between the preservation of the current set-ups and timid attempts to relaunch a political Europe, which can express a strong position to govern the processes of globalisation. The German vision, that of a confederal Europe, based on budgetary rules managed exclusively in accounting terms, which entrusts to the States the tasks to be carried out at home, cannot be the only way. Europe must evolve in the federal sense, but for this reason it is necessary to rethink critically the principle of subsidiarity, the lintel of European construction, but which is applied asymmetrically. The principle, as is well known, requires that decisions should be taken, as far as possible, at the level closest to the citizens. For years, however, we have been witnessing an emptying of the local powers to the full advantage of the central bureaucracy; and the territories feel suffocated by choices lowered from above that, in fact, block the possibilities of growth. One example is the European Committee of the Regions, a body which should ideally, but not only, represent the institutional structure of the Europe of the peoples but which is totally powerless, condemned to be a basically useless ornament. The national parliaments also have a very marginal role in the construction of Europe, and this despite the protocols annexed to the Lisbon Treaty. We have recently witnessed the rejection by the Commission and the Council of Ministers of the European Union (or most Ministers) of our budget law. They told us to do our homework again. On the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, however, who should decide on the budget of a State? The government representing the Italian people, rather than Brussels, knows what the good of Italy is. We know that being in the eurozone involves constraints and opportunities, but this does not justify phrases such as those of the Austrian Chancellor, who referred to Italy as saying that Austria is not prepared to pay the debts of other states. These statements are completely out of place, because the Italian Government does not at all ask for its debt to be spread among the other nations of the European Union, but the sacrosanct right to decide economic growth policies. When it comes, for example, to considering important problems for the economy and civil growth of a considerable proportion of Europeans, such as those of large and small islands, Europe does not adopt the same formal rigour to check whether the protection of the principle of insularity is being respected. On the one hand, it is pumply stated that EU competition policies ensure that companies compete fairly and on a level playing field in the European internal market. The Treaty of Amsterdam recognises the protection of the least favoured or island regions. The European Union is always ready to intervene and impose strict requirements in areas of interest to the strong countries and continues to ignore the fact that it does not recognise the right to rebalance the regions which it calls disadvantaged. However, we have understood the game: on the one hand, the official documents state the principles mentioned above, on the other hand, the European Union is very stepmothers and makes many burdens and measures. The citizens who reside in the islands, like myself, do not ask for conditions of favor, but for rebalancing: they want to compete on equal terms and this is a right enshrined, as well as in our Constitution, in European standards. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I conclude by saying that Italy, as has been widely recognised, is one of the founding countries of the European Union and it has been too long for our European partners to look at us as a problem and not as a great resource. In recent years we have almost resigned to this condition, maturing a sort of inferiority complex. A great Italian, Antonio Gramsci, said about his Sardinia: I am a Sardinian without psychological complexes. This feeling fits well with the present Italian reality in its relations with the European Union. We must have neither inferiority nor superiority complexes, but we simply want to contribute to the welfare of our European partners as well as Europe. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u31	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I note that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senators Romeo and Patuanelli, No 2, Senator Marcucci and other Senators, No 3, Senator De Petris and other Senators, No 4, Senator Ciriani and other Senators, and No 5, Senator Bernini and other Senators, whose texts are distributed. I call on the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u32	Mr President, I am in favour of the motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senators Romeo and Patuanelli and against all the others.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u33	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u36	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we have tabled motion for a resolution No 3, which contains not only a number of considerations, but also fairly precise commitments on the subject matter and on the agenda of the European Council. In particular, we have not heard - alas - any clear voices concerning both our deliberations on the European budget and our commitments on the non-inclusion of fiscal compact in a structural way within the European rules and budget. We shall, of course, vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by us and abstain on the motion for a resolution No 2, which was first signed by Senator Marcucci. I would also like to stress the conclusion of COP24, which unfortunately has had a very heavy outcome with regard to the oil lords, who have tried to close on the final document. We hope that our country will remind the European Union that we are the leaders of all structural measures to implement the Paris Agreement. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u39	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, I thank the President-in-Office of the Council for being here, but unfortunately I cannot thank him for his speech, not only for what he has said about the agenda for the next European Council, but especially for what he has not said about the main topic for which he will be taking part in the European Council, where he will have extremely important meetings for Italy. 5.35 p.m. (Urso followed). You see, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you came to this House when the European Council at the end of June came, for which you had been very prepared, even with two previous meetings with the President of the French Republic, Macron, first in Paris and then in Rome. And I remember you coming out of that happy and triumphal European Council, saying: "Italy is no longer alone." This said after that European Council: Italy was no longer alone and not only with regard to migrants, because it had perceived a change of paradigm of Europe, a change of pace. Well, Mr President, can you say the same thing today? Italy is no longer alone, as it said six months ago? Can you say today that there has been a change of paradigm and a change of pace in Europe over the past six months? Why is Italy more alone today than six months ago? Why has Europe not changed paradigms? Why - I ask my colleagues in the League - are the European sovereign governments against Italy? Why did Austrian Chancellor Kurz say those words about the Italian economic maneuver? Because the Italian economic maneuver, dear colleagues of the League, is not a sovereignist maneuver, but it is unfortunately a populist, welfare maneuver, that disperses the resources, punishes the enterprises (6.5 billion euros more taxes for the enterprises). Tax pressure increases in 2020 and probably in 2019. Meanwhile, also thanks to the decree-law dignity, 647 more unemployed per day; 27 shops per day closing; 5 billion euros more costs for the spread, according to the Bank of Italy next year; 9 billion euros more costs in 2020. Italy is more alone because it has presented an economic maneuver that we do not even know. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the budgetary session began yesterday in this House in the Senate. On what budget? It is December 11th, in the process of provisional exercise. The House, for the first time in its history, voted on a balance sheet with balances without knowing the measures of the budget, not knowing above all the two main measures you want to bet on. Firstly, the so-called citizenship income: we have read and the Italians have listened to seven different versions of the citizenship income, I believe. What is the true card among the false cards you have presented to us, to Italians and to Europe? When will you tell us, at the budgetary session ended with the maxi final amendment? When will you tell Europe? We have read nine different versions of the law or reform of the Fornero; the last yesterday, according to which it would come into force immediately without penalty for pensions. Which card is true of the nine you announced? The other eight are fake news. What do we have to say today if you do not tell us this at the current budgetary session today, even in view of the dramatic situation? The opening European Council is not one of the many European Councils that discuss the multi-annual budget and migrants. By the way, what reunion agreement have you made these past six months? How many has Europe made of them, which had undertaken to do so? How many? No one. How many expulsions have been made in these six months and what surveillance centres have been created at regional level in Italy (we are not talking about what Europe should do, but what you should have done)? How many? Nobody! You are not fulfilling yourself first, compared to the commitments made in Europe. Well, it is a dramatic situation because we are discussing, for the first time in Europe (and you have to compare yourself), a debt infringement procedure, which we hope will not be implemented (and probably will not be). And, you know, why won't it be realized? Because failing Italy is too serious for Europe too. That's what we've come to? Do we have to appeal that making Italy fail is too great a thing for Europe? Is this the degree of bargaining that you are in a position to implement in relation to a financial maneuver of which we know nothing and in which there is nothing for development and for business? Meanwhile, according to Istat, in the third quarter of this year we are already growing below zero and, if this happens also in the final quarter of the year (and the data on industrial production are dramatic), already in January the recession would be certified: after two consecutive quarters of growth below zero, in fact, there is the recession. Other than growth in gross domestic product to 1.5% when even yesterday the largest statistics spoke of just 0.4%. We could and should have gone to Europe with our heads high, with a sovereignist economic maneuver, as Mr Savona said in this Chamber the first time he intervened and also Minister Tria. Where is Minister Tria, the Minister for Economic Affairs? Who is he treating in Europe? In the square the leader Salvini said he would treat him, it is he who will deal with the good mandates with Europe, and that the next day he received the enterprises; it is he who deals with the enterprises, not the minister Di Maio or her: you have received the unions and the enterprises after six months, six months when you have not listened to them and do not do it even today with the maneuver. Well, I hope it is indeed Salvini who is dealing with Europe. I hope that it is indeed Salvini who is making the measures for companies; it would mean that this Government is finished and that Salvini is the President of the Council: we could also be, with a sovereign programme, focusing on development, on investments in infrastructure, that is, on the things needed to create business and work. With the empty paper-mâché programme, with the false papers you are presenting yourself with in Europe, what can Europe's response be? You condemn not this Government, but Italy and the youngest to an infringement procedure on debt that is a cornerstone for the development of the country and for the younger generations, exactly the opposite of what you tell on social networks and sometimes also in this House. I invite you to take responsibility: if you are responsible, really changing the sense of maneuvering, towards development, infrastructure, investment and work, then we are there. Otherwise, unfortunately, the condemnation not of Europe - of which we care to a certain extent - but of the country that will be in recession, yes, it will be serious and on that you will really have to account to the Italians. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u40	She is present in the gallery - and the Assembly greets her - Mrs Annarita Lo Mastro, the mother of soldier David Tobini, who fell in Afghanistan. [[Live, prolonged applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u43	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, we are addressing President Conte, to whom there is a human understanding, certainly not a political one, for the task ahead of him; a damned complicated task, in the face of the great challenges ahead, in a changing Europe, also in its European institutions. I am thinking of the challenges of economic and monetary union, the European budget and the challenge of Brexit, which prompts all of us to ask ourselves whether Europe can go on like this. We believe that a supranational, original and extraordinary body such as Europe must be cultivated and guarded with the utmost care and not put at risk with irresponsible statements. Then there are the challenges at our borders, the threats that can come from the South and beyond, external relations. Therefore, within this complicated world, you face a challenge to make your wrists tremble, the one to which your two vice-presidents submit in the contradictory statements of these days, which make confrontation with Europe not a lively confrontation, as it is physiological there, carried out also by the previous governments, but a confrontation that can take, if brought to the extreme consequences, dramatic tones. You don't joke about the debt we have accumulated, you don't joke about the savings of Italian families. The 2.4% that you have set as your target in the deficit-to-GDP relationship cannot clearly be compared to that of other European countries because we have one of the highest debts in the world (130 percent of our GDP). Its challenge becomes truly impervious. We would have expected, therefore, an attitude with some collaborative and open message. In the past, governments that realized the difficulty of the challenge tried to send messages to the other opposition forces in order to move forward with a very broad mandate and, instead, here - compared to what already announced by the representative of the government - the green light is given only to the motion for a majority resolution, without any openness. I say this because at the end of the day - I said this before speaking of human understanding - the interest of the country is at heart and, therefore, if Italy makes a bad figure, the whole country makes it, we understood that we are in opposition. I say this because on the part of the European budget we certainly see progress, especially from the point of view of regional policies, where the billions that will be available to our territory, the metropolitan areas of our country increase. So it is not about agriculture; we do not know if there are any margins. Probably when there is mid-term review it will be one of the issues to work on. Italy will have 4 billion euros less and will be problematic from that point of view also respond to the interests of our territories, our operators and those who work in the field of agriculture. I say that because there are positive results, but others to be grasped. Important progress has also been made on the challenges of economic and monetary union, which are within the history of our country. The work done by previous governments comes to maturity. I am thinking of the fund for the resolution of bank crises and the attention to our savers, and I also see timid progress, even on an Italian basis, on the subject of a European budget for the group of countries that are part of the Euro. We need more; we also need a stabilisation mechanism, a deposit insurance and here we need alliances. On the agricultural fund side, for example, an axis with France would be crucial. We need a recovery of positive diplomatic relations, towards France, our historical allies, with a decrease of a confrontation that can certainly be lively but that has exceeded the limits (especially that with Minister Salvini, who has touched on the diplomatic crisis with a country with which we are competing in the theatre of the Mediterranean, in Libya, in different territories and among our economic realities). However, we must also have an element of cooperation within Europe. I turn to the second major issue that you will face in Europe: migration. In this case the budget is very thin because, if we look at the photograph of what happened at the last European Council and at the announcements of a great success that you yourself brought to this House talking about regional platforms to recognize immediately who is an economic migrant and who is a refugee of all this we can no longer find any trace of it. No news of the centers in the member countries that were to serve precisely to distribute and recognize migrants in time. There is no mention of the reform of the Dublin Regulation either. We had previously stated the principle that the redistribution of refugees should be compulsory. Well, this principle has skipped and moved from compulsory redistribution to redistribution on a voluntary basis; therefore, a backwardness from the past. With regard to asylum policies for refugees, the Treaty of the European Union is clear: it is one of those matters that can be decided by a majority. We have agreed that on a sensitive issue such as Dublin we will decide unanimously, so here too a step backwards due to the alliances we have chosen. We decided to ally ourselves and to have a privileged relationship with the countries of Visegrád and this is the result: on what counts, on the main issues the countries of Visegrád turn to the other side, so much so that they were the first - they, together with Austria - to say that they did not accept derogations from European legislation and that in the end the maneuver should have respected the same rules that apply to other European countries. From this point of view, a thorough reflection on the choices you have made with regard to building alliances - which are fundamental in the European game to bring home the results - must be made, and that is why we will obviously vote against the majority resolution. (17.50) (Followed by Mr Alfieri). As far as the Global compact for migration is concerned, we have made a huge impression, Mr President. On September 26, the United Nations Assembly said that it should move forward on the Global compact because it was not a binding instrument, but a framework of positive collaboration between countries that recognized a fundamental point on which we cannot transition, that is, respect for human rights: saving lives and at the same time working together to inflict a severe blow on human traffickers. This is what the Global Compact says and we decided to accept it; it was right. Then, however, the two Vice-Presidents said to bring the debate to Parliament; one of them announced that it was not signing and the debate did not come to Parliament. Yesterday and today all the European democratic countries signed for the Global compact while we are in the company of Orban, Putin and Trump. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is a step backwards for the work we have always done in Europe, where we have been the leading country from this point of view. Compared to Libya, we did not manage to have it for a briefing back from the Palermo Conference, President Conte, but I must stress that it was a failure: there is no document, not a clear position of the main actors. Similarly, the words he said on Russia are not enough: we need a very clear condemnation. We believe that sanctions serve and are an instrument for telling Russia that it cannot do what it wants: Ukraine's territorial integrity is not only about Ukraine, but it is a principle that has to do with all the European countries because if we give in on this front we risk then surrendering to the Balkans, where the idea of the small country led to the only true, great conflict in the European land in the nineties. We cannot joke about these issues; we certainly have to make economic assessments, but we cannot fail to respect our values and the fundamental principles on which Europe and the democratic countries are based. Finally - and I conclude, Mr President - we will also be talking about combating racism and xenophobia. Here, I hope that at least on this front we can all agree and say clear words to support the proposals coming from the European Council; in particular, the request to include the fight against anti-Semitism. I think this would be an important and strong signal, after the last act that we saw yesterday, when the twenty stones of stumbling were removed in Rione Monti. Well, we also need a clear answer at European level, so that, without whether or not, without infancy, without giving rise to episodes of intolerance and racism, how Europe can express a strong and clear position against all racism, against all forms of xenophobia and in a fight without, and without, but against anti-Semitism. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u46	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I remember your first speech in this House, when you stated that you wanted to be the defender of the Italian people, the words that I did not seem obvious. They were not at all, for those who like me for so long had not felt represented and defended by the ruling class of this country, perhaps also for that attitude that we have heard echoing in some speeches of those who preceded me, for this will always show that Italy was ahead on certain agendas, as if to apologize for a inferiority complex that, sincerely, to the proof of the facts, as I will also document, did not seem founded. For the first time I heard a politician express, with sincere words, the desire to defend the interests of the country. I feel guilty, therefore, because I will have to answer these words with a few obvious facts. The first obvious thing, beginning with the end, is that of course I, a majority MEP, will vote in favour of the resolution tabled by the majority. It is obvious, as it is obvious that you have had criticism from your oppositions (let's say so, without diminishing its value: the usual criticism). There are things even more obvious than this, but strangely they are making news these days. It is absolutely obvious, for example, at least to me - I do not want to seem presumptuous - that the profound contradictions of the project as it has been conceived are exploding in the North of the wonderful European family at this time. I am not simply referring to the most colourful and brightest manifestation, that of the yellow vests, which have already bent the Macron Government, the great hope of the progressive European deployments, but I am also referring to a graph that some of you have seen, which overlaps Deutsche Bank's actions with the progress of Lehman Brothers' actions before the well-known events that struck her. The trend is absolutely speculative and overlapping, which does not suggest anything good on the western front, the French one, in social terms and nothing good on the eastern front, the German one, in banking terms. I do not say this for Schadenfreude, which is the word that we Europeans use to indicate the cowardly joy of those who are pleased with the misfortunes that happen to the opponent (a word that is casually a German word). I say this in order to make a different reflection: it is quite clear that the relationship of strength in Europe is changing and therefore you, as defender of the Italian people, should at least in a theoretical way have the path paved. This, however, requires attention. The moment is delicate and I have been particularly impressed and reassured by the fact that you are aware of the sensitivity of the moment and the fact that the EU budget is a document that commits us for seven years and therefore it is very important to reflect on how appropriate it is to assess it in a situation in which frozen political structures in the European institutions are totally detached from those that European society and European voters are expressing almost everywhere. France, in order to get out of the delicate situation in which it finds itself, has announced that it will do the most obvious thing, what must be done when there is a recessive situation: it will make an expansive policy. Parliamentary sources speak of a report of 3.4%, government sources of 3.5%; it was already known that the 3% limit would be violated. I confirm my prediction, expressed in a less august venue than this, a television venue, in front of one of the competent (of those who know everything and therefore have not done much), namely that it could also exceed 4%. In this scenario, we are talking about a -0.2% for our country, which therefore clearly appears as a political bow that is being asked of us. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] A bow that I suppose no one will have any particular will to do, but for a very simple reason: not because it would hurt our country, but because it would hurt Europe, because we would see that pseudo-economic arguments are used as an instrument of pressure and I would say almost of political bullying. We are told, however, that France can afford it because it has little debt. True, Italy has a great debt, which increased during the crisis, although we were governed by the priests of austerity, some of whom also sit in this assembly. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] During the crisis the Italian debt increased by 686 billion euros and I am talking about the increase from 2007 to 2018; in the same period the French debt increased by 1,025 billion euros, that is more than 300 billion more. Moreover, if we want to talk about that expenditure that is painted as out of control, the flow of the Italian Government's total current expenditure in the same period has increased by 95 billion euros (let's say that 95 is close relative of 100); in France the same figure has increased by 299 billion euros, that is, the triple. This means that when we see that our country has a productivity and income that languishes, it is simply for a trivial reason: so far our governments have not had the courage to do what - thank God - the Executive that we as a majority support had the courage to achieve, that is, anticyclical policies. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Moreover, since you have expressed the urgency of a change, it must be said that it should also be a change in the rules, because for those who want to get into the detail of European rules it is important to know that when a mismanaged crisis leaves a scar in the growth of a country, according to European rules that country is condemned to stop growing, for the simple reason that the so-called potential GDP is a measure that does not look at the objective state of the economy but at past history, incorporates all negative shocks. Therefore, it is normal for Europe now that Italy is a country with 11% unemployment and we cannot tolerate this and cannot Let's have it. Mr President, in September, Minister Tria came to present the maneuver and spoke of the importance of social stability, and you too, during the autumn, stressed its importance by saying that it is good to protect the financial stability of that end; financial stability which the European Commission, not exactly benevolent to us for reasons that we do not understand sincerely and that we are embarrassed, has succeeded in showing that it is broken by this maneuver; well, when you first spoke of social stability as well to protect, I saw smiles of circumstance, as if that were an excuse. What's going on in France shows us that you were right. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] and that if in Italy we can avoid such scenarios, it will be because we had a proactive Government in defending this good, in defending the civil coexistence of citizens. Therefore - and I repeat - I shall therefore vote in favour of our motion for a resolution with the Group of the European People's Party. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u47	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Liceo Classico, linguistic, economic and social "Carmine Sylos" in Bitonto, in the province of Bari, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u50	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we sincerely wish you every success. The Forza Italia Group wishes you a successful and effective defence of the Italians' reasons and interests at the next European Council. We hope in particular that it will achieve results with regard to immigration, because some European Council does something that had been sold to us as a great success, but it has not been because it has not changed anything. We hope that it will achieve results on the sanctions against Russia, which cause a great deal of damage to Italy. As far as economic policy is concerned, we have always fought against the government and the opposition, because in the European Union there is an expansionary line that does not penalise countries like Italy, which are burdened with a public debt accumulated in previous decades. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you said that Italy was the protagonist of all the most important choices in the past. This is very true and we would like him to be the protagonist today. Unfortunately, Italy is isolated today. In European and international fora we are faced with numerically bleak results. At the last meeting of the Eurogroup Italy was beaten 18 to 1 (the only point achieved was in Italy and not in some other country that married our thesis). The letter which, since last June, gave rise to requests for procedures against Italy and which then determined the letter of the European Commission for Italy, was even voted by our country at the time. You were already there, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. In that case we even lost 27 to 0, even though we were one of the protagonists. Of course, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, your task is not easy, because of the behaviour of representatives of the majority and also of the Government who are attacking in a heavy and personal way representatives of the European Commission (I do not want to mention what has been said about some of them, precisely in order not to renew this attitude that is so unethical and damaging to Italy). In fact, as she has done and is doing, it is her turn to shake hands, dialogue and seek the benevolence of people who have been personally insulted by representatives of her majority. Again, it's not easy. I see you are now talking to the ministers who sit next to you. I do not know if you are asking for advice on this, but you certainly - I repeat - do not have an easy task. In addition, representatives and also leaders of the majority parties, in a past not so far away, have repeatedly said that it is essential to get out of the European Union and the euro. In view of this, it is certainly not easy to negotiate with the members of the European Union and the euro. Similarly, it is not easy to deal with Heads of State or Government who are personally attacked by representatives of the Government (not by you, who are well-known for your kindness). We also remember the escarpments (in the sense not of slopes, but of blows inflicted with the shoe) on the letters coming from the European Union. After saying that you wouldn't go back a millimeter, you wouldn't give up and pull straight, now you have to treat and pull much less than straight (I don't know if wrong, but at least a little back). On the subject of immigration, it is difficult for other countries to listen to us because we are isolated and in a very particular situation. The geographical location of Itala puts us in very particular situations and different from those of other countries. With regard to sanctions against Russia, I would remind you that unanimity is needed, which means that, having been renewed at the last meetings of the European Council, Italy has also voted in favour. It is not serious to say in Parliament and in all the media that we are against sanctions against Russia and - then - to vote in favour of their renewal. I repeat, it is not very serious and this does not give a clear message. Why are we doing this? I have the impression that the reason is that Europe is asking us to do so. This is an old and highly criticized phrase that is always attributed to opponents, but now (even last week, on cracks and prunings, very earthly topic compared to the highest European systems) we have had the same answer: we vote an absurd norm because Europe asks us to do so. What's changed? In addition to having to follow many of the European indications even when we disagree, compared to the past we have developed bad relations with the leaders of both the European Union and individual states. However, the real point of these days is the maneuver. We would have expected her in this circumstance to speak of times to the present or of what happens tomorrow, not sure that after forty days of budget law in the House and when we are now ten days from when the Senate should close the debate, we still do not know anything. The Budget Commission is discussing, is there and is working laudably, but not having the amendment clearly promised by the Government - I remember that major changes have been announced - on what it is discussing? What are you dealing with the European Union about? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] As for the game for which it was thought that the letters of the European Union were said so to say and that it was not serious, it turned out that they were not serious Italians, who said "we will not change a millimeter." What are you talking about? You ask us for a blank mandate that your majority will give you, but we will not give you a blank mandate. But know that if you can put the interests of Italy above the interests of the individual parties of the majority and the coalition of the government contract, you will have our support. Of course, it does not have an easy task; getting something from the European Union that attacks every day is really a difficult task, but if you did, we would support it, because for Forza Italia the interests of Italians come first, whether we are in the government or we are in opposition. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u53	ANGRISANI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the European Union's Political Commission, I am honoured to speak for the first time in this prestigious House, in the presence of our President-in-Office of the Council. The wise words of President Conte have made us understand that Italy, thanks to the Government of change, is beginning to play a leading role; the role that belongs to it for history, prestige and cultural weight. 18.11 (Angrisani followed). For the first time in so many years we are no longer going to Europe to discuss, begging concessions with the head sprinkled with ash, but with a high head as credible interlocutors able to deal equally with the various issues that appear on the table of political mediation and we do so because we still believe in a Europe expression of democracy, pluralism and respect for differences, which act as a synthesis compared to the decisions of national parliaments. Today we are here to discuss this important resolution; a complex, composite commitment, one of those indispensable steps aimed at building Europe's identity. Within this Community framework, it is necessary to pursue the Digital Single Market Strategy, which will certainly be crucial to stimulate the competitiveness, innovation and sustainability of the national and European economies. According to the European Commission, a fully functioning digital single market could bring up to EUR 415 billion annually to the EU economy and enable it to become a global digital leader. The implementation at European level of policies to combat the tax relocation of companies in non-EU countries, especially with regard to large multinational companies operating in the digital market, is now more necessary than ever to obtain a redistribution of the huge profits made by these international realities and a simultaneous strengthening of aggregate demand. In the field of immigration, it is essential to launch European initiatives to step up the fight against the networks of people traffickers and to further strengthen cooperation with third countries on the investigation, arrest and prosecution of persons involved in trafficking and trafficking in human beings. Priority is also given to the immediate and shared adoption at the level of the Member States of the European Union of a structured European strategy on common immigration policies, with a sharing of responsibilities and a fair distribution of pressure from migratory flows, in particular rescues at sea, ensuring the use of resources as efficiently as possible and developing common rules for the surveillance of external borders, the defence of which must necessarily be shared by the Member States. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this resolution pushes us to an analysis which we cannot remain indifferent to and which intellectual honesty imposes on us. By now all of us, even from diametrically opposed positions, have recently established a widespread awareness that this Europe, as it is, does not work and must be changed with intelligence and sacrifice. The Union that we have known over the past decade has failed the mission it was called upon to achieve, namely to create European citizens and bring them closer to the institutions that represent them. This fact requires a series of interventions to be made on the negotiating table that will guide your mediation with the European Union on our stability manoeuvre. We are sure that, thanks to his great qualities as mediator, he will succeed in the enterprise. Efficient coordination of national fiscal policies to ensure the effectiveness of the common monetary policy is made necessary by the close dependence between the public budget and monetary, banking and financial stability. Only a coherent and effective combination of aggregate supply and demand policy, generating economic multipliers, can prevent the European economy and the common monetary stability itself from stagnating and entering an involutional tunnel from which it will be impossible to get out. A redefinition of European fiscal policy, consistent with that of individual Member States, is therefore essential. The main route is through the completion of political union and the restructuring of the Union's institutional architecture. It must be said that this Government is also assuming the responsibilities deriving from the unholy commitments undertaken by previous governments; but it is certainly not backing down. Today it is imperative that we take decisive action to revive our economies and combat unemployment and the spread of poverty. That is why we in Movimento 5 Stars must insist on dialogue with the Commission. The main route can only be the one indicated by the President of the Republic during his recent visit to Sweden: to dialogue and recover the esprit d'Europe. Italy wants to talk. It is up to others to show that they want to take seriously the future of the European Union, without persevering indefensible and unsustainable positions from every point of view. We wish to express the special community of traditions and sensibilities which belong to the peoples of Europe. We want to enrich Atlantic solidarity by ensuring that Europe is included in it with its own voice, with the characteristics inherent in its own civilization, with its particular needs and attitudes. The view must be placed on Europe after Europe, on the need to bury the ax of war, which national forces can brandish in a self-destructive way, and to create the basis for a new transversal alliance between peoples and classes, in the search for common interests, redesigning the Union's representative bodies and legitimizing their existence. The European Union must reaffirm its identity and must do so now, without further delay, because new challenges await around the corner, starting with biotechnology and artificial intelligence. Europe is called upon to respond to the challenge posed by giants such as China and the United States, including in terms of digital sovereignty, through significant tax reforms aimed at promoting the establishment of new cybernetic poles and curbing brain drain. Who better than Italy could run for a European Silicon Valley? Given that this European Union has not solved all its constituent defects and has not dealt with the critical issues that are vital to its very existence, it does not instill and instill great confidence in its real shareholders, who are the 500 million inhabitants that populate it, why should we be so afraid of change? Why should we think that redesigning new rules based no longer on austerity and restrictive policies, but on support for demand, should lead us to the abyss? Why should we not adopt a different perspective from that which has led us to enter into this dark crisis of identity, from which we do not know how to get out? Social evolution has often passed through a change in pre-constituted socio-economic conditions and pre-established ideological beliefs. Continuing along the road followed so far has produced no improvements; this is the only certain fact. Following this line of thought, logic can only push us to change the path, to follow an alternative one in the direction desired by this Government. We want a different and innovative Europe; we want Europe to return to the hands of its peoples and nations. We want Europe dreamed of by its creators and founders: the Europe of Schuman, Monnet, Altiero Spinelli, Adenauer and De Gasperi; not the Europe of arid normative equations, monetary algorithms and tyrannical hegemony of the troika. That is the Europe we like. It is that Europe that invigorates our souls and gives us hope; that Europe that, once it has turned over, I am sure will launch a new challenge to the world, a challenge of culture, civilization, rights, democracy, well-being and economic solidity. From here we have to start to feel more and better European. For these reasons, on behalf of the entire Movimento 5 Star Group, I can only renew to our President-in-Office our full support and our highest esteem and consideration, proudly declaring our vote in favour. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u54	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senators Romeo and Patuanelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 4, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Bernini and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 5 simultaneously. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u55	The Conference of Leaders remodelled the discussion of the topics foreseen in the current week's calendar, in the light of the anticipation of today's meeting of the Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the European Council of 13 and 14 December 2018. At tomorrow's sessions, from 9.30 a.m. to 8.30 p.m., and on Thursday 13, beginning at 9 a.m. and without closing hours, the draft anti-corruption law will be discussed until its conclusion and, where concluded by the Commission, the ratification of the Lighthouse Convention on Cultural Heritage. At the request of a parliamentary group, tomorrow's sitting will be suspended between 12 noon and 3 p.m. Any session already scheduled for Friday 14 will not take place. In relation to the budgetary session, the deadline for the submission of Commission reports to the Budget Commission is postponed to 7 p.m. on Thursday 12. The other scheduled items remain confirmed. I communicate that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the meetings of Wednesday 12 December concerning the establishment of the bicameral committees simplification, tax registry supervision, regional issues and control of managing bodies - announced to the Assembly at its meeting on 4 December last - will not take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u58	BACTISTONI (FI-BP). Mr President, I rise to point out a serious incident in Rome tonight. I am referring to the fire that developed inside the AMA plant on Salaria. This episode has shown for the umpteenth time that, unfortunately, in Rome citizens do not feel safe outside their homes. The fire, which flared up in the shed used to store treated waste, has brought considerable problems to the whole population of the area. I would like to stress that this incident could have been avoided, partly because we are talking about a plant that was treating 3,000 tons, when we know instead that it could treat 600. All this, among other things, is aggravated by the fact that it lacks a pitch where trucks can make maneuver: therefore there is no transfer square. The fire flared up near a kindergarten, in a quadrant that includes about 40,000 people. The presence of this implant has already caused problems of myasms, sore throat and burning eyes for a long time, but no one had ever given weight to these situations. I would also like to point out that there are agricultural fields near these plants and, although the communication has been sent today not to consume the products of these fields, they should explain to us how we will be able to track these products, which are certainly harmful to health and, above all, the products that were sold before this event. This is a serious matter, because the administration would have to monitor and monitor. I believe that citizens deserve answers. The Roman citizens have already shown their adversity to the municipal administration, partly because the time has ended to blame others. If Mayor Rays turns back, after three years of administration, he can only see Virginia herself. Therefore, this is the time to give concrete answers to the Romans, who had already demonstrated in the streets a month ago the opposition to the administration and the administration had turned deaf to these protests. Now, in the face of these new facts, you can no longer shut your nose. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u61	Parent (PD). Mr President, today, unfortunately, the news is overwhelming, and I would not like to shoot at the Red Cross, but human dignity comes even before health. As my colleague before me said, today a fire broke out at a garbage plant, the TMB Salario. I was there this morning and there was an incredible smell, a black cloud that crossed the sky of Rome. I thank the fire department, the Carabinieri and the other police forces, who have been there with a great sense of duty, as always, to help the population. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the point that we, citizens and citizens - I also live there - have had to pay attention to the weather forecast, to understand where the cloud went and what harmfulness would have created for each of us the smell of the fire. The smell, however, is known, because the inhabitants of that neighborhood have denounced it for years, who feel a smell coming from the plant, because of which they do not have a free life. It is an old plant, which collects undifferentiated. On 11 October I myself, personally, intervened in this House to make myself spokesperson for the demands of the population and for the closure of that plant. On 12 June we had submitted Parliament's question 3-00020 to Minister Costa; on 14 November my colleague Andrea Ferrazzi called for it in the Commission's Ecomafia. And no solutions have been found: that is the problem. We should just apologize to the Roman citizens for this, for not finding solutions. There was a recent investigation by ARPA Lazio that put in black and white what were the problems of that plant. The first citizen of the municipality Giovanni Caudo I have asked for the unity of crisis, already a few months, between Municipality, Region and Ministry. I would not like to make a political polemic, even if it would be easy, because this administration has been governing for two and a half years. But one thing I want to say: it is not up to the senior members of this House to suggest the nature of that fire: it is up to the prosecutor in Rome, who is investigating this. I shall end this speech by stressing that tomorrow it will be seven months from our question and Mr Costa has not come to Parliament to report on this situation. We strongly demand the presence of Minister Costa so that he can report, at this point also on an emergency situation in the city of Rome and to find solutions. We are all representatives of citizens and citizens, some political force likes to say "spoke spokesperson," but Parliament is the place where Minister Costa must report and must, together with us, find solutions to restore a dignified life for the inhabitants of the 3rd Town Hall and for all the inhabitants of the city of Rome. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u64	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask for your attention to be paid to something that this House has dealt with on several occasions: the 49 million-dollar Legist scam against the State. Vicenda that records in the last few hours new, disturbing developments: there are news on the subjection to investigation of the national treasurer of the Lega Giulio Centemero; there are news about searches carried out in studies of accountants tied to the party of the Minister of the Interior. In recent weeks and months there have been two more changes than the last time this House dealt with the 49 million fraud. There has been a condemnation of appeal (now there is only a third degree of judgment) which has confirmed the guilt of Mr Bossi and Mr Belsito with regard to this very serious lack, which has provoked deep concern throughout the public. Finally, the story, which has provoked not slight controversy, of the decision to grant a installment in seventy-six years of the figure of 49 million that the State must have had back and that the party of the Interior Minister Salvini should warn the need to return without delay in order to do an act of justice and perform a duty towards the State and the Italians. We see that many things change; the only thing that does not change, the only novelty that is not recorded is the attitude of the Minister of the Interior, which minimizes, resizes, denies the evidence, tries to put the dust under the carpet. We do not believe that this attitude is acceptable, and we therefore announce that at the first Conference of Leaders where the Democratic Party will be possible, it will demand that the Minister of Justice, Mr Bonafede, come and report to the House on the developments in this matter. It is no longer possible for anyone, let alone for the Minister of Justice to pretend nothing; it is no longer possible for the Minister of Justice, indeed I would say above all for the Minister of Justice, after what we have heard today, namely the statements before the two Leaders of the Movimento 5 Stars Group in the Chamber and the Senate, of Uva and Patuanelli, and then of Vice Prime Minister Di Maio, who said that they are sure that there will be transparency, that they want transparency, that they are certain that the Minister of Interior Salvini will not minimize and will give clarification. The place where clarification must and can best be given is the Senate of the Republic, which has often discussed this issue. Some bad speakers say that the representatives of the Movimento 5 Stars now ask for transparency and they are sure that Salvini will not minimize because I want to turn attention away from the judicial misadventure of the family of vice premier Di Maio to bring it back to the judicial misadventures of the other Vice Premier. We're not interested in retrospect and retrospect. When someone asks for transparency on such serious facts, we always agree. We were the first voice to call for transparency and clarification in Parliament and we have often been ignored. We want the Minister of Justice to come to this House and we are sure that this request, if there is a minimum sense of the State and the institutions, will be accepted, because this is a duty towards the Italian people. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u67	CASELATI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bring to the attention of this House what is happening in Valsusa. In the night between Saturday 8 and Sunday 9 December, about thirty people squatted the cantonal home of Oulx, in order to provide assistance to migrants going to France. From their Facebook page they advertise at the birth of the self-managed shelter against borders, against the Salvini decree and in favor of those who do not have the right piece of paper. They claim that, since Claviere's shelter was closed, migrants' loss and deaths have increased. This is true, but it is not due to lack of assistance, but it is a consequence of the cold season, snow and cold temperatures. We start from the assumption that, even if realized in a benevolent perspective, from their point of view, this location does nothing but increase the potential victims of the mountain and the frost, because it deceives these people to be able to cross the border without too much difficulty, encouraging them, unless the award-winning organization of the shelter also provides the equipment of passeur to facilitate the crossing of the border. In this regard, I stress that the hospitality and accompaniment in France provided by the now closed subchurch of Claviere was paid. 18.35 p.m. (Follow-up). Considering that the occupants, attributable to the social centers, have invaded the premises abusively, forcing locks and violating a private property, taken note, from their words, that this attitude is yet another hostile act towards the State, established that in the past these benefactors made themselves paid by the migrants themselves for the services provided and taking into account that their behavior does nothing but encourage the escape from the centres of irregular migrants, taking them out of the circuits of state assistance and making them lose all rights, leaving them in the prey to illegality, I hope that the eviction of the house cantoniere happens as soon as possible, in order to restore the serenity to Oulx and the tranquility in Valsusa and to guarantee the safety of the migrants themselves, restoring at the same time the legality. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u70	PIARULLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to draw attention to the issue of ice cream which has brought down the entire Apulian olive sector, the engine of all the Italian production of high-quality oil. Specifically, I want to remember the damage that last February-March hit the Apulian territories, determining with the frosts the loss of almost all the olives, resulting in enormous damage for the whole sector. I am very concerned, because in this historical moment Puglia, already affected by xylella, cannot afford such damage. So I ask, beyond any specific responsibility, to intervene in support of the Apulian olive sector, excellence of all Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u73	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak in this House in order to recall - I think it is right and proper - the massacre that took place a few days ago in the nightclub "Lanterna Azzurra" in Corinaldo, in the province of Ancona, which has thrown each of us into the deepest dismay. There are six victims, five minors, one mother, seventy wounded, a really terrible situation. A disappointment that, however, obliges us to take careful and serious reflection. The judiciary is certainly investigating and doing its duty. He will look for those responsible, those who have caused this massacre or who have helped to provoke this massacre, but politics, in my opinion, must be questioned about a society that is overdoing rights and emptied of duties, a society that has put at the door the strongest and deepest values and has severed the links - if we want to find a cultural responsibility - with traditional society. We must also tell ourselves that in Italy the activity of control over the safety of entertainment events, especially in which children participate, is absolutely insufficient. We therefore need more controls and restrictions, especially when there are children and adolescents in the middle. What measures should be taken? It would be appropriate for Parliament and our House to deal with this by means of a joint measure. One should start from the minimum things such as, for example, the obligation to keep CCTV cameras, the obligation to open and close the premises at different times than the fact that minors or persons who are underage are involved and the immediate closure and withdrawal of the license for those who exceed the number of legally permitted entrances. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] A definitive withdrawal should be provided for hosts who sell or surrender under any circumstances to less alcohol, smoking and drugs. In our order there is an article that is not frequented and that does not like anyone and, in particular, the prosecutors of the Italian Republic. It is Article 79 of the decree of the President of the Republic No 309 of 1990. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. It provides for heavy penalties (the imprisonment from three to ten years) and immediate closure and, above all, the obligation to open and close at special times. I think we have a duty and a moral obligation to check that no one speculates on the skin of our boys. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u76	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, I too am speaking on this issue and, unfortunately, on the news of the TMB Salario, the fire, to clarify one thing. This event so important and harmful to the whole city cannot be handed over to political speculation; this cannot be allowed to anyone. This fire damages all Roman citizens and I therefore find it inappropriate to criticize Mayor Virginia Raggi, who is the victim of the Roman citizens of this act. Surely the prosecutor will determine in the following investigations the responsibilities, but it is not a coincidence that in Italy there are at least 300 fires that concern the waste and it is not a coincidence that the waste system - it has been proved - is in the hands of several regions of our country to crime. So what mayor Virginia Rays has done so far is to take apart piece by piece all this criminal system and, if there is anything really unworthy at this time when there should be a concern for health, it is to make political speculations. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Minister Costa has already spoken with ASL and ARPA. There are no emergencies, but it is a concrete fact, for example, that the security decree, in Article 26, has already foreseen what needs to be done in these cases. So far, there had been no legislation to say what needs to be done at these times. Now we have to let the people involved, the authorities and the institutions solve the problem and leave aside the political speculations that neither the citizens nor all those who hope that things will be resolved. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u77	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-70.ana.u78	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 12 December, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.44.
