ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:38 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Montevecchi, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 31 July. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u3	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Senators, on August 2, 1980, an unsatisfied wound was inflicted on our country. At 10.25 a.m. on that Saturday 85 innocent people lost their lives and over 200 men, women and children were injured. If at Bologna station there is still the clock standing forever at that dramatic moment, to remind us how far hatred and horror can go, the institutions have a duty to ensure that time has not passed in vain and not only to prevent the repetition of such foolish gestures, but also to soothe the pain with all that is available. There can be no shadowy areas, starting from the search for all the guilty and all the connivances. This is not, cannot and must not be the occasion for controversy of any kind. Today is the day when we must honor the victims, their stories and their lives and remind ourselves how the country has succeeded, even after that unfortunate day, in raising and rebuilding the reasons for our being together, the values of our national community, the principles underlying our rule of law. Every day we have the duty to cultivate and pass on the memory of what happened, of how terrorism has changed forever the Italian history of the last century and how it has been defeated at all levels. Italy did not give up and was able to find, in the name of freedom and democracy, the strength to build a better and peaceful country. The families of the victims receive the heartfelt condolences of the Senate Assembly of the Republic. I call on all Members to observe one minute's recollection. [[The President and the Assembly observe a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u6	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, yesterday morning an unfortunate incident took place in the Committee on Agriculture during the hearing of the Minister for the Communication of Policy Guidelines, as is usual when a new government is set up. The episode is part of a picture in which too often it happened that there was too little space for questions and interventions, not only of the Groups, but also of the individual senators. We have always worked together to make it possible to carry out this important act of the life of the Commissions, but we complain that too often the spaces have been extremely narrow, to the point that we can speak two, three, sometimes five minutes per Group: which seems really not enough. Yesterday morning, when a colleague asked for two questions that she had asked and to which the Minister did not answer, there was a reaction from the Minister frankly inappropriate to a parliamentary Chamber, even with gestures that wanted to, like to say, invite her to shut up and, if she wanted to ask questions, to ask questions. This, however, is to contradict the spirit of the hearing, which should be a clear statement, without assault by anyone: we want to know from the Ministers, in this case from that Minister, what its policy lines are. I believe that this attitude is not acceptable. Senators and the dignity of the Senate cannot be offended by acts of this kind. In view of the video footage of both the Minister and the President of the Commission, who has, as is his right and duty, recalled those who, on the part of the opposition, also protested with some vigour, I hope that he will also call on the Minister to behave in accordance with a parliamentary Commission. Only the President of the Commission can tell a senator to shut up if it is provided for in the Rules of Procedure, but the Minister certainly cannot say that. I hope that there will be a relationship of greater respect for the senators, the Senate and the Commission, especially at a time when there is talk, as authoritative representatives of a very important political movement, of the abolition of Parliament and of the draw of Members, which is equivalent to the abolition of Parliament. Therefore, we cannot fail to watch over the dignity of these classrooms. Each, including the Government, has the right to express, even vigorously, his own opinions, but each in his own role. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u9	VALLARDI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking in response to Senator Malan's speech. Yesterday I had the honour of chairing the Committee on Agriculture on the occasion of the Minister's report on the policy lines and I must say that I did not see all the seriousness of this. Certainly, the dialectic was a little lit up at that particular moment, but this was also the result of the warmth with which the Minister presented his full-bodied program. In defense of the Minister (even if he absolutely does not need it) I stress that, until today, he has always given ample willingness, not only in these first months of government, but also for the near future. He said, quietly and comprehensively, that every time there is a problem, even on specific issues, he will come to the Commission to explain what the government's policy lines and possible solutions to any problems in the agricultural world are. So, until now there has been great willingness on the part of the Minister and there will also be in the future. As for the facts, I believe that sometimes the political warmth leads us to behave that, perhaps at a certain time, may not be appropriate to the institutional Chamber in which we are located. This means, however, that he really cares about agriculture and about solving the problems involved. I believe - and I address both Senator Malan and Senator Battistoni - that we can calmly resolve the issue of gentlemen here in the Senate Chamber or - if necessary - in the appropriate seats. [[Comments of Senator Parrini]] As far as I am concerned, as President of the Commission, I think it is possible to close the incident here, partly because we must deal with matters which are certainly much more important. The world of agriculture, we know, is in difficulty. We continue to talk about agriculture, which I believe is the most important issue for our farmers and all the citizens. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u12	STEFANO (PD). Mr President, I rise to share with Mr Malan the call for more appropriate behaviour and also to stigmatise the statements made by the President of the Committee on Agriculture and Food Production, which cannot diminish what has happened and is made public by the Senate's audiovisual network. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We are talking about a Minister who, on a visit to Puglia, following a statement from me, was allowed to say, in front of all the mayors, that we are wasting time in this Parliament while he was there to work, giving up his vacation. Therefore, we are talking about a person who, of course, is called upon to be offended by Parliament and by Members of Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Aimi and Cangini]] DE BONIS (M5S). Liar! STEFANO (PD). I believe that this behaviour must be stigmatized and that we must ensure that it does not happen again. In a session in which the Minister is called to give answers on the programmatic lines of his Dicastery, if a senator or senator asks questions, he must answer and not point out with a sign or use words that can be heard, and therefore evaluate in their gravity, through the audiovisual circuit of the Senate. So, Mr President, I would ask you to try to raise awareness, beyond the Augustan heat, of every President of the Commission so that there is a different climate within those fora. In fact, the climate that we are experiencing these days and that I have breathed in some of the sessions of the Agriculture and Food Production Commission is objectively not in line with the Parliamentary Assembly and the commitment we are called upon to make. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u13	He asked the President of the 1st Permanent Commission, Senator Borghesi, to report on the Commission's work on draft law No 717 of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 91 of 25 July 2018, extending the time limits provided for by legislative provisions.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u14	Mr President, I rise to inform the House that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is waiting to receive the opinions of the Budget Commission and, therefore, we must begin work today. I am therefore asking you, if possible, to suspend the work of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u15	Senator Borghesi, how long do you think this is necessary? BORGHESI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I believe that it will take at least all day for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to examine all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u16	In relation to what has been reported by President Borghese, the examination of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 91, which extends deadlines, will begin at 9.30 a.m. tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u19	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, I am the Head of the Democratic Party in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, with deep concern and very dismay - please believe me - I would like to denounce what happened yesterday in my Commission, and, as far as I know, also in the Budget Committee. We were faced with two completely unproductive meetings of the Commission: once there were no eligibility opinions, then the 5th Commission's financial assessment opinions. We're reunited. President Borghese - I give you notice - has done his duty; he has given us the admissibility opinions but, once again, we have found ourselves deprived of the opinions on the financial impact of the measure. I assure you, Mr President, that it has been a very distressing duty to witness the lack of coordination, the disorder of the work, an almost disturbing situation, because we have not been able to express ourselves as we would have liked on the amendments that our Group has tabled. We believe that this phenomenon (late technical reports, lack of answers) is contrary to Parliament's right to deepen measures. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] This is a particularly serious situation, Mr President - let me say this - for other reasons which I would like briefly to explain. The first is that we are faced with the first reading of a very complicated measure, one of the most complicated that Parliament has to deal with, such as a thousand-fold increase. This House, this branch of Parliament, examines it at first reading, and it is likely that it will not have much in-depth discussion in the other branch of our Parliament, because we know that this is the way things are in our system. Since this is the first reading, the compression of the Commission's work is particularly inconvenient and alarms us. I say more: we did not insist that this measure should be embedded in the calendar of this House at this time. It is the majority who have done so, and should do everything possible to ensure that the work in the Commission can be carried out in an orderly manner. Finally, in the last parliamentary term we gave ourselves a regulation which provides - I know that the Leader of the Democratic Party has pointed this out several times in the Conference of Leaders - a biweekly division between the work of the Assembly and those of the Commission. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] What is the reason for compartmentalization? To maximise the contribution that the Commissions can make to legislative production. Faced with the first complex measure adopted by decree-law, then, we are faced with an attempt that goes completely in the opposite direction: we will probably have a greater speed in the work of the Commission than in the work of this House, and that is absolutely not good. It is through it that I point it out to the representatives of all the groups, because this regulation is a point of reference for everyone. Mr President, this assessment which we respectfully express, but with great firmness, is of great strength because we see a will: there is the feeling that in the end these contradictions will be remedied by the arrival of the rapporteur without a vote on the mandate. This would, if it were to happen, be unheard of. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] It would mean that Parliament and its dignity would be blamed for the inability to organize the work and to operate efficiently by the majority and the government. Therefore, we ask you to be vigilant, no matter how much in your power, so that this does not happen. I understand the devotion with which the representatives of the majority listen to speeches on dying democracy and outdated Parliament, but Parliament is still there, and as long as it is there it must be respected. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Even what Senator Malan and the other senators said should be a cause for great concern. I understand Senator Vallardi. He didn't find himself in an easy position, but I'd like to tell him that office defenses are always embarrassing. [[Applause from Senator Malpezzi.]] When they nourish against the evidence they become doubly embarrassing. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u22	PESCO (M5S). Mr President, in this House I represent the Budget Commission and I say that precisely because we do not want to be more or less whistle-blowers, the Commission needs the necessary time to carefully assess the financial scope of all the amendments, the majority and the opposition. That's why we need time. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] As a former Member, I have been involved in the discussion of many budget laws in depth, even though I was a member of the Finance Committee, and I can assure you that our predecessors have made us wait a long time, and we have been patiently waiting. I would therefore kindly ask the oppositions to do everything possible to accept a request for time strictly necessary to assess the financial scope of all the amendments. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u25	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I apologize if I speak with you and the House at this time, but I would also like to give some motivation and responsibility for what is happening. As far as I am concerned, this distortion of the Rules of Procedure, which called on the Budget Committee to express its opinion on all the amendments tabled, is precisely a distortion which does not apply to the House. It seems incredible, in fact, that the Budget Commission should check the coverage of amendments that will certainly be rejected and will never be brought to this House. The evaluation by the Budget Commission should be limited to the amendments approved by the Commission and not extend to all those submitted. This has been corrected by a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure, which provided that the Budget Committee would only express its views on the amendments adopted in the Commission and those brought to the House. Is anyone responsible for the fact that this change has not been introduced? Yes, and it is precisely the political group that today raises problems, that is, the Democratic Party. [[Live applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] Thanks to the submission of an amendment by Senator Tonini, then President of the Budget Committee, that amendment was made, which is why we are in this state of the art. I should like to add, and I conclude, that we are here to talk about preventing the Budget Commission from meeting, and therefore we are responsible for our evil. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations. Lively protests from the PD Group.]] MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, he should guarantee the House! [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] VOICES FROM GROUP-SP-PSd'Az. Get to work! You have to go to work! [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u28	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I would like to point out to some of my colleagues who invite us to go to work that they too take a good salary just to be here to work. This is your job! [[Applause from the PD Group]] Your job is to prepare parliamentary acts as they are to be prepared. We are talking about a very serious situation, Mr President. I believe that some Members should not be allowed to reconstruct history, including that of the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, which, depending on the moment and on the alternate stages, takes credit for it or not. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Indeed, if President Calderoli is responsible for this regulation, he has said so recently in this House, he is also responsible for what is happening today. All the majority are responsible for what is happening today. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is not appropriate to say that today, when we debate in Parliament, we prevent the Commission from working. Allow me to say, Mr President, it is you who must prevent this. You can't think of sending this kind of message. When Parliament meets and discusses important issues, it highlights the inability of this Government and this majority to prepare acts [[Applause from the PD Group]] , puts the Commissions in trouble. Authentic colleagues, the Commissions have been stopped for hours, for days, simply because they are unable to properly prepare parliamentary acts. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I believe that the majority only have one way to deal with the situation: on the one hand, they start working seriously on the measures they present in the Chamber and the country, and on the other, they simply apologize to us and to the whole country for the tremendous spectacle of inability. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] , of ignorance, improvisation and superficiality that the League and the Movimento 5 Stars are giving to Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group. Protests from L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Come to the Commission. Show yourself in the Commission once in a while! [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u29	No, Senator. If you have to protest, get out of the Chamber. He was protesting and went out. [[Protests from the PD Group.]] I'm sorry, but I don't understand what you're saying, because you're screaming. It seems to me that your group leader, Senator Marcucci, has expressed his disagreement. Mr Laus (PD). Before the threat! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. This is Parliament. Everyone expresses their opinion... [[Protests of Senators Malpezzi and Valente.]] Mr Verducci (PD). It was a threat. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. ...and it seems to me that everyone has done it this morning. It seems to me that there is no need for further controversy. Everyone made their own observations. We have done so, and this is exactly where we can do it. STEFANO (PD). Every time they do what they want. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Before we suspend the work, I would like to congratulate Senator Casini most warmly, who was elected President of the Italian Group of the Interparliamentary Union. President Casini, my best wishes. [[Applause]] CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Thank you, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I therefore suspend the sitting, which will resume at 3 p.m. with the question time. (The sitting was suspended at 10.08 a.m. and resumed at 3.05 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u30	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time), under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Economic Development and Labour and Social Policy, the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry and Tourism Policy and the Minister for Justice will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Unterberger has the right to explain question 3-00155 on measures to support women's employment for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u31	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Italy is the penultimate in Europe in the employment rate of women, with a difference between the male employment rate and the female employment rate of almost 20%. The dramatic situation in Italy has worsened further by the fact that, while in other European countries some forms of labour flexibility (such as part-time work) help to avoid an increase in the unemployment rate, in Italy, access to part-time work is very limited, there being no legal guarantee that favours women with young children, resulting in a forced choice of dismissal. In addition, Italy is also struggling with the number of women graduating and the number of children per woman, with rates well below the European average. It is increasingly difficult for women to reconcile work and maternity, resulting in a natural fall in the birth rate. It would therefore be necessary to remove all obstacles that discourage women from looking for work, by distributing family engagement between men and women in a fairer way. Unfortunately, women are mentioned in the government contract as the only persons responsible for reconciling the time to devote to the family and to work. Finally, many of the measures introduced by previous governments in support of mothers are running out. If it is not renewed, the so-called baby sitter voucher will disappear for women who decide to return to work, as well as compulsory paternity leave, also due to expire at the end of 2018. The honourable Member asks whether the Minister is aware of the problem and what measures he intends to take to reduce the gap with other European countries, enhancing women's talent, promoting high training and introducing new and appropriate measures to support working mothers or, at least, whether he intends to ensure the refinancing of measures already introduced by previous governments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Economic Development and Labour and Social Policy, Mr Di Maio, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u32	Mr President, Senators and Senators, we are aware that Italy is at the last places in Europe compared to female employment rates, with a very strong gender gap and a differential between males and females in terms of employment of 19% on average throughout the country. At regional level there are many variations and you range from a minimum value of 10 percentage points difference in Valle D'Aosta to a maximum value of 25 percentage points in Sicily. The first mission of this Government is to recognize adequate protection for the weakest workers, overcoming forms of precariousness and discrimination. Unfortunately, women still represent a particularly vulnerable group when entering and staying in the world of work. In view of the forthcoming budget law, we are considering a framework for action to ensure effective and lasting responses. We are considering a rationalisation and stabilisation of the financial support measures for the birth rate currently planned. We want to invest in Italian families and make them feel the closeness of the State at any time they need it. In particular, we are considering the possibility of introducing a strong measure, of total coverage of the cost for kindergartens, in order to facilitate family-work reconciliation. The burden will also be covered by Community resources from the European Social Fund, as well as by a reorganization of various contributions which are currently fragmented. Finally, since there is a strong link between low employment rates and low education rates, we want to intervene in the medium term on programmes targeted at women, young mothers and women with low education rates. Only 25 percent of women with a secondary school license work, while 75 percent of women with a degree work. We will therefore act on targeted programmes and on increasing skills. The introduction of the citizenship income instrument is also in this direction. [[Applause from the M5S and L-Sp-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u33	Senator Unterberger may speak in response for two minutes. But I have a prayer, ladies and gentlemen: we do not take photos with mobile phones in this House. It's strictly forbidden, I wish I didn't have to say more.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u34	Dear Minister, I take note of your reply and hope that this issue will finally find the attention it deserves. I think it is a great problem for Italy to have a potential of women who cannot work because there are no measures that allow reconciliation between work and family. Unfortunately, as I always say, in your government contract we talk about women in the chapter of family measures and when we talk about family measures we talk only about women's tasks. In the future, men should also take part in these unpaid tasks. [[Applause from Senator Malpezzi.]] Moreover, since so many other countries in the North of Europe have a very high rate of female employment and also a very high birth rate, we should simply observe what measures they have taken to achieve this result and perhaps copy some of them; I think, for example, a paternity leave that is worth a month, and only for fathers, with an 80% pay. ( [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u35	Senator Urso has the right to explain question 3-00150 on the pension treatment of trade unionists for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u36	Minister, you have been very committed and, above all, you have expressed a great deal in these first months of government - and also in your previous political commitment - to the fight against so-called privileges, which is certainly acceptable, especially in view of what emerges from the statistics - as happened yesterday - for example Svimez, the Mezzogiorno, or Istat, about the increasing increase in poverty in Italy and the inequalities between rich and poor and between rich and poor regions. However, we have seen it strangely silent on one of the fronts that most affect public opinion and workers, namely the so-called privileges of some trade unionists. On the same website of the INPS - easily visible to any worker who wants to find out - it is written that trade unionists have some different contributory rules from other workers, because they can also be paid contributions - or even salary - from third parties compared to the union at which they actually lend their work and because, before they retire, they can get paid by trade union organizations increases in their pensions on very advantageous conditions. Trade unionists play an absolutely necessary role in our country. Precisely for this reason, since it is a necessary function that also responds to the ethical vocation to protect and represent workers, they should have, like anyone else, political, social and trade union representation, a behavior that is not scandalous, such as that which appeared to many by reading this same website. Mr Minister, we ask you whether you intend to put an end to these privileges. They certainly also concern the figurative contributions, like other categories; they concern the detachment of trade unions, especially when it is made by public bodies - which are many and too many and, above all, Legislative Decree No. 564 of 1996, issued on the proposal of the then Minister Treu, which allows trade unionists to increase their pay in recent months in order to inflate their pensions. That is why we ask you if you will respond to the requests of the President of the INPS who says that you only need your immunity to remove this privilege, what is the number of trade unionists who benefit from it to date and, moreover, whether you intend to recalculate pensions also... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Minister for Economic Development and Labour and Social Policy, Mr Di Maio, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u37	Mr President, I would like to thank the Senator. First of all, I would like to stress in this House that this Government, as provided for in the Government contract, wants to put an end to all privileges, vitality, blue cars and privilege pensions. Everything that is privileged must be eliminated because it is time for it to be restored that all citizens are equal and must be treated in the same way. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] This also applies to trade union privileges, on which we will clearly intervene. We are already working, in collaboration with the INPS, to eliminate the so-called gold pensions and I say to you that nothing prevents, according to this Ministry, from putting hand to the pension of the trade unionists. The peculiarity of the social security system for trade unionists allows them to have a privilege pension by increasing the pension pay in the last years of service. The payment of the additional contribution produces, in fact, an increase in the pension shares still calculated with the pay system, as they are linked to the salary of the last years of service. Moreover, there is a considerable difference in treatment between trade unionists who are civil servants or members of the exclusive funds of compulsory general insurance and trade unionists who are not. We will take decisive action to prevent these privileges from being maintained. Anomalous and substantial increases in the wages of trade unionists are not acceptable in such a short period of time, without at the same time there being any change in the positions of trade union leadership conferred because this entails disproportionate privileges in terms of pension benefits to the detriment of public finances and citizens' taxes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u38	I give the floor to Senator Urso to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u39	Mr Minister, we are pleased that we have given you this opportunity to finally express your views on this subject in a public forum. We are satisfied because it has made an official commitment to give the President of the INPS no objection in order to eliminate immediately the most scandalous privilege: that of trade unionists who see artificially increased pay in the last months of the mandate to build gold pensions. Pensions that are scandalous because we are talking about who must defend workers' rights. We wait for you, ready to judge you positively with a statement, when you sign the clearance. It's been two months of government. I understand that time has been devoted to other things. We are waiting for the next few days to get the news and we are asking for it at the same time, but we will also do so at another time, if, as Minister for Economic Development, we want to continue the measure, which has not been proposed by the previous Minister, on the ceiling of the salaries of the public managers, who in the meantime, in the absence of his measure, have in some cases tripled, with salaries that have also reached the million euros. We also await you on this privilege that violates a government directive. [[Applause from the FdI and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u40	Senator Floris has the right to explain the question 3-00157 on the introduction of citizenship income, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u41	Mr President, Minister, if there is one thing in the Rules of Procedure that we should have changed in the last parliamentary term, it is precisely the question time, which does not give time to explain the question and of course not even the subsequent answer. My question concerns the issue of citizenship income, Minister: in a recent television broadcast you announced that the 2018 draft budget will contain solutions for the introduction of citizenship income. If I'm not mistaken, this is an income that involves a disbursement of about EUR 16 billion. Then of course you can correct me and provide me with the data you have, but we do not know from which sources and from which assets these resources will be identified and to such an important extent. According to the amendments proposed in the past few years, there is an increase in the one-of-a-kind levy on games, which has already been increased in the so-called Dignity Decree; an increase in additional taxes; an increase in taxes for those who extract gas and so on; in any case, there is always talk of an increase in taxes. The last new thing you proposed was to draw these resources from the six-fold pension cut of the minimum (EUR 3,000 per month), which would have been cut from 0.1 to 32%. The income of citizenship that you want to introduce to me seems to be a quite dangerous instrument, because, especially in the South, it could create that sort of income for which the unemployed person no longer tries to reenter the world of work. Moreover, if it were to be reinserted, it would perhaps do so by doing work in black, with this creating a damage to the many companies that work in compliance with the law. On the financing in question, in support of the income income of citizenship that you wish to achieve, we would like to know from you whether it is more or less true that it will start from 2018 and if you do not feel that you indicate the necessary resources, how they will be recovered and whether and what measures you intend to take to prevent any abuse in the use of this instrument. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Economic Development and Labour and Social Policy, Mr Di Maio, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u42	Mr President, I would like to point out that citizenship income is one of the priorities of this Government and its establishment is provided for precisely in the contract that has been concluded between the two political forces of majority. Above all, in our opinion, it is a priority for the country. In the face of the continuous impoverishment of Italian families, one can no longer remain unarmed, nor propose palliatives that do not solve the problem. We need a real economic maneuver. According to ISTAT, families in serious material deprivation are more than 11 percent of the total. Citizenship income has the dual function of removing people from the state of poverty in which they live and of training unemployed people for work. There are virtually different forms, with the exception of Italy and Greece, in all the countries of the European Union. It is therefore time for this measure to recognize the dignity of the person to be introduced into our country as well. The proposed law on citizenship income is ready and we are already working in this direction in coordination with the Ministry of Economy for the last details. You will soon have the opportunity to discuss all the details of citizenship income in this branch of Parliament. On the side of the meeting between supply and demand, we will set up a database for the classification and cross-section of data. The single information system will be fed with continuous electronic information from ministries and institutions, with the electronic registration of qualifications and skills of workers and with the creation of an electronic personal file. In order to combat abuse, heavy penalties are provided for those who falsely state the situation of income or work and thus may unlawfully obtain income. Sanctions are also provided for public officials responsible for unlawful allocation of this instrument. At the same time, beneficiaries must commit themselves to finding work with the help of reorganised employment centres and must make themselves available to work and increase their skills. They will also engage in projects useful to the community up to a maximum of eight hours per week and will not be able to refuse the offers that will be placed to them. In addition to engaging in an active job search for at least two hours a day, they will have to form, so they won't be able to sit on the couch. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u43	Senator Floris has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u44	Mr Minister, I should like to say that I am satisfied with your answer, since you have not answered the most important question, namely how you feel that you can have the necessary amount to pay for this citizenship income. As far as experience is concerned, I can tell you that, to my knowledge, there is a precedent in Europe for introducing citizenship income and it is Finland, where the experiment involved 2,000 subjects. After a year, the experiment was interrupted, because even in Finland those who felt it were not looking for other work. That's the problem. If you tell me that work must be searched through employment centres, then I am sure that these people will never be re-entered into the world of work again. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] Perhaps the employment centre will work, but this will happen over the next two or three years, when it will be completely changed and you, Minister, know that the employment centres in Italy do not work, if it is true that only 1% of the working population find work through these centres. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u45	Senator Lupo has the right to explain the question 3-00156 on the contract for a state aircraft, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u46	Mr Vice-President of the Council and Minister for Economic Development, Luigi Di Maio, the question concerns the case of the Airbus A340-500 State Aircraft, which has just come to the fore in the political news, the contractual situation of which has been unclear until recently. It appears, among other things, that Alitalia has been used or called into question - so it is a dossier in the hands of economic development - for the conclusion of a contract that until recently was difficult to dissolve. The question now arises as to the procedural procedure followed by the current Government for the termination of the effects of the contractual relationship; whether there are negotiated clauses that provide for an option to purchase the aircraft and - in that case - at what price, and whether the same aircraft appears to have operated one or more routes or that did not fly almost completely; whether it appears who wanted and identified the aircraft and whether there have been delegation by the Presidency of the Council of the then Renzi Government [[comments from the PD Group]] ; who, above all, has signed the above contract; what is today the value of the aeroplane and the total cost in terms of direct and indirect charges related to the contractual conclusion. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] MALPEZZI (PD). Next time, say it in your own words! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Minister for Economic Development and Labour and Social Policy, Mr Di Maio, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u47	Mr President, Airbus A340-500 is for me one of the symbols of waste and of the privileges that we feel the duty to eliminate. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u48	There is no need for applause or dispute. Let the Minister answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u49	DIMAIO, Deputy President of the Council of Ministers and Minister for Economic Development and Minister for Labour and Social Policy. With a letter, me and the ministers Danilo Toninelli and Elisabetta Thirty we have formally asked the commissioners Alitalia to resolve that contract, that it previews four very salty items of expenditure: first of all the leasing, 81 million euros; then the maintenance, 31 million euros; then the handling, 12 million euros, and the training pilots, 4 million euros, for a total cost that would arrive around 150 million euros in eight years, with the lack of internal reconfiguration of the aircraft. It is money that does not go to Alitalia, our carrier, but in almost all for the benefit of Etihad, the owner of Airbus A340-500. We are talking about a quadrimotor turbofan, which came out of the market in 2011 and therefore outdated and obsolete; an apparatus out of time, just like the idea of using this aircraft to satisfy purely narcissistic needs: a waste. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments and protests from the PD Group]] FARAONE (PD). Shame on you! DIMAIO, Deputy President of the Council of Ministers and Minister for Economic Development and Minister for Labour and Social Policy. Mr. President, may I continue? [[Reiterate protests from the PD group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u50	Let the Minister finish! You will have the opportunity to present your point of view, even through other questions, and ask what you want. Is that possible? It'll be possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u51	[[Comments from Senator Bellanova.]] There's no need to protest, Senator Bellanova. Let me finish. Mr Laus (PD). False! DIMAIO, Deputy President of the Council of Ministers and Minister for Economic Development and Minister for Labour and Social Policy. Thank you, Mr President. A multimillion-dollar waste against Italian citizens. For us, it is not a trivial matter, but a matter of principle. Someone has to account for the total ease with which public money has been used. Someone could tell us all the truth about this story. Someone should take responsibility for paying a price if it was wrong. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments and protests from the PD Group]] I make the commitment, on behalf of the Government and before all Italians, to go all the way to this story and reveal all the opaque details: how much this aircraft really cost us and what were the real reasons for its purchase. I remember that the Court of Auditors is also investigating to see to it that we are clear. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments and protests from the PD Group]] Mr. President, then you're gonna make it up to me. I try to stay in time.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u52	Colleagues, I'm gonna have to give the Minister extra minutes if you keep interrupting! DIMAIO, Deputy President of the Council of Ministers and Minister for Economic Development and Minister for Labour and Social Policy. It's the last paragraph, and then it's over!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u53	[[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u54	. Colleagues, I do not believe that a sitting in this House can consist of applause and protests. Everyone can say what he wants. The Minister is answering a question. I'd ask for silence on one side and on the other. Mr Marcucci (PD). But he's not answering at all! MIRABELLI (PD). But the Minister must respect us too! MALPEZZI (PD). Narcissism is not an answer! DIMAIO, Deputy President of the Council of Ministers and Minister for Economic Development and Minister for Labour and Social Policy. I went to see the aircraft in question in Fiumicino's hangar and I was literally impressed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u55	[[Ironic comments from the PD Group.]] Those who speak out of propaganda should go and see it and then take a tour of the real world and see - for example - what conditions the regional trains used every day by thousands of Italian commuters are in. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] VALENT (PD). Shame on you! FARAONE (PD). You're a clown! Go to Facebook! VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Get out of here! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So if you guys keep doing this, I'm gonna have to stop the live TV. That's how it's gonna be. I don't admit they're offended. [[Protests from the PD Group]] Minister, terms please. DIMAIO, Deputy President of the Council of Ministers and Minister for Economic Development and Minister for Labour and Social Policy. That's the last sentence, President. If I may, I will pronounce it; otherwise, if the Senate does not want, I will leave. [[Comments from the PD Group]] VALENT (PD). Be serious! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I urge you to stop; otherwise you must leave the Chamber. FARAONE (PD). Get out! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Outside, it's just me and no one else. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Please, Minister. DIMAIO, Deputy President of the Council of Ministers and Minister for Economic Development and Minister for Labour and Social Policy. Mr President, we simply think it is time to think only of the Italian citizens and, therefore, we will abandon this toy. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the PD Group]] MALPEZZI (PD). Answer the representatives of the citizens! Mr Laus (PD). Liar! FARAONE (PD). Liar!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u56	Colleagues, I would not like to get you out of the Chamber. If anyone in here wants to offend me, I'm gonna have to get him out. I do not find it dignified for politics, the institutions and this Parliament to have such an attitude. Everyone says what they want, but the insults are not allowed in this House. There is no need to offend to express one's own concept or idea. FARAONE (PD). Tell him! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If that happens again, I'm gonna suspend the TV show and get it out. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I have the power to respond to Senator Wolf for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u57	Mr President, Minister, in order to avoid further controversy, I immediately say that I am very satisfied with the answer. [[Ironic applause from the PD Group]] BELLANOVA (PD). Bravo! LUPE (M5S). I am sure that this Government will no longer use the Alitalia national company for other purposes. Minister, thank you for your reply and thank you also to the opposition for demonstrating that we are doing a very good job. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] MALPEZZI (PD). Fake news alive!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u58	Senator De Petris has the right to explain question 3-00151 on measures to combat illegality in agricultural work for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u59	Mr President, I regret that Mr Di Maio is leaving, because I believe that the question should be of some interest to him too. Minister Centinario, you know perfectly well the ISTAT data for 2017, which confirm, once again, that the primary sector is still strongly affected by forms of illegality in employment relations, with detected irregularities affecting 39% of employee employment relationships. I think you know as well as I do that, on the basis of the fourth agromafie and caporalate report, between 400,000 and 430,000 agricultural workers are exposed to the risk of an irregular and under corporal engagement. Of these, more than 132,000 are in a state of serious social vulnerability and severe occupational suffering. These numbers, unfortunately, confirm a scenario similar to that of previous years: more than 300,000 agricultural workers, or almost 30 percent of the total, work less than fifty days a year. It is precisely in this basin where, presumably, irregular and grey work is lurking. The rate of irregularities in employment relationships in agriculture is 39%. According to estimates, there are 30,000 companies using corporal mediation, i.e. about 25% of the total number of companies in the national territory employing employees. Sixty per cent of these companies engage those who are called corporal team leaders. Minister, I believe that you have been able to see the conditions of workers who have been subjected to these forms of exploitation of capitalists in a very serious way, with the average wage ranging from EUR 20 to EUR 30 per day, piecework and under-corporal workers who have to pay. Minister, you should know - in the last legislature you were a senator - how important it was to approve Law No. 199 of 2016 on the subject of caporalate. Yet, from his words he gave almost the idea that he wanted to put his hand on that law, which came into force for the repressive part. All the laws need - in my opinion - a period of verification to carry out their effects, but that has been a very important and significant moment of work civilization, legal civilization, the fight against mafias and organised crime. So do you not think, Minister, that we need to go ahead with the implementation of the law, perhaps by putting into practice the new provisions as regards also the part on transport and placement on which there are still delays? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to conclude. The precise question is what you intend to do. Will he categorically deny that he wants to change the law on the caporalate, rather extending the national quality network, which would allow us to make great progress even in the accession of companies? [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u60	The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry and Tourism, Senator Centinaio, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the Ministry is directly involved in the issues raised by the interrogators in particular with regard to the Quality Agricultural Labour Network and its steering booth, which are one of the points of the action to prevent the phenomenon of the head of state and of the black labour in agriculture provided for in Law No 199 of 2016. This rule is characterized by two components: a repressive one, which provides new tools - such as confiscation - and tightens the penalties for those who exploit labour in need without the need to demonstrate the use of violence as in the past; a preventive one, which aims to enhance the enterprises in order through the registration of the Quality Agricultural Work Network. On this, the Ministry is strongly committed and intends to continue to promote the development of this instrument also through the encouragement of the territorial sections. With the rule has extended the scope of the subjects who can join the Network and the scope of the functions carried out by the cabin of direction of the Network itself, which is presided over by the INPS and composed of representatives of unions, agricultural organizations and institutions. At present, 4,000 companies are registered on the Network. I believe that this result must be strengthened again through action to promote the Network and further simplify access to agricultural holdings. The Quality Agricultural Work Network is divided into territorial sections to which the parties who have concluded the conventions provided for by the rule in question can adhere. The activities assigned to them include the promotion of initiatives for the implementation of functional and efficient forms of organisation of the transport of workers to the workplace, including through the conclusion of agreements with local authorities. To date, thanks to the impulse of our administration and the government commissioner for emergency crime in Manfredonia, a territorial section of the Network in Foggia has been created. Analogous request for the constitution of the territorial section was made by the prefect for the area of San Ferdinando- Rosarno. On the issue of vouchers, many of you have said that you are in favour of amending the current rules on occasional benefits in agriculture. One of the first interventions of this Dicastery has moved precisely in this sense, recognizing that it is a real need, felt by both the entrepreneurs and the workers who carry out their employment mainly in some periods of the year and that today they are unable to use the instrument made available to them, because it does not meet the real needs. Thinking about the seasonality of work, the sectors that are most involved are those of agriculture and tourism, and these are precisely the basis of the regulatory intervention on which we are working. [[Call the president back.]] President, may I conclude? Otherwise I deliver the written text.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u62	Please, Minister, conclude very quickly.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u63	Mr CENTINAIO, Minister for Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism Policy. We are well aware that an agricultural undertaking which is running a particularly heavy amount of work over a certain period of the year has a temporary need to employ additional staff. We are, therefore, working in several directions, with the aim of overcoming the criticalities of both the old vouchers and the current ones. First of all, we want to facilitate the identification of the workers available; secondly, we want to extend the time frame in which we can benefit from the service, since, especially in agriculture, weather conditions could force an inevitable delay in the activity. Moreover, Senator, it is intended to facilitate the payment of the compensation that must be collected in a simple and fast way. Finally, Senator De Petris, I don't want to change the law on the caporalate. It is not my interest to amend the law on the caporalate, but to verify, together with you, its applicability, its efficiency and effectiveness. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u64	Senator De Petris has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u65	Mr President, Minister, I take note of the fact that you have said that you do not intend to amend the law on the caporalate and want to verify its efficiency. In this regard, I would like to say at once, with regard to the issue of vouchers, that we believe that having reintroduced the new rules on vouchers, particularly in agriculture, is in fact a staple for questioning that law, and I also explain why: you know better than I do that in the national agricultural contract it is also possible to take on a daily basis. Among other things, the voucher, spread for ten days, means, once again, a de facto safe conduct for black work. You just think that spreading a voucher for ten days means a fee of EUR 2.80 per day. It practically competes with the price set by corporals and criminals. That's the point and not only that. The national agricultural contract is the most flexible of all and allows - even with a day, or half a day - to recognize - for example - motherhood. Using the voucher, however, spread out over ten days, means blowing up this mechanism too. It means once again that we're ready for inspection. For this reason, we will obviously fight against the new rules on vouchers and, if you really want to apply - and go to the end - the law on caporalate, you should be the first to oppose their introduction. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u66	Senator Bergesio has the right to explain the question 3-00152 on the increase of coupled support in the agro-food sector, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u67	Mr President, Minister, we know that coupled aid concerns specific sectors of agricultural production and is aimed at supporting activity. They are right in the particular importance of the sector, from the economic, social and environmental point of view, and in the fact that the companies that operate there are subjected to particular difficulties or to short or long-term criticalities. On this level there are these areas where there is a risk of abandonment, decline of production, with negative repercussions on the agri-food and socio-economic balance of important territorial areas. Following these aims, on 26 July, the State-Regions Conference approved the draft decree of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism Policies, which provides for an increase in coupled support under the common agricultural policy for the cultivation of sugar beet, rice and durum wheat for the year of application 2019. The increase in coupled support for beet, rice and durum wheat, as specified by the Ministry itself, has been decided to encourage farmers to make even more incisive commitments in terms of the sustainability of production processes, the only way to differentiate our Italian productions. It was a very long-awaited measure by the world of production and a concrete and decisive signal to farmers. The sugar supply chain has a high strategic value for our made in Italy, as it is a production of 100% Italian sugar, quality and that respects every social, environmental, safe and stable rule over time. The sugar sector, in fact, is reduced from the end of the quotas in October 2017 and from a very strong restructuring process. The same applies to the problem of rice growing. The sector is going through a severe crisis. We are here, Minister, to ask whether, in order to continue the approach taken, it is not appropriate to encourage consultation between all the interested parties, which also involves the Regions, in order to find solutions that lead to a rebalancing of the markets and a fair exploitation of excellence at European level. Then we would like to know if it does not consider it useful perhaps to carry out an evaluation of the effects of the application of this decree-law in terms of the number of companies involved and the economic benefits, and perhaps also socio-economic, expected. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u68	The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry and Tourism, Senator Centinaio, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u69	Mr President, the proposal I put forward to achieve a targeted increase in the value of the coupled payment provided for by the CAP in favour of sugar beet, rice and durum wheat for the protection of beet growers and rice growers was approved by the State-Regions Conference on 26 July last. Progressive declining prices have required timely intervention to increase crop profitability and to prevent the continuation of particularly unfavourable and penalising situations from causing damage, even irreversible, to companies in the national beet-sacchariferous sector. These aspects have been put to the attention of the European institutions on several occasions in order to be able to activate targeted and specific measures that can be more incisive for the defence of our productions, all too often affected by unfavourable conditions in European and international markets. In addition to constant monitoring of the development of the markets for products that represent the pride of the Made in Italy agri-food, particular emphasis will be given to the labelling and traceability of agricultural products used as such or as ingredients of agri-food products. Moreover, the increase in coupled support for beet, rice and durum wheat also aims to encourage farmers to make even greater commitments on the sustainability of the various production processes, the only way to differentiate the Italian productions of excellence and improve their competitiveness on the markets. The change in coupled payments is therefore only the first step in making the most of national agri-food production, as much more will have to be done to address the challenges facing us in the next decade. It will be necessary to use with intelligence and synergy the tools that the future CAP will offer us, inaugurating a season of consultation and sharing useful to overcome the divisions of the past, always respecting the constitutional prerogatives of the Regions in the matter of agriculture [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u70	Senator Bergesio has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u71	Mr President, let us take the opportunity to thank the Minister for the clarity of the exhibition, even though - as the government contract that is carrying out this parliamentary term also states - farmers are moving into a system governed by sector policies which are now almost exclusively within the competence of the Common Agricultural Policy. Too often the Italian governments have been remissive and renunciation in Europe compared to the real needs of the national agricultural sector. A new presence of the Italian Government in Brussels is needed to reform the CAP. Minister, the defence of the work of farmers goes through your work, through the work of the Government, our Commissions and this House. I believe that, through the actions that have been taken, we can already see that there is a different, diversified and stronger action. We always remember that in our country we need competitiveness, but above all we need to defend the products and productions of our farmers that concern zootechnics, also the cereal sector, fruit and vegetables and fish farming. Mr. Minister, I hope you have a good job. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u72	Senator Cucca has the right to explain the question 3-00153 on certain statements by the Minister of Justice for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u73	Mr President, the limited time available to me requires me to recall the content of the two first-signed questions by Senator Parrini of 10 and 30 July last and Senator Valente of 30 July last. In view of the serious statements made by the Minister of Justice at the outcome of the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 24 July, during which the so-called thousand-prorogation decree was adopted, in commenting on the rule that postpones the entry into force of the new legislation on interceptions, she, Minister, had apodically raised very serious accusations against the PD responsible - as she said - for conduct aimed at binding the hands of the judicial police and the judiciary, also preventing the right to information, even though she was aware that the objective was exactly the opposite. Considering, moreover, that you have stated several times that one of the primary objectives of the Government to which you belong is the fight against corruption, which, given the spread, would undermine the legitimate expectations of honest citizens, prevaricate by the system of recommendations and corruption, except then learn of your relations with lawyer Lanzalone, who, as confirmed in several locations, even officers by the same mayor Rays, had been pointed out by you precisely to the Rays as a consultant on very important issues of extreme importance; also, considering, at least, that the fact that it is necessary to remind the Minister of Justice that its primary task is to protect the principle of independence of the judiciary from constraints of the public power, is asked to know from you what information the Minister of Justice is in possession of to say that every time that someone of the PD was heard there was the PD who tried to cut the line and communications, also clarifying on the basis of which law of the State, with what manner and with what purpose it has obtained this information, and if it does not feel necessary, given the seriousness of the facts reported, inform Parliament immediately. He asked whether he felt that his statements had been seriously detrimental to the prerogatives and duties of the judiciary and the judicial police and whether, in his role as Minister, he had adhered to the application of the laws in force and to the protection of the prerogatives and tasks of which I have just spoken; whether, in order to protect the institutional role he held, he did not consider it necessary to clarify in a short time the nature of his relations with the lawyer Lanzalone, in relation to the facts mentioned in the preamble and on the basis of what assessments he intended to indicate it to the mayor Raggi as consultant; whether in relation to these facts, in order to protect the prestige and integrity of the institutions, you do not consider it necessary to explain whether since the day you were elected to the Chamber of Deputies to date there have been professional or other relations between his study and that of the lawyer Lanzalone. Finally, he wonders what initiatives he intends to take in order to reassure Parliament and the whole country that, despite the facts contained in the miniature premise - in the opinion of the interrogators - in a serious way the credibility of his Ministry, she can carry out the important task that he is called to carry out with honor and discipline, with the utmost respect for the prestige of the institution that presides. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u74	The Minister for Justice, Mr Bonafede, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u75	Mr President, first of all, let me say that I remember, as a Member of Parliament, that the question time was a serious and important instrument, with which Parliament pricks the Ministers on the acts taken... [[Protests from the PD Group.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). But how dare you? MIRABELLI (PD). President, you have to say something. [[Call the president back.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u76	I can't understand the protest. I don't understand you frankly.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u77	BONAFEDE, Minister for Justice. Shall I start again, President? MALPEZZI (PD). Are you kidding me? Mr Marcucci (PD). Are we crazy? Don't you understand the protest? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marcucci, I don't understand the protest for the simple fact that you're talking about your own experience. Don't share it, patience. Come on. MIRABELLI (PD). He's been in government office for five years! MALPEZZI (PD). Start with an apology. Apologize now! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask you to respect the opinion of others, even if not shared. You're welcome, Minister. Maybe we'll skip a lot of preambles to keep going. Mr Marcucci (PD). It is the government that must be respectful of Parliament! BONAFEDE, Minister for Justice. Mr President, the Democratic Party will clearly have the opportunity to respond to what it does not agree with. VALENT (PD). Yeah, thank you. You're gonna give it to us. MALPEZZI (PD). How he connects her first! BONAFEDE, Minister for Justice. I was saying, with regard to government acts. I didn't remember the question time as a tool to turn the Senate into a recreational circle for political forces that have nothing to do. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Minister FARAONE (PD). That's enough! [[Protests from the PD Group.]] [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr Laus (PD). Buffoon! MALAN (FI-BP). Get out of here, Minister! LONARDO (FI-BP). Shame! Get out!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u78	Minister, excuse me, please... [[Protests from the PD Group. Call the president back.]] I can't talk if you don't stop. Stop it! I can't talk. [[Lively protests from the PD Group.]] I'm interrupting the session. I can't talk. Stop it. Minister, I would ask you, but... [[Reiterate protests from the PD Group.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). You're a liar, you're a clown! MALPEZZI (PD). Shame on you! Mr Laus (PD). Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you talk, I can't talk. You're protesting unnecessarily, because I can't talk. If voices overlap, you can't understand anything. [[Very lively protests from the PD Group.]] Stop it! Mr Marcucci (PD). Can we stop? The Minister must stop. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I said stop it. I can't talk like that! I claim my role. MIRABELLI (PD). Do it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm claiming it. But if you talk, I can't talk. Get out then! VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Shame! Shame! Shame! Mr Verducci (PD). You're a provocateur! COMINANCES (PD). The recreation club! (Senator Beginini approaches the benches of the Government.) CASTALDI (M5S). What are you doing? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Nobody gets close to the government desks! Minister, I would ask you to continue. FARAONE (PD). You're a clown! MALPEZZI (PD). Shame on you! [[The Senators of the FI-BP, PD and FdI Groups leave the Chamber. Ironic applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'AZ groups.]] Senators quaestors approach. I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 16:01 and resumed at 16:07.) The session is resumed. I'm shutting down the live TV. I ask that Senators Rampi and Lucidi be removed from the Chamber; that both Senators be removed from the Chamber. I'm asking them to step away spontaneously. So, Minister, before I go on, I'd like to tell you something, with all the respect I can have for you. Since I have not been able to say this before, because I have been prevented from speaking because of the noise that has occurred here, I would like to say that no one is allowed to use expressions that may offend the dignity of this House. I tell her and I tell everyone. [[Applause from the PD, FI-BP, Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) and Mixed Groups]] So I'm sorry, but neither can you. As I was trying to say this before and you prevented me, I would ask everyone to keep their tones down, because perhaps we will be able to understand each other. Please, Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u79	Mr President, I will ask you for a little more time, since in three minutes I have to respond to two completely different issues. Let's start with my relationship with lawyer Luca Lanzalone, in particular on why I wouldn't introduce him to mayor Virginia Raggi in my capacity, then, as coordinator of the municipalities governed by the Movimento 5 Stars. I really have nothing more to add to what I have already said, namely that I presented an excellent professional... Mr Marcucci (PD). Excellent! BONAFEDE, Minister for Justice. ...that at that moment had shown Livorno its value. Clearly, I have full respect for the judiciary... MALPEZZI (PD). That's good. BONAFEDE, Minister for Justice. ...and I don't know what the outcome of the investigation will be. I introduced a lawyer who I thought was excellent at the time. I am then asked what the relationship between lawyer Luca Lanzalone and law firm Bonafede & Partners is, that is, mine. On this I tell you that, having had four hours of time, I could not prepare even a written text, but I made a local mind: in the last six years I have had no professional relationship with lawyer Luca Lanzalone. I would point out that, in order to be sure to answer correctly, this morning I also called my accountant to ask him if by chance, since my law firm sponsored lawsuits throughout Italy, there was an invoice issued by lawyer Luca Lanzalone to me or vice versa, and there isn't. I hope that this can now be considered closed. As far as wiretapping is concerned, however, I am not asked to take account of the act, but of the press review of the act and, in particular, of my statement as follows: Every time someone from PD was heard, there was PD trying to cut the line and communications. I'm asked why. Mr Marcucci (PD). Sure! BONAFEDE, Minister for Justice. Now, aside from, I must say, a certain masochism of interrogations, I will explain why I made those statements. The measure in question, on interceptions, was approved on 29 August 2014 by the Council of Ministers and remained frozen there; on 2 December, however, after the Mafia Capital case broke out, the Government suddenly felt the need to send it to the Chamber. On July 10, 2015, an intercept came out - clearly nothing criminally relevant - between the then president of the Council Matteo Renzi and the commander Michele Adinolfi. You want to see that again by coincidence, a few days later, the Government felt the need to have the Commission convene a night sitting, at which it presented the Pagano amendment, the so-called gag amendment, which fortunately, thanks to Parliament's work, we managed to correct in a rush. MIRABELLI (PD). So what? BONAFEDE, Minister for Justice. Then, on May 19, 2017, after the conversations - I repeat, not relevant from a criminal point of view - between the then Prime Minister Matteo Renzi and the father emerged in the Consip case, then Minister Andrea Orlando publicly stated that the provision on interceptions had to be approved quickly, precisely to prevent that type of interception. [[Senator Mirabelli's comments.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). What's that got to do with anything? BONAFEDE, Minister for Justice. At this point, I noted in the press conference that there is a strange coincidence between the various circumstances and I made my own political assessment, which I repeat here and again subscribe to. MALPEZZI (PD). It was a personal evaluation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Minister, finish. VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. Yeah, end it, it's better! BONAFEDE, Minister for Justice. Having said that, I have noticed that the sources that are being considered are newspaper articles and my participation in television broadcasts. Given that justice is a serious matter, I hope that in the coming questions time we will be able to deal with my work as Minister for Justice with a high level of criticalness. [[Comments from the PD Group. Call the president back.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). That's our problem! BONAFEDE, Minister for Justice. If you think you should continue in the wake of the chatter... MARCUCCI (PD). In which he specialized, Mr Bonafede, Minister of Justice. ...sign it then to the interrogators that tonight I will participate in a radio broadcast at 7.30 p.m., which could be the starting point for the next question time. [[Applause from the M5S and L-Sp-PSd'Az groups.]] Mr Verducci (PD). He's a provocateur! MALPEZZI (PD). Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Valente has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u80	Mr President, of course, we can only say that we are totally dissatisfied with Mr Bonafede's lack of answers, which in this speech has continued to make illusory and allusion, without ever being on time nor once in response to the accusations that have been made to him. No response came from the Minister to defend the dignity and good repute of the judiciary, as well as its autonomy and independence, apart from sentences made. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] He did not say anything about the judgment of the 49 million which was not applied, nor did he say anything above all about Salvini's statements in relation to the fact that it was a political judgment. This is for a Minister of Justice! [[Applause from the PD Group.]] You, in these days, continue to say that your priority is the fight against corruption. Attorney Lanzalone may also have been a worthy and respectful professional, as you called him, but today he is investigated in a serious and relevant corruption investigation. The judiciary will discharge its responsibilities. We are guaranteed and always are, because the double morale we leave to you, which changes depending on where you are, depending on whether you sit in these or those benches. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We do not want to say anything about this, but I want to tell you one thing: a Minister of Justice talks first of all about the things that are his responsibility and, instead, you, as Minister of Justice, do not talk about that. But he was diligent and punctual when it came to making warnings and recommendations from some of his colleagues, in this case attorney Lanzalone. Minister, you are more likely to be remembered than as a Minister of Justice, as a Minister of Recommendations. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Protests from the M5S Group]] We're gonna have to tell a lot of young people, like me and you, that they're lawyers, that you need to meet a friendly minister like you to get to work in some firm. You don't have to study. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] I ask for credit, transparency and honesty that you have preached. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u81	Senator, that applies to you, too, as I said to the Minister earlier. You, too, have the respect you owe to this House, even in your statements.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u82	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u84	Mr Marcucci (PD). President, I am sorry, but I am starting from your last repressing that I sincerely did not understand. Mr President, I believe that every Member has the right to make his own judgements and the reply has precisely this function: to express... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As long as the judgments are respectful. Mr Marcucci (PD). Judgments are respectful by definition. If you think that the Minister has said things that are not true or sufficient in relation to the questions put by the Democratic Party, Mr President, we have the right to say so to the House and to the country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Today I believe that we have seen a terrible spectacle: Minister Di Maio had the question prepared by his colleague in order to be able to say and make his banal propaganda. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is not a television broadcast; this is a Parliamentary House and we must respond by telling the truth with transparency towards the country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr President, you have a duty to ask ministers Di Maio and Bonafede to respect the country and Parliament, to come here and respond on time. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] Patuanelli (M5S). Mr. President! You need to talk about the order of business. [[Comments of Senator Laus]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u85	He's talking about the order of business. Let him finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u86	Mr Marcucci (PD). I understand that my group leader Patuanelli is embarrassed by these truths, but the issue is precisely the order of business. Patuanelli (M5S). I'm not embarrassed at all. Mr Marcucci (PD). The theme is to know what it's for. We have the right to have punctual answers such as those given by your colleague, Mr Centinario, who has been respectful of the questions asked. You, Mr Bonafede, and Minister Di Maio, who very politely and disrespectfully left immediately, took advantage of today's day to make propaganda, not to respond to the specific demands of the opposition parties in particular. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I believe that the screaming shame has risen as a result of your lack of answers. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u87	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u89	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, I asked for the floor when we left the Chamber in the face of the repeated and clearly desired insults of Minister Bonafede, a minister with very special powers. Each minister has very important powers, but that of justice more than the others. One can express the opinion he wants, but when he makes a deliberate offense against the Senate, this is really unacceptable. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] President. - Thank you for reminding the Minister of this rule of conduct. I see with concern the multiplication of gestures and words that are not respectful of Parliament and of democratic life in general. That is why we must keep them under control, not consider them acceptable and counteract them day by day. We do so and I see that you, Mr President, have done so today, as we did not doubt that you would do. I hope that this will happen in all democratic institutions, because they are a very valuable asset: we cannot point them out and perhaps use them for television purposes to make vicious anti-democratic propaganda. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u90	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u92	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, the embarrassment that was attributed to me by President Marcucci, not only do I reject him, but I think it should be his, when he hears reply to the Minister on the basis of a written text with no answers to questions that have not been asked. I believe that the embarrassment must be of President Marcucci and that reading a text that refers to unanswered questions and which accuses the Minister of not having answered is really ridiculous. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I always ask the Group that I have the honour to preside over being respectful of this House and of all the members of this House, but respect is also shown by not calling a liar to the Minister for Labour and Economic Development or by not calling a Minister of the Republic, as the Minister for Justice, as the Minister for Recommendations. If I respect it, this must be on both sides. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u93	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u95	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, it is not up to me and it is not up to us - you have done it very well - to emphasize the tones and the ways in which we should address ourselves in this House, so I find it superfluous that we insist on highlighting the tones, which are certainly not appropriate to the Minister, or to highlight the reactions, in my opinion, often as inadequate. If anything, then - at least this is my intention, since I asked to speak on the order of business - I would point out that we are still in question time. The order of business cannot be an opportunity to blame each other for the wrong behaviors or languages used. That is up to the President, who did it very well. I turn to Mr Marcucci. Beyond the content of your speech, which I do not want to judge here... ASTORRE (PD). You're more realistic than the king! THE RUSSIAN (FdI). ...it may have been absolutely right in the content, but I think it has been out of order from my colleague Marcucci to take advantage of a request to intervene on the order of business to carry out a political intervention. On this, Mr President, I would ask you to record my speech. [[Applause from the FdI, M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Mr ASTORRE (PD). Come on, they'll give you a chair!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u96	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u98	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, you know how much I have always defended the dignity of this House, even at very complicated and difficult times: the dignity of this House, the call for respect for this House and the dignity of the Senate of the Republic. So I felt particularly offended - and like myself, I believe all the senators - by the Minister's words. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, PD and FI-BP Groups]] You were right to take him back and I am sorry, Minister, that you did not apologise to this House. I am very sorry, because the President has rightly referred to you, as he has called everyone, to be respectful and to have institutional politeness, even when you clash in different positions, and I expected you to apologise. This I could not fail to mention: you had a duty, as Minister of the Republic, to do so, and when you enter this House you must do so on your feet, because this is still a parliamentary Republic. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]] I remembered it a few years ago, and I want to remember it today: you get to the top of the government desks. We're not a recreational club. We have defended the dignity of this House here, we have defended it here as if it were outside, and we cannot tolerate this dignity being vile either before or today. We are all elected by the citizens, dear Minister, we are not a recreational circle, I do not know what you are used to, but we are still waiting for an apology to this House. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, PD and FI-BP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u99	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u100	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-08-02-LEG18-Senato-sed-30.ana.u101	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Friday, August 3, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.26 a.m.
