ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u3	I inform you that on 10 July 2018 the following bill was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and the Ministers of the Interior; foreign affairs and international cooperation; infrastructure and transport; and economics and finance: Conversion into law of Decree-Law No. 84 of 10 July 2018, laying down urgent provisions for the transfer of Italian naval units in support of the Coast Guard of the Ministry of Defence and the bodies for coastal security of the Ministry of the Libyan Interior (624).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u4	The next item is the holding of questions. The first question will be asked 3-00016 on the promotion of Italian wines abroad, with particular reference to the Asian area. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of made-in-Italy agro-food and, in particular, of the products that most distinguish us in the world, is an objective that the Ministry of Agriculture Policy intends to pursue through the growth of our agricultural and food exports, relying on the excellence of our productions, such as wine, of which we are the world's leading producer. Taking note of the European Commission's restrictive interpretation of certain provisions of Regulations No 1149 of 2016 and No 1150 of 2016 (which, in fact, prevented the continuation of promotional actions in third countries to European wine producers who had carried out this activity in the last five years, regardless of the programming period), this Ministry has activated itself, involving the delegations of France and Spain, to represent the consequent negative effects on the sector, while at the same time highlighting that, since the new rules entered into force during 2016, such interpretation should have become effective only from the same date, thus allowing the companies concerned to be able to carry out promotional actions until 2021. The Commission accepted the Italian solution, supported by France and Portugal, allowing companies to have sufficient advance notice for efficient and effective planning, safeguarding and ensuring continuity of the projects submitted by wine producers. The Commission also reiterated that Article 4 of Delegated Regulation No 1149 of 2016 does not provide for exclusion from the promotion support measure provided for by the CMO Wine for beneficiaries who have carried out promotion operations over the five years. The rule prohibits proposers from carrying out a specific transaction in a particular market in a third country for a period exceeding five years. The Commission also pointed out that, after five years of operation in a given market, the same entity is allowed to submit applications for assistance for activities to be carried out in different markets in the same third country or in other third countries, or to carry out operations of a different type in the same market as the third country for a further five years. In the light of the Commission's clarification that the five-year limit for the conduct of specific promotional operations in certain third-country markets must be verified by the Member States from the date of entry into force of Delegated Regulation 1149, i.e. from 18 July 2016, it is clear that beneficiaries who have already carried out promotional activities in third countries may continue to carry out the same operations in those markets for five years following that date.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u8	STEFANO (PD). Mr President, I am partially satisfied with the answer, because it seems to me that it does not solve the issue of the time limit. This provision which the European Commission's Directorate-General for Agriculture has placed, by limiting the time frame within which it is possible to promote foreign markets, severely limits the possibility of successful action on these markets. If we are talking about markets like the Chinese one, imagine that a promotional action can solve the ability to become attractive on that market with a time limit limited to five years, in my opinion it is a mistake. A five-year period for large markets, such as those in America, Brazil or China, is too limiting a choice. I therefore ask you not to imagine that this issue is resolved, because it is not at all. Indeed, if anything, the understanding that involves Spain, which was precisely the country that tried to use that ministerial provision in this sense, is lethal for the activities that companies have put in place on these large markets, in which if in value Italy is not yet the first exporter, it is certainly in quantitative terms. We must give the opportunity to these business systems, which meet under the common organizations (CMOs), to continue for an appropriate period. Their promotional activity cannot be limited to five years because perhaps, just when that product in those markets begins to be known, the limitation does not allow it to recover a competitive advantage. So what I am asking the government is to change its approach and remove the five-year constraint in the European Commission's Directorate-General for Agriculture. It is not possible to give access to promotion programmes on third markets by setting a time limit which cannot be set by law. Rather, it will depend on the ability with which that action will be able to determine results.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u9	The following are questions 3-00043 and 3-00068 on Italy's participation in the creation of an autonomous European defence force. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u10	Mr President, I would like to thank the interrogators, Senator Ginetti and Senator Gasparri, for the dual opportunity given to the Dicastery today to outline briefly, but clearly the content of an initiative which is certainly important in the area of security and to share equally clearly the Italian position in this regard, dissipating the apprehensions that this choice might have caused. The European intervention initiative - European intervention initiative, wishing to define it in Italian - was promoted by France with the aim of developing, through the sharing of information, a strategic culture common to the countries that join it, in order to facilitate, if necessary, the rapid activation of operations to safeguard strategic interests shared in a way released from the decision-making dynamics of the European Union and NATO. Specifically, the initiative aims to develop links between the armed forces of some European nations, selected according to the criteria of the availability of military capacity and the political will to act, involving them in key areas such as situational awareness (scenario analysis), operational support and development of the doctrine and lessons learned. The project, therefore, does not promote the establishment of a force, nor does it tend to form the so-called EU armed forces, nor commands, nor arrangements for military intervention. This initiative, after a period of negotiation followed by the previous Government, was formalized by a letter of intent which the Ministers of Defence of France, Germany, Belgium, the United Kingdom, Denmark, Holland, Estonia, Spain and Portugal signed on 25 June in Luxembourg. The project is still in its embryonic phase and much remains to be defined. There are, however, sufficient elements for its assessment of merit and opportunity. On the substance, while sharing the main aim, namely to create a common European strategic culture, it would be premature, given the interests at stake, to join the initiative without first having weighed the impact on important joint projects already established or under way in Europe in the field of security and defence. In particular, at the political level, an analysis of the content of the proposal reveals the real risk that the strategic interests of the States participating in the initiative are the only ones to be protected, interests which, however, may not coincide with those of the European Union as a whole and which Italy, on the contrary, is struggling to promote in the direction of an autonomous and concrete capacity for defence by the Union. There is, in other words, a risk of fragmentation in a two-speed Europe: on the one hand, the group of selected States that adhere to the proposal; on the other hand, those that remain outside it. This fragmentation could compromise both the credibility of the European Union's cohesion in this sensitive area and the unanimous and recognised Italian commitment to building a political union with a strong security and defence competence. Turning to the strictly technical aspect of the initiative, there are further potential challenges that need to be explored further and that are related to the danger of duplication and dispersal of resources, as well as to the possible overlap with similar structures and mechanisms already in place or planned to be created not only within the EU, but also in NATO and multinational, with potential waste of resources to be avoided. As far as the opportunity is concerned, the officialisation of the European intervention initiative seems to us not to be entirely in tune with the particular political moment that is currently experiencing the long-awaited European defence, which finally sees a possibility of concrete realization thanks to the recent activation of permanent structured cooperation (CFSPO), an important and unprecedented success in the EU, whose objective is precisely the development and use of operational capacities at Community level, capacity which Italy is also contributing as a protagonist to develop with multiple projects already underway. Ladies and gentlemen, as I think it is clear from what I have said, this Government does not, in principle, oppose the aims pursued by the European intervention initiative, if oriented towards the development of a strategic culture that is fully European and if to safeguard strategic interests that are truly common. In this respect, we are careful to take the concrete developments now, assessing their progress and results for possible future decisions. At the same time - and I address those who, fearing national isolation, consider the initiative a priori as a train not to be missed - we cannot ignore what has emerged from the long work devoted to perfecting the letter of intent conducted by the previous Government. I am referring to the risk of a possible overlap with the CFSP, which is naturally inclusive and oriented towards the aims and interests of the European Union as a whole. For these reasons, Italy, considering that it is much more profitable to work within the Union to improve the available instruments, reaffirms, at least for the time being, its priority commitment to CFSP projects, in which it considers it much more useful to include this initiative.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u13	GINETTI (PD). Mr President, I am partially satisfied with the answer. I would like to remind you that, at the formal level, the Law of 24 December 2012, n. 234, requires that the Government, before taking a position, should nevertheless acquire the political direction of Parliament, especially in the field of defence, which has not been done. This is an important step in the relationship between democratic participation in Parliament's representation and the Commission. From the point of view of merit, there is no opposition to the activity of the neo-CFSP, therefore of a permanent structured cooperation, on the contrary, on the contrary, the European initiative of intervention is closely linked to the activity of the CFSP and is in support of the same, so much so that these nine European countries, in the margins of the Council, on June 25, have decided to progress in the hypothesis of enhanced cooperation precisely in order to realize those intentions already declared also by the outgoing Government under leadership PD of the XVII legislature. It was therefore important for our Government to take part in this position, in this development towards a common European defence, within the framework, inter alia, of the Treaty of Lisbon itself. In particular, I would like to point out that significant research projects have already been allocated in the fields of industry and defence research and that the most important of these four projects has been assigned to a consortium led by an Italian company. Therefore, from this point of view too, it is extremely important to be part of a context of programming of this evolution, found that it should be possible to count on EUR 500 million for the next two years 2019-2020. Therefore, our hope is that, precisely the evolution with respect to the operations of EUNAVFOR Med of European security, we will join, not only in this letter of intent, but precisely in the project of structuring a common defence.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u16	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, I am basically dissatisfied with the answer because, although we have actually acquired some element, the substance of the facts that we have asked with two similar questions concerned the sudden decision that Italy should not take part in this nine-way defence initiative promoted by France. In part there is an answer: it is said that the valid initiatives are those of permanent structured cooperation (CFSPO), while this is in fact somewhat abandoned or expects to understand if it will be reabsorbed in the aforementioned CFSP. This partial response could have been given by the Government, as this absence of ours has created disorientation at a time when we must not forget how difficult our presence in the European institutions is, where we have sometimes rightly claimed different defence and security policies and also the use of defence structures. Let us think of the front on the southern border of Europe, that of the Mediterranean, which then with the entry of the illegals causes intra-European tensions on the famous passages of second degree: if one enters Europe, tries to move from Italy to Austria or from Austria to Germany, but if there were not the main entrance to the border of Europe we would not have the problem of secondary transit. In our opinion, therefore, all the initiatives aimed at a greater link between European defence initiatives, both established and innovative, must see the Italian presence, also because, as we have mentioned in the questions, Italy had expressed interest and willingness to participate. Among other things, with the present act of inspection union we have aroused a first partial clarification, because the answer indicates some element regarding the policy of the Ministry of Defence, which so far has been a mysterious object. In fact, if we exclude today's interview given by the Minister of Defence in the newspaper "Avvenire", we have not yet had the communications of parliamentary start-up, indeed starting mandate; in this case the mandate of the Government and the start of the legislature, a little late for the known events, coincide and we still do not know what the address will be. Today there is an interview that deals with some issues, such as the Court's ruling on the union that will have to be established and the issue of uranium, with all the consequences for the defence personnel, but we would like to understand what the general guidelines are. We have in question purchases and investments that concern drones with possible negative repercussions, on the basis of the decisions that will be taken, on Italian industrial plants, on international relations, on defence and security practices. We need to place our commitment in a European framework: there is certainly NATO, there are more general agreements. In the same way, the development of European defence initiatives is also crucial, an issue that Europe has been discussing for decades and which can also lead to a rationalization of expenditure, interventions that can free up resources for personnel or for different security needs. In short, we would like to know also on this aspect what the politics of the Government is; so far there has been the non participation, after an interest manifested by Italy in another phase, in this initiative to nine where all the main European countries are present, but Italy has not been there; even if it is something in proud, even if it is something that must have its definition in the future, it is good to be there to smell the air, to understand where you go and direct the processes. We therefore urge the Government to be more involved in these initiatives; then history will tell us what will be the ones to develop, whether the European defence projects will have real development or whether they will be attempts destined to have little success. This issue, moreover, has been discussed since General De Gaulle's time with many failures and very little success. I shall conclude, Mr President, by wishing that the communications of the Minister of Defence, which presumably will take place around 25 or 26 July, although a little late, will clarify these aspects. Also on the issues of these hours, with respect to the Navy's employment, a few days ago, in this very Chamber, I told the Minister of the Interior to be careful: there are not only NGOs, but also the Navy and the Coast Guard that carry illegals. I am not a prophet, but, following these events, I had said what is known in these hours. Defence policy is also linked to security and the fight against immigration. We would like to see whether all ministers have the same ideas and the same policy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u17	Following is the question 3-00018 on the shortage of staff in the command of the fire department of Alexandria. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the question on the agenda, Senator Berutti points out the situation of the provincial command of the fire department in Alexandria and asks whether the Government is aware of the shortage of personnel involved in that command and what initiatives are being taken, also in relation to the overall organic endowment of the National Corps in the Piedmont region. As a preliminary point, I would like to stress that this Government will pay particular attention to the problems concerning the strengthening of men and means of the National Firefighters Corps which, at the moment, faced with an organic forecast of 37,481 employees, suffers a shortage of just over 3,000 units. In this respect, measures are being implemented to mitigate the impact of this deficit. I refer, in particular, to the authorisation to ban a new selective procedure for the introduction of 250 young people in the qualification of firefighter; to the extraordinary recruitment of 1,300 units, with a five-year programming, starting from 1 October of each year: for 2018 there are 50 recruitments; to the assumption of 400 units in the initial roles of the National Corps, already happened on 7 May last, to the assumption faculties of 2018 relative to the one hundred percent of the cessations happened in 2017: the vigil students have already begun the eighty-third training course that will be completed by the end of the year; to an increase of the organic endowment of the qualification of firefighter of 300 units with effect from 1 October 2018. It should also be pointed out that the Body has been called upon to face greater functional burdens in the light of recent regulatory interventions, such as the active fight against forest fires after the absorption of the State Forestry Corps or the assumption of a role of technical and inspection coordination in the most complex public relief interventions, also enshrined in the new Civil Protection Code, as well as the most burdensome commitments arising from the new directives on integrated safety at public events. These circumstances actually determine the need to provide for additional staff units to be put in place in order to adequately carry out the new missions outlined above. Moreover, I would point out that the Council of Ministers has recently fired a regulatory intervention that completes the reform plan that began in 2017 and aims to ensure the optimization of the effectiveness of the functions of the National Body as well as the implementation of the order structure of its staff. It is a very complex intervention that addresses the entire operational structure, through the valorization of all human resources and their professionalism. The overall intervention, moreover, will involve a revision of the territorial system with the establishment of the districts - intermediate organizational units between commands and detachments - especially in the industrial realities or more strongly anthropized on district basis, capable of making more effective the operational response of the National Corps. This innovation will have a positive impact on all areas of reference, as it will ensure, also in the areas of prevention, greater proximity of the administration to the needs of citizenship and businesses in matters of institutional competence. Coming in a more specific way, at the time of the question, I represent that the provincial command of the fire department of Alexandria, against a theoretical organic endowment pairs to 292 units (of which 4 directors, 2 alternate directors, 8 fire inspectors, 20 department heads, 70 team heads, 164 fire department and 24 administrative-accountable and technical-informatic units), presents a staff of 249 units (of which 3 directors, 4 fire inspectors, 20 department heads, 53 team heads, 153 fire department and 16 personnel units of the administrative and technical IT role). With particular reference to the operational staff, it is clear that, while for the qualification of the department heads the full coverage of the staff is recorded, for the team leaders the deficiency is pairs to 24 percent, above the national average that it is 13.65 percent. For the role of the vigilantes, the deficit is, instead, 6.7%, compared to the allocation in the same role that, at national level, presents a slight deficiency, equal to 0.3%. Overall, the shortage of all personnel working at the command of Alexandria is 14,72 percent, higher than the national one, equal to 7,28 percent. In view of this organic situation, four firefighters took part in that provincial command following the conclusion of the 81st training course last May. More generally, in order to reduce the deficiencies on the national territory, the fire department has in anticipation of starting the mobility of additional personnel belonging to the qualification of firefighter; in this regard, already from the next 6 August, will be expected the assignment to the territorial offices, of the guards coming from the 82nd training course, while in the month of September will be started the procedures for the reconnaissance and the subsequent assignment of the guards coming from the 83rd and 84th courses. In addition, with regard to the role of team leaders and department heads, it is represented that the promotion procedure for the qualification of head of team covering 608 units is being defined. In relation to what the questioner asked about the organic allocation for the Piedmont region, I would point out that with regard to operational staff, compared with a theoretical allocation of 1,901 units, there is an effective presence of 1,717 units with a deficit of 9.68 per cent greater than the national one, which is, overall, 3.53%. Finally, I would like to point out that the assistance on the provincial territory is guaranteed with professionalism and efficiency, also by modulated the organization with the intervention, where necessary, of the teams coming from the nearest territories. To conclude, I would also add that, as already mentioned, it will be the Government's commitment and burden to submit to Parliament an assumption plan that will further reduce staffing difficulties, obviously bearing in mind that Parliament intends to approve these requests for measures. [[Applause from the L-SP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u21	Mr Berutti (FI-BP). Mr President, I am partially satisfied and, in any case, I welcome the commitment and the statement made because I believe that they are something positive in the future. Of course, you have said well: in these years, in this last period, in the revolution that has been carried out on the forestry body, on the change, even climate change, which is now epochal and on a number of contingent situations, the need for structural work is clear. And let's say that I also appreciate the broader view. I have focused mainly on the Piedmont region, on a problem linked to my province but, above all, on the fact that it is a particularly difficult province from a structural point of view, with infrastructures, roads and companies with a particular level of danger; therefore I have referred to a whole series of situations that require some attention. I picked up the numbers; then, of course, you should put yourself there with the calculator. It seems to me that we are, at this stage, in a rather weak situation in terms of projection and recruitment. I am also aware that we are at an early stage and, therefore, the hope is that, according to the programme that will be placed, we will be talking about important numbers. There are, in fact, regions and regions: there are regions that have particular territorial conformations and there are others that have much more complex ones. So I believe that it is not and should not be just a matter of recruitment, but it is really a question of structural conditions. So let there be a plan, let there be a proposal, on which we will certainly be available - at least as far as I am concerned and as far as we are concerned - to dialogue or at least to evaluate the situation, but what matters is to start analyzing it again. In fact, if firefighters once had a function, today of course the vision must be completely different. I would add that this is the tip of the iceberg of a problem that concerns the Forces of Order, that is, all those men in uniform that we hope today can be implemented. If we want the country to work, the system must still be structured. Of course, we put ourselves in your hands, in the Ministry and the Minister's hands, and we certainly remain at your disposal. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u22	Following is the question 3-00022 on the situation of the nomadic camp of Poderaccio in Florence. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u23	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Totaro for bringing this fact to the attention of the House, which is extremely dramatic. The subject of the question, ladies and gentlemen, concerns the tragic disappearance of the twenty-nine-year-old Duccio Dini, who was overwhelmed last 10 June 2018, in Florence, in the area of Via Canova, while he was on his scooter standing at the traffic light, by a car engaged in a chase that resulted after a violent dispute over family relations between Roma people, some of whom resided in the field of Poderaccio. On the episode, which has aroused great emotion, have concentrated since the immediacy of the tragic events the investigations of the provincial command of the Carabinieri of Florence, that have led to the identification of four persons turned out involved in the fact, already known to the Police for having committed criminal offences or having been subjected to police checks on the territory. Among these, two people were arrested for the crime of serious personal injuries in competition, then listed by the prosecutor of the Republic at the court of Florence in arson homicide in competition, a crime for which they are still held at the surrounding house of Florence-Sollicciano. A third person was denounced on the loose for the crime of serious personal injuries in competition, also listed then in arson murder in competition and, subsequently arrested, on 4 July last. On the same date, the Carabinieri of the provincial command of Florence arrested three other persons in execution of the same orders of custody in prison issued by the gip at the court of Florence at the request of the local prosecutor of the Republic, against subjects of Roma ethnicity. As mentioned above, the two people arrested in the imminence of the fact reside in the Roma camp of the Poderaccio - more precisely called Villaggio rom del Poderaccio I and II lot - where, at present, 242 people live, 79 of whom are minors, of which, as reported by the provincial command of the Carabinieri, 76 are burdened by police history for crimes against the property, the person, in the matter of drugs and other. The municipal administration of Florence has also informed that the presences within the camp, in recent years, have been halved and that one of the objectives of the municipality is the definitive closure of the Poderaccio, planned over a period of eighteen months. During the last few months, actions have already been carried out to remove unauthorised persons, to cut down some buildings built illegally and to check also the regularity of the vehicles present. With regard to two other people arrested at a later stage, the same City of Florence has represented that they reside in as many popular accommodations, placed in via Simone Martini and in via Attavante, and that for the same there are no reports or complaints for episodes of violence or disturbance. As regards the arrangements for allocating residential housing units, the same municipal authority has specified that it does not have classifications by ethnicity of the assigners of public housing housing (ERP) and that it assigns the social housing according to the criteria laid down in the current legislation. In the case of complaints attesting episodes of violence within the condominium or serious violations of the condominium rules, the municipal administration proceeds with decadence, as permitted by the reference legislation. The Regional Law on Public Housing (No 96 of 1996), in fact, allows to declare the forfeiture of the assignment if the assignee has seriously and repeatedly infringed the provisions of law, user regulations and self-management regulations relating to the use of the accommodation, or has caused serious damage to the accommodation, its appliances or the common parts of the building, voluntarily. The orderly coexistence in the buildings of public housing is ensured, according to the Municipality, by the continuous development of the system of self-management, which is encouraged and supported by the municipal administration in all situations where this is possible, also through monitoring by the administration itself. I inform you that the Municipality is currently reviewing the positions of some families previously resident in the field mentioned, who have been able to access public housing buildings. With regard, then, to the request for clarification made by the questioner about the non-application, in respect of the subjects involved in the event, of the so-called urban Daspus, it must be pointed out that the City of Florence has found that the aforementioned removal measure can be arranged, according to the current legislation, only for specific areas, for some defined behaviors and for a limited period of time. More generally, on the front of the initiatives in the matter of security and control of the territory, I inform that, after the events in Via Canova, on the same evening of 10 June at the prefecture of Florence, a meeting of coordination of the police forces was held, in which was arranged the intensification of the surveillance and control services near the settlement of the Poderaccio. This issue was further addressed in the session of the provincial committee for public order and security on 13 June last, in the presence of the mayor of Florence. On the occasion, the first citizen confirmed that the administration has already begun the progressive dismantling of this settlement and that, in the blackberries of its complete emptying, it will activate a control action H24. Finally, on the subject of the protection of order and public security on the territory of the Florentine metropolitan area, I assure you that the situation is constantly monitored by the competent prefecture, through weekly sessions of the provincial committee for public order and security and coordination meetings of the police forces, where all the emerging issues are examined. In particular, the police forces are careful to intercept every minimum signal of risk for the safety of citizens and, in order to meet their legitimate demand, the general prevention services, during appropriate technical interforce meetings and according to the criticalities found, are re-modulated and intensified from time to time through targeted control plans. I shall conclude, Mr President, by agreeing with the honourable Member that the situation certainly raises extreme alarm and concern; and on this situation, undoubtedly, the Government has clarity of intent and determination of resolution. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u26	Mr Totaro (FdI). Mr President, Mr Senator, ladies and gentlemen, we take note of your reply, which, of course, could not go into the substance of some of the questions raised in the question, because it refers to some statements of principle by the City of Florence. However, what happened regarding the death of Duccio Dini has some incredible, because it is the tip of the iceberg, it is the final phase of an escalation that occurred in the city of Florence (but it could occur in any other part of our national territory) and in which there is someone who, in our cities, thinks he is above the law, of not respecting the rules and of doing what he wants. And, when this path begins, in which someone feels above the law and in the possibility to do what he wants and therefore not to respect the rules of civil coexistence, then you get to the final point, where: what harm is there if you do a chase? It was not the first time that a chase was carried out on the streets of the city, in which, in a sort of far west, we are chased to make a settlement of accounts; then a poor guy who was going to work that day leaves us skin. This is the final stage of a situation of illegality that continues over time, which has no restraint. The most serious thing that I am putting to your attention, gentlemen of the government, is that we have seen these gentlemen also given the houses of the people, as you also pointed out in your speech. In the City of Florence there is not only the problem of the nomadic camp of Poderaccio, because the city's municipal administrators have created a sort of branch of the nomadic camp. These gentlemen were photographed on social media while they were sitting on golden chairs and said that their job was to be a thief, they showed 50 euros tickets being usurers, because they have various criminal precedents, and the City of Florence gave him the folk houses. That's incredible! Faced with the fact that there are many families in my city, Florence, who ask for the popular house, who do not have a house, who have problems of eviction - just in these hours a family has turned to me, a sick husband and wife who are driven out of the house, and the municipality does not give him the accommodation, so the woman is taken to the institute and the husband on the other side - in front of this, do you give the house to these gentlemen with criminal precedents? Something's not working, something's wrong. I want to say to the Government - and we will be very careful in this regard - that you must intervene, beyond the statements of principle that you are doing in these days, on concrete facts. In the last parliamentary term, the centre-left passed the so-called prison laws. The last measures and implementing decrees were made by the Gentiloni Government Silveri even during the election campaign and provided impunity for many crimes that are charged to these subjects, so to cheat, rob and enter people's homes are no longer crimes that are served with prison and prison sentences, but with house arrests or custody in evidence and in Tuscany we have had situations of people stopped and brought before the judge for 200, 300 times and sent back to house arrests. The next day, they go out and do robberies. Stop! You have to put an end to this. We shall vote in favour of this if you take measures that are practical. That's enough: those who make mistakes have to pay and have to do it with prison if they go into a person's house to steal and it's like these gentlemen, who also had precedents. These problems must be stopped immediately: if you give the feeling of impunity, of the fact that someone can commit crimes, enter the house and steal, which is a very serious crime, and nobody does anything to him, in the end what happened with the young Duccio Dini, who lost his life that day, while he went to work. Everyone in Florence mourns him, the citizens and his family, and in my opinion it is a disgrace that could be avoided. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and L-SP groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u27	Following are questions 3-00031 and 3-00069 on the cultural bonus for eighteen-year-olds. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u28	Mr President, Senators, first of all I would like to thank Senators Malpezzi and Rampi for giving me the opportunity to share some information on the extension of the cultural bonus referred to in Law No 208 of 28 December 2015, and the effect caused by the decision of the Council of State of 15 June 2018, No 1546. We are talking about the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers concerning further amendments to the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers dated 15 September 2016, n. 187, already amended by the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 4 August 2017, n. 136, which, in short, extends the validity and effects of a rule, which was originally intended for those who turned 18 years in 2016-2017, also to young people who turn 18 years in 2018-2019. This standard complements the provisions relating to the time limits for the registration and use of the electronic card we are talking about, the cultural bonus, which originally concerned only those who were eighteen years old in 2016 and 2017. Following the opinion of the Council of State, some of the contents of the Stability Act are now contained in Section II of the Budget Act, in particular as regards the possibility of providing for refinancing, definancing and remodulation of the provisions laid down in existing legislation. These considerations did not convince the advisory body and, therefore, the possibility to extend to those who will turn 18 in 2018 and 2019 is not given. Just to compensate for the above-mentioned lack of legislation and allow the use of funds that have already been set aside and are in budget law, the extension of the cultural bonus for the years 2018 and 2019 will be regulated by special decree-law, which we will shortly send to the Council of Ministers. I provide some numbers to clarify what we're talking about. In the first year of life, 2016, the Ministry transferred to Consap 165 million euros against a financial coverage that for every year is 290 million euros, which means that in a year we have not used 125 million euros and, personally, I think this is a serious lack of use of public resources. For 2017 100 million euros have already been transferred - but the figure is still partial - and, despite this, I expect that most of the sums set aside will not be spent. How was this money spent? For 2017, 65 percent, that is almost two thirds, was destined to purchase books; 12 percent for recorded music; 10 percent for concerts; 9 percent for cinema; and 0.42 percent for culture, education, theatre, dance and museum visits. Without any controversy, I would like to remind you that the possibility of buying books was not originally provided for in the draft law, but was permitted by an amendment of the Movimento 5 Stars, of which the current Undersecretary Gianluca Vacca was the first signatory, which provided for the extension of the benefit to the purchase of books, what was originally not expected. Therefore, without this amendment of the Movimento 5 Stars, two thirds of the cultural bonus would not have been spent this year either. There remain concerns about the cultural bonus. I remember that this bonus has nothing structural, but it is decided year by year; it does not include premium measures and does not take into account the different situations of families. For this reason it is the understanding of this Ministry to prepare a structural programme for the promotion of cultural consumption, which combines projects for the dissemination of culture in schools with incentives for the purchase of products and services, starting from 2020. The cultural bonus will be re-modulated and corrected in order to plan long-term measures to stimulate the search for culture among young people, not only eighteen years old, and avoid the distortions that have occurred in the past. The preparation of the necessary changes will be provided by a dedicated committee of experts who, starting from the analysis of how the funds have been used and after having understood the needs of all the people and actors involved, will identify the necessary correctives to ensure the cultural bonus a fundamental role in the development of culture among young people. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u31	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, I thank the Minister for his reply, but I must say that I am not at all satisfied, because there is a cultural approach that you continue to reiterate, apart from the fact that this question was also made in the face of a number of your statements which had left us particularly perplexed, beyond the fact that they are statements from press sources, but of which we have not read the denial. You said that perhaps the bonus was consumed for alcohol and at other times you said that perhaps it was not necessary to guarantee the hunger for culture to our children, while we think that a state - it is a cultural vision, it is an approach - should instead push the consumption of cultural goods and access to culture. I was talking about settings that may be there, well: if you are going to make a measure structural to make sure that there is a chance to enjoy culture, it is good that this applies to everyone. I say this because it is not the first time that in his speeches, as he did in his hearing yesterday expressing his policy lines, he reiterates that it is necessary to consider the situation of families as well. It is not said that coming from a wealthy family is necessarily the key to getting a boy into culture. We believe that an approach that ensures that the State gives this right of cultural citizenship to our children is important. It is not necessary for the children to be at school, because you will clearly also have clear school dispersal data, which relate to children aged 16 and over. Do we want to say that if there are kids who don't go to school, we don't try to get them back because they don't go to school anyway? Instead, we guarantee them some more tools to drink and drink with all the opportunities of culture, which many of them have never seen because they live in particularly poor situations or in situations that are not economically distressed, but from other points of view. Then, Minister, we ask you for an extra effort, apart from what the Council of State has said, because we would have expected a circular to reaffirm the will of the legislator at the time, certainly no longer the Democratic Party, to expand the audience as much as possible. With respect to consumption, however, allow me: I hope you can work in the most serene way possible, however, when you want to apply such an important measure as the bonus culture or any other measure that will come out of your Ministry, remember that between being able to realize it and the phase of realization there is an abyss. We have tried experimentally to give a signal that would go in that direction, taking full account of the results and making some changes that have guaranteed children to give us further answers. That bonus is needed. If we want to make it a structural intervention, you will have us on your side. It is different if we want to start making a series of differences that do not take into account the importance of enjoying all that is cultural heritage and cultural experience, giving guarantees to our children according to our core element, so the investment of a euro in security had to correspond to that of a euro in culture because that is how security is created. This is the philosophy that was the basis of the 18app and the cultural bonus and this for us remains the interpretive key. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u34	RAMPI (PD). Mr President, Minister, I am partially satisfied for two reasons. The main reason is that you have made clear in this House the proximity of a decree-law to confirm what is now in the budget law. It is a change of course - as we recognised yesterday in the Commission - not only in relation to his statements, which, as declarations, can always have the time they find, but above all in discontinuity with the position of the forces that support this Government in the last parliamentary term, which were heavily opposed to this measure. Everything has been said about this measure: there has been talk of an electoral tip; you want to buy kids and so on. I believe that only the stupid do not change their minds and, therefore, I believe that it is a positive fact that there is a change of position on this, just as we too are willing and willing to change our position on certain aspects. If someone asked me the question: can you improve the 18app bonus? I'd say absolutely yes. You have made a point of comment on the resources that have advanced from year to year and, therefore, we certainly have as common objective not to advance these resources. For this reason, something must certainly be improved in the implementation of the measure. Then there is the second theme of the stabilisation of this measure. We have tried all three of the last budget laws and it is not easy, because we have to deal with the State Accounting and the resources available. We were able to extend it for three years. If we are discussing this today, it is because we have managed to find these funds and of course we will be, as Mrs Malpezzi said, absolutely from her own, if there is a possibility in the budget law to stabilize it forever, also because we would now consider an injustice that three generations of Italians, randomly born in a given year, have been able to take advantage of this and the subsequent ones, mysteriously, not. Therefore, let us lead it together, this battle. I'll come to another point. Surely the subject of school is important, but let us be careful not to confuse the two aspects. We have left her inherited a precious good and we have left her inherited even with the favorable vote or with a benevolent abstention of those who were then in the minority: the implementing decrees of the law on live entertainment. Among those implementing decrees and in that law there are dedicated resources to bring cultural activities and live entertainment to the school. It's a fundamental thing. The decrees expire and there is a concern about this deadline. You made a commitment yesterday to succeed in implementing them by December, and we will help you, if possible. We will also help you if you need a short extension, because we realize that we are not here to joke. It is a great opportunity for the country, but 18apps or any measure that works on the face of cultural demand is something different than what can be done at school. I tell you with my heart, I tell you this: often what they teach us in school we live in a preliminary way, as something that, coming from authority and institutions, we do not like. When we're kids, we're a bit like this, we're a bit rebellious, we want to choose us, and 18apps is the chance for kids to choose them, freely, without being judged. They chose a lot of books, it's a beautiful thing, but they could choose concerts, music, anything and this freedom is precious. And I come to the passage made by my colleague Malpezzi in his speech: let us really think, let us look ourselves in the eyes, let us do it as people before we do it as politicians. I was of the opinion that we should differentiate this intervention on the basis of the income of the families of origin; I changed my mind, because I am convinced that it is not said that a boy from a wealthy family has the support of wealthy parents for his cultural consumption, who perhaps go in a stubborn and contrary direction to what his parents believe. It is important then not to make a difference on eighteen-year-olds, because eighteen-year-olds are neither well-off nor in poverty: they are not yet in either of these two conditions and this is a great opportunity. I shall close, because I have run out of time, saying: let us take a short but intense time to deepen this measure and let us really become a point on which this Parliament makes a qualitative leap, overcoming the biases and the many clichés that I have heard too many times over the past three years. We make a great measure, worthy of the cultural greatness of this country. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u35	Question Time on the agenda is thus over. I thank the senators present for the novelty, because I assure you that in eight legislatures I had never attended a session of questions with a participation that really equals the total of thirty years. It was also a session held in a correct and polite way: who knows that this change does not start from the Senate institution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u36	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-07-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-20.ana.u37	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 12 July, at 3 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.32 p.m.
