ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.35 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Carossino, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 15 November. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u4	Colleagues, let me ask you for a moment of attention. I recall that today is the International Day for the Rights of Childhood and Adolescence.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u7	RONZULLI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the United Nations General Assembly approved the International Convention on the Rights of Children and Adolescence on 20 November 1989. Convention which is rightly considered to be the cornerstone for the protection of girls and children all over the world, as it is recognised as subjects of full rights. The Parliamentary Committee on Childhood and Adolescence, which I honour to chair, actually formed just last week, so for us there is no better opportunity than this anniversary to start our term of office. Every year, in memory of that historic moment, we celebrate, on 20 November, the International Children's Day, a symbolic date, which calls all of us citizens, but above all the legislator, to deal with what has been done in support and in defence of children and above all with what still needs to be done on the rights of children and adolescents, first of all the right to life, survival and development; but also the right of expression, participation, consideration and above all listening. What I would like to draw your attention to is, in particular, a principle enshrined in the Convention, which is all too often ignored, if not knowingly denied: that of the child's greater interest. I would stress in this House the importance of this principle, which should be the compass for directing the legislator's actions not only on family law, but whenever decisions are taken that will directly affect the lives of our children or grandchildren. What is good for our children? Are we sure that we are responding to their need, to contribute to their growth, to do, in other words, their interest? Much has been done by Parliament. I am thinking, for example, of the recent adoption of the cyberbullying law, but unfortunately this has not always been the case. You see, ladies and gentlemen, we have a great responsibility: through our interventions we help to train tomorrow's women and men and to build their future. I quote quickly only some data, unfortunately pitiful, that confirm us that Italy is not a country for young people. According to ISTAT, more than 450,000 were born in 2017; over 12% of Italian children and adolescents live in absolute poverty; the rate of school dispersal for young people aged 18 to 24 is 16%, still 4 percentage points higher than the European target, which stands at 10%. Data that must necessarily be approached, that photograph a bitter reality, that sees so many minors tied to the conditions of discomfort of their families, unable to emancipate from them, forced to leave school and to see denied their right to be children. [[Brusio]] Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but we are talking about children, a subject on which we must legislate, and keep talking. It's a good thing I talked about listening! [[Applause from the FI-BP, M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u8	, please, Senator Ronzulli, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u9	RONZULLI (FI-BP). We can and must do more to prevent similar situations in Italy, situations of childishness denied. The International Day for the Rights of Childhood and Adolescence must therefore be an additional occasion for reflection on a topic that affects society as a whole. My hope is that in this legislature there will be a responsible approach on the part of all parties, in a totally transversal way, without political color, starting from the various measures presented or already under consideration, so that the supreme interest of the child is placed before any logic that responds, instead, to the interest of adults. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u12	BINI (PD). Mr President, I would like to join in the speech by President Ronzulli to remind myself, on behalf of the Democratic Party, of the International Day for the Rights of Childhood and Adolescence. The hope is that the newly established Commission, but also all the other parliamentary committees and this House, will be able to work in an absolutely transversal way, overcoming the strong divisions that exist on many other issues, in order to guarantee the rights of the smallest, the most fragile. I hope that our voice will go above all to protect those children who have no voice and with greater difficulty. I think of the disabled, poor and sick children, those who do not have a roof under which to sleep at night. I think that we should think first of all of those who need a state and those who do not feel its protection; of those who are fragile and need the legislator to intervene to protect them and to make them feel that their rights are equal to those of others. When we are born and we are small, the differences do not exist. The differences, unfortunately, we learn them as adults and it is we who teach them to children. Children do not recognize the color of the skin, they do not see the differences of census, they do not see any difference or discrimination; they learn the differences only through adults. Here I think we would have a lot to learn from children in this and probably we should be able to, when we deal with children, but also when we deal with other things, to look at the world with the transparent eyes of a child, as a beautiful song said. Thank you all. [[Applause from the PD, FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u13	Since the examination of the tax decree and the draft law has not yet been completed, we shall proceed directly to the next item on the agenda, which is on the subject of ratifications of international agreements.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u14	The next item is the debate on draft law No 772. The working rapporteur, Senator Petrocelli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under consideration brings about the ratification of the Agreement signed in May 2017 between our country and Japan on the transfer of defence equipment and technology. The text reproduces the contents of the Senate Act 2971, examined by the Senate's Foreign Affairs Committee in December 2017, a measure that could not, however, complete its examination process due to the end of the legislature. The Agreement is made up of a preamble and seven articles and aims to establish the legal framework within which to consolidate cooperation on security and defence between the two countries, in particular to facilitate and develop the implementation of joint research and production projects, including for the benefit of national defence industries, within the framework of the common commitment to contribute to international peace and stability. The text in question, after having stated the purposes of the agreement, establishes a Joint Committee to define the nature of the equipment and defence technology which may be the subject of any transfers and provides for the obligation for the parties to use the equipment exchanged in strict compliance with the principles of the United Nations Charter, also prohibiting the transfer to third parties without the prior consent of the party who originated the transfer. The subsequent Articles govern the processing of classified information and documents, specify that the measures of the Agreement and of those resulting from it will be implemented in accordance with the national laws and budgetary appropriations of each Party, define the arrangements for resolving any interpretative or application disputes and state the provisions relating to the entry into force, the possible amendment and the denunciation of the text. With regard to the draft ratification law, it consists of five articles, which provide respectively for the authorisation of ratification, order of implementation, financial provisions, the clause of financial invariance and the entry into force. Finally, with regard to economic charges, the draft law calculates them in 4.529 euros every other year from 2018, due only to the mission expenses of the representatives of the Defense for their participation in the meetings of the Joint Committee in Japan. The Budget Commission, when formulating an opinion on the measure under consideration, based it on the assumption that any future burden arising from the implementation of the Agreement will be met through appropriate legislative measures. Evidence, finally, as the Agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, nor with the Community law and other international obligations entered into by our country. With this in mind, I propose the adoption of the bill by the Assembly. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u16	I greet, on behalf of the Assembly, the teachers and students of the Technical Institute for Economic and Technical Studies (Filippo Palizzi) in Vasto, in the province of Chieti, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u17	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u20	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, we will vote strongly in favour of ratification of our examination, which is an important work done by the previous government on two occasions: in 2016 and then, with the visit of the Minister protempore Pinotti to Tokyo, on an important mission that has confirmed a qualitative leap in relations, from the point of view of defence, between Japan and Italy. I want to highlight two important aspects: this is an agreement that has been made in the framework of collaboration with NATO, therefore in full respect of our international agreements and the Charter of the United Nations, and not only has to do with the exchange of information and collaboration between the systems of defence of Japan and our country, but it inserts a framework of reference for collaboration in the industrial field for our companies of national defence that have a heritage of professionalism, experience and excellence and a presence abroad already very widespread. They do so within a framework of cooperation from the point of view of the transfer of defence equipment and military technology. From this point of view, we salute him. Ratification has nothing to do with the promotion of more arms sales abroad; we know that there are very strict regulations from this point of view. This is an issue that we have also addressed within the Commission, where there had been a misunderstanding, in particular with the Movimento 5 Star Group, which asked to slow down with respect to ratification, but then fortunately it resolved and we were able to proceed. It is an agreement that must also take into account the changed geopolitical conditions compared to the past of the area in which Japan is located. Japan in its statute, after the tragic events of the Second World War, has defined itself as a pacifist state and has built a system of alliances similar to that which, like Europe, we have built towards the United States, but this system of alliances today encounters some criticalities compared to the past, especially between Japan and China in the South and Western Chinese Sea, where there are disputed islands between the two States. Then there is the attitude of the United States, which has changed from the previous administrations, both Bush and Obama; there is the new protectionist policy, duties and openness towards North Korea. Despite the fact that he has always been an ally of the United States (the relationship between Shinzo Abe and previous leaders has always been very strong), with the new US policy Japan needs to feel reassured and to build wider alliances with Europe, with NATO more generally and, within the collaboration with European countries, a special relationship with our country. This opens up important areas of collaboration for our military industry and the defence system in general. It is pleased that the Government has immediately wanted, starting from last July, to re-produce the treaty under consideration and continue the work done by Minister Pinotti, so today we firmly say yes to this treaty and we hope that it will be an opportunity in more positive collaboration with a country like Japan, with which we already have excellent relations. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u23	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are about to vote to ratify a long-awaited Agreement by the parties, an agreement of strategic importance for the Italian industry, on the transfer of equipment and advanced technology in the defence sector. This Agreement is part of a collaboration process started in 2012, with the signing of a declaration of intent between their respective Defence Ministers, which established the common intention to initiate a bilateral dialogue in the military field and which led to the drafting, of a memorandum of understanding between the two Ministries on cooperation and exchanges in the field of their competence, in order to improve mutual understanding on military and security policy issues. Specifically, the Agreement consists of seven articles, preceded by a brief preamble recalling the entry into force, in 2016, of another Agreement between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of Japan concerning the security of information, as well as the Cooperation Programme concluded between Japan and NATO in 2014. In particular, the two countries intend to facilitate and develop the implementation of joint research and production projects, also for the benefit of their defence industries. The Agreement has been concluded in full respect of Article 11 of the Constitution: our country, in fact, is part of the common commitment to contribute to peace and international stability and in strict respect of the principles of the United Nations Charter. Cooperation aims to enhance technical-industrial relations with a country, Japan, the third economic power of the planet, with which we boast strong cultural ties and of great economic and technological importance. In view of this collaboration, and in strict compliance with the provisions of our law, including the rules and procedures regarding the export of weapons materials referred to in law n. 185 of 1990 and article 537-b of the code of military order and regulation referred to in decree of the President of the Republic n. 104 of 2015, will be allowed to the Ministry of Defence, in agreement with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to carry out technical-administrative support activities aimed at promoting, by the Japanese Government, the acquisition of defence materials produced by our national industry. The signing of the Agreement will also facilitate the establishment of partnerships in the sector, including in the direction of third country markets. The Agreement with a country located in an area of the Pacific subject to profound geopolitical transformations is of particular importance to Italy's interests. For these reasons, I announce the vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u26	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, the Agreement with the Japanese Government is particularly important, because it aims to lay the foundations for Italian-Japanese cooperation in the exchange of defence equipment and technology. As my colleague explained earlier, the text of the Agreement does not specifically determine transfers, but acts as a framework for future exchanges, which will be agreed between the parties. In addition, its implementation will enable support to be given to national defence industries, facilitating the creation of industrial partnerships also towards third countries. This is a very important point. In fact, it is useless to hide that only through cooperation with peaceful countries such as Japan is it possible to increase our ability to choose the interlocutors in a complex sector such as that of arms transfers and, in some cases, to be able to say no to some states or to some organizations that we may consider untrustworthy. In this Agreement two are the most important elements: the first, the creation of a Joint Committee in order to define the nature of the equipment and defence technology to be transferred, which allows our Ministry of Defence to better adapt the current projects, whose composition, as you know, is the guarantor of the interests of the respective Ministries of Defence. The second important point, Article 3 - let me say - is of particular importance, as it makes explicit reference to compliance with international law, binding the parties to use defence equipment and technology, possibly exchanged in accordance with the principles of the United Nations Charter and the additional purposes specified in the agreement authorising the transfer. Moreover, it prohibits the transfer to third parties of the right of ownership or possession of the materials subject to transfer without the prior consent of the sender, in accordance with our law n. 185 of 1990, which, although it has not always prevented sales at least immoral, still represents a point of reference at international level. Japan, as we all know, is a peaceful country, and cooperation in this case has the sole purpose of strengthening and improving the defense of the country against possible threats, not of being employed in some humanitarian war, as is said today. This is why we do not have to fear, on the basis of the information in our possession, also starting from the recent history of the country and the balance of the forces in the field, that these technologies and the effects that will result can be used to harm other countries or to violate human rights. In conclusion, I believe that this is a very beneficial agreement for both parties. In fact, both Italy and Japan represent two points of reference in the research and development of new technologies, in civil and military fields. For the above reasons and for the strategic interest of our defence and our country, I declare to the Assembly the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Star Group on the ratification of the Agreement for the transfer of equipment and defence technology with Japan. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u29	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, all my colleagues have already been very good and clear, so I just want to join them and say that I share the fact that we have a special partnership with Japan, and I am pleased with the Government that I have brought the measure to the attention of the Senate for approval - I am addressing Mr Picchi. It's good because we couldn't keep Japan waiting anymore. This Agreement is part of a piece of relations that we have with this country, which - let us not forget this - while being so far away from us, is a country with which we have many things in common; it is the most consolidated democracy of that part of the East. I think that in this term of office, in this parliamentary term, we should do everything we can to bring Italy's and Japan's policies closer and closer together, which is why I am going to vote in favour of the ratification measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u30	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u33	MINUTE (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like you to stick to the acts that I have not been able to vote on. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u34	The next item is the debate on draft law No 659. The rapporteur, Senator Ferrara, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u35	Mr President, the Assembly is called upon to examine the draft law, of parliamentary initiative, ratifying and implementing the Agreement on Cultural Cooperation and Education signed by Italy and Montenegro in April 2014. As can be seen from the introductory report, the text before our examination proposes, albeit partially and limited only to the Agreement with Montenegro, the bill of ratification of numerous bilateral international agreements proposed by the Government during the XVII legislature (Act of Senate 2813) which, presented on 4 May 2017, was examined by the Commission for Foreign Affairs, emigration of the Senate on 28 June 2017, without being able to complete its parliamentary examination process for the end of the legislature. I recall that Montenegro, a country of about 700,000 inhabitants, close between the Western Balkans and the Mediterranean, became independent in 2006, and since then, strong of a progressive improvement of the living conditions of its inhabitants and of the prospects for further economic development that could result from it, it has started with determination on the way to European and Atlantic integration. The path towards the European Union, following the de facto adoption of the euro as its currency, officially began in 2008 with the submission of the application for accession, followed by the opening of the relevant negotiations in 2012. To date, out of a total of 35 negotiating chapters, 31 have been opened, three of which have already been provisionally concluded. Montenegro also considers Italy as an essential reference point for its approach to the European Union, also because of the strong cultural links between the two countries. Cultural and educational cooperation therefore plays a key role in strengthening bilateral relations. The main aim of this Agreement is indeed to consolidate and harmonise existing cultural links and mutual understanding, while at the same time providing an effective response to the strong demand for Italian culture and language in Montenegro. The measure, in particular, which consists of a preamble and eighteen articles, in addition to promoting and promoting initiatives and collaborations in the artistic-cultural field, through the organization of events, as well as cooperation at university and school level, allowing the offer of scholarships will facilitate cooperation also in the conservation, protection, restoration and valorization of the artistic and demo-ethno-anthropological heritage, with particular attention to the protection of the archaeological heritage, also contrasting the illicit transfers of cultural assets. The Agreement, which also provides for close cooperation in the fields of archives and libraries, information, publishing, sports activities and youth exchanges, will also be a valuable tool for the protection of copyright and related rights, in accordance with international and national standards. The draft ratification law consists of five articles which have, respectively, the authorisation to ratify, the order of execution, the financial commitments, the clause of financial invariance and the entry into force. The economic burden resulting from the implementation of the measure is estimated at a total of EUR 160,000 for each of the years 2018 and 2019, and at EUR 163,760 from the year 2020. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u36	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u39	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, the vote of the Democratic Party Group on this draft ratification law will be in favour, as the agreement contained in it represents the conclusion of a path, undertaken in the last parliamentary term, and of a united path between Italy and Montenegro. The rapporteur has said some important things about the relationship between Italy and Montenegro, a country that in recent years is taking a very important and almost an example because, after having been the protagonist of independence from Serbia without firing a single blow (therefore an almost unique example in the Balkans in the history of the last centuries), he has then undertaken with great determination the path of integration in Europe in various respects, from the most comprehensive of defence, with the entry into NATO, to the economic, cultural and social one represented by the path of integration in the European Union. The sense of this desire to enter Europe was given immediately because, as soon as it became independent, Montenegro adopted the euro. This was therefore a strong signal of wanting to go in the direction of European integration. There is often talk of enlargement of the Union, but one aspect must be considered. We want to extend the Union not to Eurosceptic countries, but to countries that believe in the European Union and Montenegro has given us this great example, this great testimony of conviction. Moreover, within the Balkan balance, Montenegro's choice was not easy, but opposed and also had internal repercussions, especially in relations with other neighbouring countries. I would also like to stress that Montenegro has also taught us a great deal about recent history, because when the Kosovo crisis occurred, it has welcomed tens of thousands of refugees from that country on its territory and all this has done so with a great sense of solidarity and willingness. Finally, the third thing I want to stress is linked to Italy's interests towards the Balkan peninsula. If there is a propensity for Italy to have an economic influence on an important region of Europe, this region can undoubtedly be the Balkan peninsula and Montenegro is an important point of reference because, from a cultural and historical point of view, it has had links with our country since the time of the Kingdom of Italy thanks to Queen Elena, for example. It is a story still alive in Montenegro that sees Italy, from a cultural point of view, as a reference point. The draft law of ratification that we are about to approve goes precisely in the direction of strengthening the cultural links between Italy and Montenegro. I believe that this is important to stress. I leave aside other aspects that have come in time, such as the links born on the subject of clean energy. We must not forget, in fact, that in Montenegro there has been an important investment linked to the transfer of electricity produced from the water basins. I am referring to Terna's investment, which allows today, through a cable, the electricity connection between the Adriatic and Montenegro. I have left out many other aspects, but I would like to point out the importance for us Italians and Italy to maintain a strong bond with Montenegro, a country that has proved to be the leader of a path in the Balkan peninsula absolutely not easy, or banal or obvious; a path that Montenegro is carrying on with force. There are other states in the Balkan peninsula that are far behind, living contrasts within them. Let us think of Bosnia and Herzegovina or Macedonia, whose stories are much more complex and complicated. Montenegro gives us the opportunity to establish - I believe - positive relations within the Balkan peninsula. Many other aspects of the same peninsula, not least those related to the movements of refugees and other realities within the Balkan area, can pose risks for Europe. We must not forget, in fact, that there are religious tensions. I believe, therefore, that for our country to conclude in this legislature the commitment to Montenegro is important, after all the road made in the XVII legislature, because it shows that Italy's foreign policy towards the Balkans is conducted, beyond the color of governments, following a straight line and a shared direction, in order to give life to further relations and to create those bridges today increasingly necessary. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u42	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the entry into force of this Agreement, the Cultural Agreement between the Italian Republic and the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which was signed in Rome on 3 December 1960, will completely lapse. This Agreement is the legal basis necessary to launch initiatives and projects for cultural exchange between our countries and implements the Cultural Cooperation and Education Agreement signed by Italy and Montenegro in April 2014. Many things have been said - I will not repeat them - about the importance of this Agreement. I would like to stress that Italy, however, has strong cultural reasons and links with this country and is an essential point of reference for the path towards the European Union of Montenegro. The main aim of this Agreement, in compliance with national legislation, European law and international commitments undertaken by Italy, is in fact precisely to consolidate and increase these links. There has just been talk of measures promoting initiatives at university and school level, the provision of scholarships, the dissemination of Italian language and culture in Montenegrin schools and universities: these are extremely important aspects. In conclusion, this Agreement provides for close cooperation also in the fields of archives, information and publishing, also representing a valid tool also for the protection of copyright, so much awaited by our entrepreneurs. For these reasons, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, I voted in favour. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u45	PACIFIC (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Italy and Montenegro have been indissolubly linked by common cultural roots for over two thousand years. Already the Roman Empire, for about five hundred years, had annexed Montenegro to the Urban. I would be very long if I listed, in a very long time space, the link between the two countries, but to better photograph the recent history I go directly to the last century, when relations strengthened further, with the marriage of Vittorio Emanuele III, king of Italy, and Princess Elena of Montenegro. This millennial friendship was not interrupted even in the two years 1918-1920, when Italy, the only European country, opposed the cancellation of the independence of Montenegro. The cultural proximity was even more effervescent under the Tito regime. Only with the crushing of Yugoslavia did relations see a blur, mostly caused by the strong pressure of the European Chancellors, who mistakenly aimed at a privileged axis with Belgrade. For a few years almost all of the international community has considered Montenegro, including the rulers, as a country dedicated to cigarette smuggling and shelter of many Italian criminals. For this reason the then head of the government was also investigated, Djukanovic and in fact many Italian prosecutors enrolled him in the register of the suspects. The course of the investigative activity then demonstrated the alienity to the facts, but it was acclaimed that actually the coasts of Montenegrin were used as operating platform by the Balkan smugglers and the Italian mafia. Today that tobacco route appears to be completely dismantled, but some careful political observer has moved to say that Djukanovic's investigations were only formidable accusations to discredit the new Montenegrin government, guilty of having deviated too far from Belgrade. In essence, millennia of friendship and cultural exchanges were burned in a decade of political blindness and I would say of little realism. Since June 3, 2006, Montenegro has become an independent, internationally recognised state, and since 2017 it has been the twenty-ninth member of NATO, a firmly stable country, with an expanding economy, both in terms of tourism and infrastructure. It cannot escape that that country today offers important possibilities for investment in road infrastructure and for the railway network. Even the tourism enhancement could seem convenient for Italian investors, considering that the country is still little known. In fact, only 2% of tourists visiting the Adriatic State come from Italy. I refer to these aspects well knowing that the Agreement which is being ratified provides for cultural cooperation and education, but precisely for this reason they cannot be untied with all the agreements which inevitably will be intertwined. For all these aspects, the ratification and implementation of the Agreement of cultural cooperation and education between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of Montenegro, signed in Rome on 15 April 2014, will be prodromic with respect to future and beneficial relations. Therefore, the Movimento 5 Stars can only vote in favour. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u46	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u47	The next item is the debate on draft law No 676. The rapporteur, Senator Ferrara, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u48	Mr President, the House is called upon to examine the draft law, of parliamentary initiative, ratifying and implementing the Agreement on cultural, scientific and technological cooperation signed by Italy and Laos in February 2003. The Agreement, composed of thirteen articles, aims to develop bilateral collaboration relationships, and to consolidate and deepen mutual knowledge, while providing a response to the growing demand for culture, science and technology emerging in the Asian country, but offering us the opportunity to broaden our economic and cultural horizons also in Asia, not only when it comes to delocalizing Italian companies. In particular, the Agreement, having established the general principles of mutual support and cultural, scientific and technological cooperation to which cooperation should be based, affirms the will of the two parties to support the development of cultural cooperation activities through exchanges of artists, experts, researchers and exhibitions, and also fostering exchanges of knowledge and experience in updating and training in the fields of information, translations and publications in the scientific and literary fields. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u49	The Group of Brothers of Italy seems too noisy. I call on colleagues to lower their voices, thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u50	Mr Ferrara, rapporteur. Thank you, Mr President, there was indeed a buzz. The text also provides for scientific and technological cooperation activities to be carried out through the exchange of scientists and technicians, the organisation of conferences, seminars and other events, as well as through joint research projects, training activities and professional updating. The Agreement also aims to promote collaboration in the archaeological and anthropological fields in order to safeguard the archaeological and cultural heritage, as well as cooperation in the field of secondary, vocational and post-secondary education and between the respective academic institutions, as well as to provide, within the limits of the availability of funds, for the provision of scholarships for students and graduates for studies and research at university, post-university or other academic institutions in the field of fine arts, archaeology and linguistics. The draft law before our examination proposes, albeit partially and limited only to the Agreement of cultural, scientific and technological cooperation with Laos, the text of ratification proposed by the Government during the XVII legislature which, presented on 4 May 2017, was examined by the Commission for Foreign Affairs, emigration of the Senate on 28 June 2017, but did not see completed its examination process, although the Commission had done its utmost to approve dozens of agreements of military cooperation with states often at war or at the borders of major conflicts, still in progress, and on which I believe it is necessary to return to verify compatibility with Law No 185 of 1990. The draft ratification law consists of five articles which have, respectively, the authorisation to ratify, the order of execution, the financial provisions, the clause of financial invariance and the entry into force. Mr President, I believe that our country can finally give rise to a new form of relationship that goes beyond the limits of neo-colonialism, especially with those countries that have experienced the tragedy of colonialism and war. I remember that Laos is a South-East Asian country of over 6 million inhabitants, without access to the sea and that it develops along the Mekong River, in a geographical area of the Indochinese peninsula narrow between Vietnam, Cambodia, Thailand, Myanmar and China. French protected since 1893, independent from 1954, Laos has suffered heavily the aggression of the United States in Vietnam: on Laos between 1964 and 1973 two million tons of explosive devices were dropped and still today there are about 80 million bombs to defuse that continue to reap victims between people and animals. It is thought that even today, every year more than 300 people are victims of these explosions, half of them die and most of them are children. The People's Democratic Republic, from December 1975 with a socialist regime, after the collapse of the Soviet Union, the country remained isolated for some years, both physically and politically, until 1997, when it opted for membership of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), starting on the path of full regional and international integration. Since 2013 he has officially joined the World Trade Organisation. The country has a predominantly rural economy and boasts a great availability of watercourses, conditions that could favor agricultural cooperation with Italy and give additional economic outlets for our agricultural enterprises, which live a very strong economic crisis. Other sectors on which fruitful collaborations could be born are those hydroelectric and mining, real flywheels of the national economy, also thanks to foreign direct investment coming in particular from China and Australia. Promoting the preservation and recovery of cultural heritage, cultural growth and training, and improving agricultural capacities represent a new and alternative way of dealing with these countries and I am convinced that the fruits of this Agreement will be mutual. Needless to hide that Italy is experiencing a strong crisis of international isolationism, which favours our historical partners, but completely ignores the new opportunities that multilateralism has created, especially in Asia. For these reasons, I would ask my colleagues to support this agreement by voting in favour. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u51	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u54	Mr Giacobbe (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Laos is a South-East Asian country with over 6 million inhabitants, without access to the sea and which develops along the Mekong River, in a geographical area of the Indochinese peninsula between Vietnam, Cambodia, Thailand, Myanmar and China. Laos was a French protectorate since 1893 and became independent in 1954. In December 1975 he became a People's Democratic Republic and since 1997 he joined the Association of South-East Asian Nations, starting on the path of full regional and international integration. Since 2013, Laos has officially become part of the World Trade Organisation, with a predominantly rural economy that boasts a great availability of watercourses, conditions - these - that could also promote agricultural cooperation with Italy and give additional economic outlets to our agricultural enterprises. With the bill that we are going to vote on, the process of ratification of the Agreement for cultural, scientific and technological cooperation between Italy and Laos begins. This ratification aims to develop the relations of collaboration between the two countries and that is why the Democratic Party is in favour. Prioritising the policy of international cooperation agreements to facilitate economic and cultural exchange, environmental protection and exchange of technology is a very good thing. I think it is a good way to bring development to Italy, but it is not enough on its own. In fact, we must work - also and above all - on a foreign and economic development policy that aims much more at the internationalization of Italy in the world. The agreements are the first step. For a country that wants to define itself as civil and look in a positive spirit to the future, international cooperation with developing countries, at all levels, is an opportunity to address the world and open its borders. As the text that we are about to approve, we are also trying to provide a response to the growing demand for culture, science and technology in Laos: a request from Italy, in a few words, because everywhere in the world Italy represents culture, development and excellence and allows our country to discover new horizons. Cultural cooperation contrasts stereotypes and prejudices through dialogue and open-mindedness. Culture can and must be a tool to produce important social and economic benefits within and outside a country. Culture is a driver of economic growth not only in its traditional forms, but also thanks to the growing number of companies promoting cultural initiatives, technological innovation and tourism, typical activities of small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why resources for cultural promotion are not an expense, but an investment that favours all economic sectors of a country. Therefore, we place culture at the heart of our country's international relations and as long as this remains the road that Italy follows, we of the Democratic Party will always be in favour. Mr President, I should like to conclude by wishing that, together with the implementation of this Agreement, economic interchange initiatives are being promoted, including in the form of partnership and joint projects, which are useful for the socio-economic development of Laos and the opening up of new market opportunities for Italy. Finally, I declare the Democratic Party's vote firmly in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u57	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Agreement signed in Bangkok on 17 February 2003 is intended to strengthen cooperation between Italy and the Democratic People's Republic of Laos, especially in the cultural, scientific and technological fields, also encouraging university cooperation, with the aim of strengthening bilateral relations and, at the same time, providing a response to the growing demand of the Asian country in these areas. The priority areas covered by the Agreement are basic science, agriculture, information technology, biomedicine, biotechnology, energy and the preservation of cultural heritage. It represents an opportunity for Italy to broaden its economic and cultural horizons in Asia. In particular, the Agreement affirms the will of both parties to support the development of cultural cooperation activities through exchanges of artists, experts and researchers and the organisation of events and exhibitions. The ratification will certainly facilitate exchanges of experience and updates in the field of scientific and literary publications and translations. We therefore consider it important, for the growth of our country in South-East Asia, to implement this Agreement, aimed at economic and cultural development and useful for the promotion of Italian small and medium-sized enterprises. Since 1997 Laos has opted for membership of the South-East Asian Association of Nations, starting on the path of full international integration; since 2013 it has officially joined the World Trade Organisation. Its predominantly rural economy, which has a high availability of water resources, could promote agricultural cooperation with Italy and offer additional economic outlets to businesses in the sector. Also the hydroelectric and mining sectors, if you consider the raw materials of which the country is rich (in particular gold, tin, copper, limestone and plaster), could create profitable collaborations with our companies. I am pleased that this House, in the field of international policy, has shown full cohesion, in the obviously unique interest of our Italy. For these reasons, as already pointed out in the Commission, I am voting in favour of the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u60	PACIFIC (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, as the Thai Prime Minister Chatichai Choonhavan hoped, synthesizing the future economic structure of Laos and the whole region: from a battlefield to a market. We are talking about the years between 1995 and 1997, when Vietnam and the Democratic People's Republic of Laos entered fully into the Association of South-East Asian Nations, an association characterized by high political heterogeneity of the acceding countries, but nevertheless united by a common vision of the markets, although Laos continues to have a form of orbiting government on a single party, which recalls, not only in the name, communism. But the East and the Far East have become accustomed to new forms of government. It is not daring to define, even if on a minor infinitesimal scale, the political-institutional structure of Vientiane similar to that of Beijing. The opening-up to markets is undeniable and has led to significant growth results. Between 1985 and 2017, GDP grew ten times, from US$1 700 million to US$17 billion. Translated in terms of income per capita, it has increased from 432 to 1,730 dollars. The estimates of the Economist Intelligence Unit also provide for important growth margins for the coming years. The important trend, however, must not obscure the necessary and lack of transition to a plural government. While the current system leads to high stability and therefore growth, it also produces a worrying degree of corruption. Not for nothing Trasparency international ranks Laos in 135th place in the world as an indicator of perceived corruption. However, it must be acknowledged that the Laotian leadership, in the last congress of the party held in January 2016, has elected the fight against corruption as an absolute priority. The cultural, political and economic strengthening with Italy, through the ratification of the Agreement that we are dealing with today, I believe can facilitate that democratic transformation that we all want. For this reason, the Movimento 5 Stars vote in favour of the ratification and enforcement of bill 676 concerning the Agreement on cultural, scientific and technological cooperation between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Laos, signed in Bangkok on 17 February 2003. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u61	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, I inform you that the Conference of Leaders is convened tomorrow at 6 p.m. Tomorrow's day will be mainly dedicated to the work of the Commissions. The Assembly will therefore meet again tomorrow at 6.30 p.m. on the President's agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u65	SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent days Parma, my home town, has been the subject of acts that I think deserve... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u66	I'm sorry to interrupt, partner. Obviously there may be those who are not interested in the topics discussed. I invite you to leave without disturbing the House. Anyone who remains is asked to listen to the speeches.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u67	Please, Senator Saponara, I'll give you your time from the beginning. SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, in recent days Parma, my home town, has been the subject of acts which I think deserve the proper attention of the institutions and of this House. The walls of one of the buildings housing the university, advertising planks and facades of private buildings have been badly smashed by writings with insults addressed to the Forces of Order, called contemptuously cops, and against Salvini and Di Maio, our Vice Premier, and Senator Pillon, declaring feelings of hatred towards them. Let us move from Parma to Rome where in this same Chamber, a few days ago, a senator of the opposition intervened by defining as harmful acts of freedom of expression and opinion the necessary controls by the Forces of the Order implemented against the demonstrators who arrived in Rome Saturday, November 10 and against a woman who, surprised to publicly insult Vice Prime Minister Salvini, was brought to the police for refusing to perform the documents required of her. Controls that for a certain part of the opposition were finally prompted for a question to the Ministry of the Interior, urged to clarify what I would simply define actions of prevention of the Forces of the Order to ensure security in the conduct of the demonstration. In view of what has been reported, it seems to me that the much invoked freedom of thought and of manifestation is understood in a single sense and that those who do not adapt to a goodist, permissive and laxist thought are automatically branded in a negative and defined fascist, xenophobic, racist and hateful fomenter. I feel for this reason to condemn the incessant writings on the walls of Parma, the result of an address of thought that leads to see who wants to bring back a bit of order and dignity in this country in a negative way and, on the other hand, as a victim who is actually fomenting hatred against the institutions and forces of order. The fact that the above-mentioned demonstration has been defined by the same political side in this anti-racist Assembly and against the new immigration rules says a lot. Honestly on the part of those in this House who have called for freedom of expression and thought in the name of our democracy, I would like to hear words of firm condemnation of these gestures that are being repeated more and more, not only in Parma, but in many other cities of ours; as in Monza, where we read that killing Salvini is not a deed, with two "t". Unfortunately, it is disheartening to note that those who continue the good thinking, permissive and laxist tend to defend only their rights, invoking the Constitution and condemning precisely who this Constitution has defended it, is defending it and giving it back the right honor. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u69	You have the right to do so. Get your colleague's extra time.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u70	PEPE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I want to speak from this House and this Assembly of Tempa Rossa, a giant oil field that has been built in Basilicata, in particular in Corleto Perticara in the province of Potenza. The "Sun 24 Hours" speaks of it as follows: There below, in the Red Tempa field, is the wrath of oil and methane. I add that there is also a beheaded mountain, a torch 130 meters high, 840 million barrels estimated downwards, 15,000 barrels a day from a single oil well that is already ready to be started and another 60,000 barrels a day from all other oil wells. To this I add the risks to health and the environment. This is Red Tempa. Despite this, on October 31, 2010, 200 workers, almost all Lucan, lost their jobs and at December 31, 2018, about 600 other people will lose their jobs, because Total, or who for her, said that it is not necessary that those who make the pizzeria do also pizzaiolo. Therefore, these people, young people who have rocked the dream of staying in Basilicata, fathers of family who have rocked the dream of giving a future to their children, will be forced, if Total does not change register, to lose a job, despite Total has assumed the formal commitment to train these workers and therefore start them not only to build the oil field, but also to its management. In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a social battle that must be fought with workers, among workers, but not in the indifference of the institutions, for a simple principle: if the risks are borne by the Lucanians, the opportunities must be in favour of the Lucanians. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u71	I address the greetings of the entire Assembly to a representation of students of the Liceo Scientifico (Liceo Scientifico), Mantova (Liceo Scientifico), and to the participants of the initiative "Cittadini novelli," active and aware of them coming from Trentino. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u74	PAPATHEU (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to speak at the end of the sitting on this day, which we all celebrate. And I am glad that colleagues from the 5 Star Movement and colleagues from the League are present, to whom the message is addressed. I have had the opportunity these days, like all of us, to participate in the process that took place here in this House, where we have all set a wrong example. Therefore, I would like to draw all of us to a behaviour which, apart from rights and change, cannot ignore education. Unfortunately, in the last days, for exaltation and for a heated confrontation on the decree Genoa, we have witnessed behaviors that surely these boys, that we defend and for which we are called to build present and future, have seen and have commented negatively, each in his own rooms. I wish my colleagues in the League, who will soon start work in the Commission on the protection of human rights, the same model of integration that they have with my colleague Tony Iwobe, who is here in this House; and I hope that the model of a racist Leghistic party, which I do not believe is in their DNA or in their intentions, will not pass. Therefore, I call everyone, first of all, to a behavior that is appropriate and of example, because we are all, as you know, of public evidence. The children who are here must see us, therefore, not chewing gum like goats, especially when they come to relate to Members of Parliament. Above all, we must also be careful to look into the eyes of the person to whom the word is addressed: even if the Minister, of course, being part of this Government of change, knows everything and did not feel or did not have the sensitivity, to comply with the rules despite the repeated calls of President Casellati. I invite all of us, first of all, to be respectful of the rules. Above all, let me remind you that, before the rights, we must have duties towards these children, transferring them models of behavior that are also an example for all of us. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u77	BERTACCO (FdI). Mr President, I wanted and should have done this a while ago. Since, however, I am normally an optimist, I hoped for repentance or repentance, but this was not there. Therefore, making this intervention today, on the day of children's rights and adolescence, is particularly important and a source of reflection for everyone. I read a brief reflection, which I wrote with Maria Fiore Adami, President of the Verona Social Services Commission, and which reads as follows: To ask forgiveness is to return the place to the other. Give him the right to exist. Katherine Pancol's phrase wants to be an invitation to the political comedian and mentor Grillo to apologize to all families and communities who are committed to creating a society in which children suffering from the pathology of the autistic spectrum feel accepted and cared for. To those who present themselves as the deus ex machina of a new policy based on transparency, legality and the result of a direct democracy, I say and remember that these are based on respect. Respect must start with words and words often hurt indeliblely. With his curtain, Grillo offended thousands of boys and their families, with the will to solicit a laugh. He forgot that to listen to him there was a community of people who live every day with the effort to remove the stigma of these boys and with the commitment to integrate them into a world that treats them as different; a world that, thanks to people like you, dear Grillo, raises walls and marginalizes them. I ask you to have respect for the people who live with this disoriented pathology, who are lost in an alternative world to which support, care and hospitality must be offered. Political life is precisely for those who love to be with other people, not above, not near or, worse, elsewhere, because you have to be elsewhere with your heart to have the arrogance to joke about people's lives. I wonder, dear Grillo, who will be the next to be stigmatized by you? She, who is the theorist of democracy at all costs, we wait for her while she silently embraces a child suffering from any pathology: that she tears away that bitter and contemptuous smile that frames her face while doing her meetings and transforms it into something more human, perhaps a tear of emotion. Respect starts with words, Mr. Grillo, but since you are a magician of words, you show by the facts that there is a shred of shame in you. In words and in an act of excuse the dignity of man can be realized. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u78	Senator Bertacco, thank you for your words.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u81	GAUDIANO (M5S). Mr President, senators, the plan to reorder the health of the Campania Region has confirmed the closure of the maternity department of the hospitals in Polla and Sapri, small centres in the province of Salerno. If this closure were to be confirmed, it would be a further blow for these territories that are already experiencing situations of discomfort and isolation. The air of one's own land and the first wandering that wants and must be liberated where one's roots are must constitute that invisible thread to which to remain indissolubly bound throughout life. All this sounds like a sinister viaticus; that is: prepare yourselves to leave your land, your loved ones, your affections and your roots even before you are born, because here there is no present and no future. It is not enough, Mr President, that the natural depopulation of these territories is enough, but adding the denied possibility of being born in the places where we live is really too much. In the province of Salerno there are villages that are ancient pearls, authentic treasures of history, culture, millenarian traditions, set in a marine landscape and mountain at the same time, that leave, in those who have the pleasure of visiting them and living them, even for a short time, sensations that will never forget. We do not seek specific or guilty faults. We want the right to be born into public structures to be guaranteed and safeguarded equally and to a large extent throughout the national territory. For these reasons, the Movimento 5 Stars wants to demonstrate its closeness and support to the future moms and to the entire population of the Vallo di Diano, so that this measure is lifted as soon as possible. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u84	ROMANO (M5S). Mr President, on the evening of Friday 16 November last, together with the Regional Councillor Casili, the City Councillor Valente and a group of activists and sympathizers, I was present at the Meetup 5 Stars in Lecce, to present the non-party initiative Trees for the future, when two hooded men broke in throwing eggs filled with paint on the walls and flyers No TAP on the floor. Given the dynamics of the gesture, the intent was probably only intimidating and aimed at producing exclusively material damage. However, someone could have seriously hurt themselves if the paint sketches had ended up in their eyes and not just on their clothes. What hurts most is not so much the walls to be repainted or the clothes to throw away, but precisely those sketches, which are born from far away and which should stain deep down the souls and consciences of some rather than others, when it is said that appearance prevails over being, forgetting that silence is often an act of responsibility and is much more significant than many words not sufficiently meditated. The choice not to emphasize certain events in line with the most elementary common sense and the guidelines in the matter of contrast to acts of violence conflict with the media narcissism of those who do not lose opportunity to play on the shoulders of others [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , knowingly that no hand is armed by itself and that to joke with fire you can burn. Anger is a precious feeling, but violence does not generate reason: it generates only more violence. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u85	Thank you, Senator Romano, and I associate myself with your words of condemnation, beyond the merit and content, of any episode of those who want to prevent others, whatever the opinion, from freely expressing their ideas. So I express a total sharing. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u88	CORRADO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, among the many memorable, negative initiatives of the Franceschini management of the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities, the employees have suffered and still suffer especially from the Ministerial Decree of 23 December 2015 which, by regulating their behaviour, forbids them to criticize the decisions of the leaders, unless they incur serious sanctions. An exemplary case of the degenerations of the gag decree, as it was nicknamed, occurred in these days in Calabria. The Directorate-General for Archaeology and Arts and Landscape intervened, from Rome, on November 12, to cancel by autoguard the arrangement of the superintendent for the Provinces of Catanzaro, Cosenza and Crotone that would have transferred of empire to San Francesco d'Assisi, since that day, the demo-ethno-anthropological service already allocated in the headquarters of Piazza Valdesi, in Cosenza. They would have been confined in San Francesco also an architect official and the affluent staff, even in order to do so - writes the manager in order to motivate the measure - to guarantee the obligation of confidentiality... very serious insinuation that does not need to comment. It is almost superfluous to point out that the autonomy and therefore the discretion recognized to a superintendent, like any form of power, presuppose a strong sense of responsibility, so as not to move from discretion to referee. Arbi contrari, in fact, and with a clear torsive intent, the Cosentine leader tried to remove from himself guilty subjects of not having supported certain of his choices not by mere divergence of opinions, but because questionable on the level of administrative correctness. I am referring above all to the great works designed for Cosenza by the mayor and unhappily shared by the superintendent. Some of them had also carried out trade union activities, perhaps faultily in the eyes of the manager. The providential intervention of the Director General blocked, as I said, the forced transfer and imposed the annulment of the exile sentence for dissenters. In general, I think it is time to restore dignity to the role of MIBAC executive and subordinate roles, repealing that so-called gag decree that some, as I have just shown, use as a means of retaliation in order to consume personal sales that have nothing to do with the delicate tasks of a superintendent. I will ask Mr Bonisoli to give serious consideration to the hypothesis that has just been put forward and I call on all my colleagues to take part in it. In this objectively twilight season for the MIBAC, severely weakened by the bad reform of the previous Minister, the free thought (even critical) of professionals with decades of experience must not expose them to make the end of the blast furnace, but should be encouraged if ever to emerge. It is a heritage to which we cannot and must not give up, if we want to hope to revitalize what otherwise will end up taking, definitively and irreparablely, the substance and form of a beautiful but empty box. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u91	EVANGELIST (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 18 November 2013, the cyclone Cleopatra fell on Gallura territory in Sardinia, killing nineteen people, nine of whom in the city of Olbia alone: Morgana (two years old) and her mother, Enrico (four years old) with her father, Anna and Maria in their homes, Bruno, Sebastiana and Maria sucked into a hole created in the road. Whole neighborhoods were swept away by a very high wave of water and mud. There is so much solidarity among Sardinian citizens, but few compensation for the considerable damage suffered by the victims of the flood and at the moment no justice for families, with the possibility of criminality already at risk of prescription. Very little has been done to secure the territory of Gallura: it is only a few months ago the beginning of the work by ANAS to eliminate the sinkhole that swallowed three people, a bridge was demolished and recently rebuilt taller. However, many works are still necessary. Meanwhile, the policy discusses the mitigation plan of hydrogeological risk, indeed on two levels: one is firm in the environmental impact assessment, the other is a feasibility study that supports the opposite of the first. The municipal administration would like to resolve the problem with a referendum that should turn citizens into hydraulic engineering experts. Meanwhile, the city, which in the meantime has also suffered the flood of 2015, lives in terror that the river gets bigger and repeats the tragedy of 2013. I appeal to the common sense of all local administrators, of the Region of Sardinia and of the Minister Costa, so that one can think only and exclusively of the good of the community of Gallura and take action as soon as possible to implement a real anti-flood plan. Already tomorrow, due to the bad weather, it may be too late. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u92	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-60.ana.u93	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 21 November, at 6.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.21 a.m.
