ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.08 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 29 November. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u3	The President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: Mr Roma, 28 November 2018 Mr President, I should like to inform your ladyship that the President of the Republic, by his own decree of today, adopted on my proposal, after consulting the Council of Ministers, has appointed Mr. Luca COLETTO. ==References====External links==
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u4	I communicate that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the bicameral parliamentary committees, already convened for tomorrow, Wednesday, December 5, are again convened, for their constitution, Wednesday, December 12, in the headquarters of Palazzo San Macuto, in Via del Seminario, according to the following times: - 8.30 am: Parliamentary Committee on Simplification and Parliamentary Committee on Supervision of Tax Registry; - 14:00 p.m.: Parliamentary Committee on Regional Affairs and Parliamentary Committee on Monitoring the Activities of Administrations of Compulsory Forms of Social Welfare and Welfare.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u5	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u6	The next item is the joint debate on documents VIII. 1 (Account of Senate revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2017) and 2 (Project of Senate internal budget for the financial year 2018). The rapporteur, Senator Pesco, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u7	Mr President, allow me to make a joke. We are in the balance sheet season and begin by examining and approving the balance sheet and draft of our House of Membership. Mr President, at the meeting of the Presidents of the Commission (which, according to the Rules, I chair as President of the Budget Commission), the College of Quaestors presented the accounts of the Senate's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2017 and the draft budget for the financial year 2018. I would like to report the essential data of these accounting documents, while Senators Quaestors will explain them in detail. Let's start from a comparison between the final expenditure of the Senate in 2012 and that in 2017. In 2012 it amounted to about 520 million euros net of savings, while in 2017, still net of savings, it was about 488 million euros. There was, therefore, a reduction of more than EUR 30 million over a few years, or around 6%. If we add inflation to this figure, which has been around 3.7% in recent years, we can say that real savings are about 10%. This is certainly a remarkable result for the Senate Administration, taking into account that this contraction in spending has not led to a decline in the quantity and quality of the services offered, thanks, on the one hand, to technological and organizational innovation and, on the other hand, to the commitment made by the Administration, despite the substantial reduction of the staff in service recorded over the specified period of time. This is a result that can therefore fill with legitimate pride the presidency of the Senate, the Senators Quaestors, the Secretary General and the whole Senate machine. The Senate has therefore played its part, in the past years, in the process of restoring public finances. It is legitimate to say that the second institution of the Republic has participated in a significant way in the path of containment of expenditure that has also affected the other administrations of the State and we can promise that the new economic policy that will be carried out by the current political majority will not have to, in relation to the expenditure of Palazzo Madama, from the path of sparing and - above all - efficiency so far accomplished. With regard to the composition of the expenditure, the operating expenditure was 54.37 percent of the total expenditure in 2017, compared with 45.63 percent of the social security expenditure, which is intended as a sum of the social security expenditure for the former senators and that for the former senate employees, who are known to be included in the budget of each of the two chambers. This is similar to that found in 2016, when 55.06 percent of total expenditure concerned operating expenditure and almost 45 percent (exactly 44.94 percent) social security expenditure. For the rest, Table 5 of the 2017 statement (final summary of compulsory expenditure), which shows us the cost of the actual political activity of the Senate (i.e. that of the senators and parliamentary groups), informs us that this expenditure is decreasing in 2017 compared to 2016. This is, however, an expenditure that could be appreciated for the reduction, even if already contained in the 2016 financial statements, in relation to the 2015 financial statements. As regards the treatment of employees in the role, in the 2017 report there is a reduction in expenditure compared to the previous year, where it was in turn in decrease compared to 2015. Moreover, this expenditure item is also decreasing in the 2018 forecast budget compared to the 2017 financial year. In this respect, it should be pointed out that the reduction in expenditure on employees of a role represents, at least in part, the accounting effect of the reduction in the number of employees in service, which has been ongoing for several years now. The measures taken for 2018 have partially curbed this hemorrhage, as well as, in other respects, has curbed the tendency to reduce expenditure in this regard; but it is clear that, in the future, we must ask ourselves about the need to start new competition procedures, in order to stabilize at least the number of employees of the Senate on a figure compatible with the good performance of the administration. Of course, the staff issue can also be considered in the context of rationalization of the Offices. The need to anticipate, in the future, an increase in expenditure in relation to the unblocking of turnover, with its new recruitments, can also be addressed with a view to overall simplification, taking into account the synergies that can be achieved thanks to the creation of parliamentary poles. On this road, which has already made it possible to make important savings in recent years, I believe that we will have to continue in the future, in order to rationalise the operation of the administrative machinery of the two rooms. I would also remind you that the budget of the Chambers also includes state funding for the Parliamentary Budget Office, established following the reform of Article 81 of the Constitution, as provided for in Article 19 of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012. This rule provides for an appropriation of EUR 3 million, which the State pays to each House, so that it is allocated to the expenses necessary for the operation of the Office. This is the general picture of the Senate's revenue and expenditure statement for the financial year 2017 and the draft budget for the financial year 2018. This year, as has already been the case five years ago, the change in the legislature did not allow us to examine these accounting documents before the summer break. As is well known, however, the delay has allowed for a limited number of changes to the budget for the current year, which had previously been decided by the Presidency at the end of the last parliamentary term, to be made with equal overall expenditure. The amendments concern, on the one hand, the increase in appropriations for certain articles, with a view to strengthening interparliamentary and international activities of the Senate and research and documentation activities, and to enhancing and further developing the professional updating of staff and equal opportunities policies; on the other hand, the establishment of new articles, with the corresponding appropriations, in order to promote investments related to the Palaces, aimed at the pursuit of the objectives of redevelopment, energy efficiency and environmental protection, the elimination of architectural barriers and the redevelopment of the external areas adjacent to them. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u8	He asked Senator Commissioner De Poli to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention to the 2018 budget and the 2017 budget. This year, unlike the last parliamentary term, the approval of the budget in the Presidency Council and in the College of Quaestors took place unanimously. We are pleased with that, because it means that the attention we wanted to give to the functioning of the Senate in all its aspects, both from a legislative point of view, concerning the work of the House and from an administrative point of view, as regards the conduct of life within our daily context, has been a positive factor. The forecast balance for 2018 had already been approved on 14 March, but, with the change of the legislature, we have given new indications regarding what could be a Senate more green, more attentive to some requests, from the passage to the use of small electric machines to 90 percent of low consumption lamps, to the photovoltaic panels installed at our warehouse, that give us the possibility to generate electricity and that do not make us pay more the bill, with an important saving, in addition to the fact of having a particular attention to green policies related to the environment. Attention has been paid to redevelopment and energy efficiency to give a global reorganization to our daily work. [[Applause from Senators Gallone and Papatheu.]] As regards the elimination of architectural barriers, the Senate, being a historic building, has architectural barriers, which we see every day in the context of normal life. Yesterday, among other things, was the international day of people with disabilities. So the fact that within the budget there is an important voice to begin with or, better, continue to pursue policies of attention for any person and, many times, even for some of us who, for some momentary reason, can live a condition of disability falls down. We also wanted to enhance the research, documentation and professional updating of our staff, certainly very qualified and attentive. With the innovation that is advancing, it is good that there is a continuous updating, to give more professionalism and attention to our needs. We have engaged in policies of equal opportunity, as well as we have foreseen an intervention, clearly in agreement with the Roman municipal administration, of redevelopment of the areas adjacent to our Palaces, in such a way as to give a better context to the Senate of the Republic. All expenditure chapters, as a result of their development, are offset in the downward expenditure forecasts that we have seen. There is no change in the forecast budget that has already been approved and we are here today for its final approval. In the future, we will highlight the work of the Impact Assessment Office because it is a unique element in Europe and one of the first at international level. The telematic transmission of parliamentary acts by digital signature is another project in the pipeline for a Senate with always less paper waste. The dematerialisation process is already underway with 75% less paper and 4.6 million euros saved. The completion of the establishment of the Register of Suppliers of the Administration serves to the transparency, demanded from all our citizens. Another important aspect, not easy to reach, is the discipline of the collaborators of the senators. I say this here in this House, as I said at 2 p.m. at the conference with all the Presidents of the Commission. We have taken the task, as a College, to analyse the issue in order to identify more suitable operating methods to meet the needs of the same collaborators. The subject has been reiterated several times and we have made a commitment as the College of Quaestors, together with my colleagues, Mr Arrigoni and Mr Bottici, to achieve the objective for the next budgets, depending on what we can do. We will certainly implement you because the Senate House has asked us to do so. There were agendas on this subject, but it was precisely because of our commitment that they were not presented. I thank the presenters who have given us confidence in this path. Let me turn to the illustration of the accounting documents today to the examination and the bureaucratic and administrative aspects, but important of the statement of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2017. The total expenditure of the Senate, net of the savings paid, amounts to 488.930.460.71 euros, in decrease of approximately 3.1 million euros regarding the final of 2016. In this year we have achieved additional savings and this trend that continues for more than eight years, starting from 2010, until reaching an additional saving important for the 2017 revenue statement. If we compare the 2017 figures with those of 2012, with reference to the beginning of the legislature, the actual expenditure of the Senate has decreased by more than 6 percent. As regards the supplementary health care budget for Senators (ASIS) - I quote this item, because so many times in public contexts too, data do not conform to the real situation - I repeat that it is entirely up to us Members of Parliament and not the Institution. I remember that from 2017 to today there has been a total operating surplus of 2,246 million euros, therefore a positive figure, not in negative. This testifies that even for the sums paid directly by the senators there is a careful and precise management, month by month, just to reassure that the management of public and private resources is perfectly in order and transparent compared to what we are asked. If we look at Senate spending, we can see that general operating expenses occupy 55 percent of the total Senate spending, with a decrease of 5 million compared to 2017, despite the change in the legislature. I would like to draw attention to this, which is another important aspect that I would like to reiterate. I would also like to say that, in the face of a rigid senate spending that is 91 percent of compulsory expenditure, as I said, we have adopted a series of cost reduction measures, almost as if it were our home - give me the expression, which perhaps will make you smile - with a careful management of even small things, which are often reported to us by fellow senators, by people. We wanted to make a specific and daily intervention, paying particular attention to the context of an important public management such as that of the Senate of the Republic. Moving on to the 2018 budget, expenditure still drops to 539 million, so another year falling, as I mentioned earlier, despite the change in the legislature: while the other branch of Parliament has an increase of 19 million, Senate spending is still decreasing. The Senate for the eighth consecutive year recorded the minus sign in the spending forecasts. In 2018 there are currently 12 million euros of savings. The financial burden of the Senate on public finance - as I would like to recall - has been reduced from 2013 to 2018, to an amount of €221.7 million. It is true that it is more than a few years, but that means that the reduction in expenditure and the attention that we want to place on this issue is no longer a fact of commercials, but a continuous strategic intervention that we want to make within the institution, to say that attention to costs and clearly to the evaluation of public money is always important. The figure is composed, first of all, of a smaller budget: the endowment of Palazzo Madama has been reduced again this year by 21,6 million euros compared to the amount of 2011. The lower budget in the last six years has led to a savings of 30 million euros. The annual amount of the budget is EUR 505.360.500 and is reconfirmed again this year compared to the path we have made. Moreover, in addition to the lower budget, the Senate has saved additional resources from 2013 to today, for a total of about 92 million euros and this is a very important fact. The minus sign concerns all fronts, first of all the dynamics of wages: we have a -27 percent from 2012 to today and a -40.5 million from 2011 to today. Then there is the parliamentary allowance and the ancillary skills, of which many times we discuss and to which pages and pages are dedicated in the newspapers, but not only, because it is spoken widely everywhere, from bars to any other place within our nation. Parliamentary compensation and ancillary competences had a reduction of around EUR 51 million. From 19 percent of the total Senate budget in 2001 to 10 percent today, this means that the figure has been almost halved compared to the percentage of the allowance and ancillary skills. The general expenses of the Senate are in decrease of 7 million euros regarding 2017; in the same way there is a decrease of social security expenses of 8.640,000 euros always regarding the year precedence. The main expenditure deviations from the 2017 forecasts are due to new budgetary policy assessments, the compensation payments incurred for the performance of the parliamentary mandate, IT and reproduction services, transfers to parliamentary groups, and savings have been made thanks to a number of capital expenditure interventions. I would remind the House that in the next year's budget we have included structural interventions in the classrooms of all the Commissions concerning the automation of filming, lighting and all the other interventions that are needed in many Commissions. It is therefore a strategic intervention to be more and more attentive to internal but also external needs. I also remember that we switched from one or two to eight TV channels, so we have significantly enhanced this area, and we have carried out interventions in the audio and video sector. In this parliamentary term we wanted to focus on three key words: quality, innovation and the future. Quality has focused on spending in particular: we have not only adopted fine cuts in ourselves, but have taken care of strategic interventions. For example, there have been cuts in transfers - as I said before - to former senators, moreover since 2012 we have a calculation based on the contributory and non-wage system, so we have moved to a completely different calculation. The contribution of solidarity, from 2014 to 2016, is 17 million euros; on the data processing center, rentals and utilities we have a reduction in expenditure of 650,000 euros and practically from 2018 we have no expenditure for rentals and I believe this is important (the last lease I think was that of the property of Santa Maria in Aquiro). The savings on logistics is about 1,5 million euros thanks to the exchange and the new procedures of race; the expenses for the motor vehicles are dropped of 57 percent, with all the green and electric machines that we have changed. The expenses of representation have decreased by 32 percent, then we have a series of conventions for the health center, therefore for the health of all our employees and of each of us: a convention has been made with Ares 118, making available one of the structures of the Senate, precisely the area under Palazzo Cenci. As for innovation, we can talk, as I said before, about a green Senate and, among other things, even more pink, because there has been an overtaking of the female component, which is 345 units, against the 304 male employees. This brought attention that the Senate wanted to give to the female part [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and we see it not only within our Administration, but also within our Assembly, which has been renewed in a special way with the presence of women, which also led to the adoption of a series of interventions for the mother senators, which we activated in the Senate for the first time in the last legislature. The Senate is against food waste and is more cloud-oriented, with IT, technological and virtualization infrastructures. A Senate that thus becomes a model for all the parliaments of Europe. Moreover, I believe that, with digital printers, new terminals and the renewal of computer infrastructures, a real digital revolution has been achieved, thanks to which we have achieved a saving of 2.5 million euros, which has led the Senate of the Italian Republic to become among the first European institutions with innovative systems. Among other things, a recent dossier produced by the Evaluation and Impact Office has seen an average increase in productivity of 40%, a result which is largely due to the computerization carried out by Palazzo Madama in recent years. This is clearly a positive factor in the trend we have put in place with colleagues, Senators Arrigoni and Bottici, who are here by my side, and, of course, with the whole Administration. The legislative activity has become more and more 4.0: just think about the Tabulas app, the app for press agencies, for the press review, for the restyling of the Senate site, also as regards an increasingly lighter, more digital and less paper Senate. The digital reproduction contract has reduced, as I said, the paper copies by 75 percent, from 80 million to 20 million copies: a very important thing, beyond the costs, also to make the Senate more and more active. Another of the projects we would have in mind is to computerize the Senate House, thanks to all the innovative systems available today (e.g. tablets). We're studying the matter. We have a problem, not so much IT as structural: to maintain the environment as we see it, without ruining its historical context. However, we are getting there, just to give each of the senators present an environment where they can work much faster and more innovative. An increasingly open and increasingly digital Senate, clearly also towards the citizens, with the system of television shooting of the sessions of the Senate Chamber and the technological modernization of the budget of the Chamber, as I said before, and the Commissions' classrooms, thanks also to the Open date site of the Senate itself and the implementation of the Senate's web TV up to eight channels. To date, more than three million people have followed the Senate's work and I believe that this is a very important aspect. The Senate is increasingly open to the contribution of citizens to the legislative process: it is thanks to the work of the Office for the evaluation and impact of public policies, which, among us three quaestors, is our colleague Laura Bottici who follows in a particular way, in addition to clearly all the contexts of the Administration. This Office is the first within an institution in Italy and is among the first in Europe. A thank you also goes to the Observatory on Public Finance for the insights it has realized on the topics of economy and finance. We have invested in quality and innovation to build the future. More than ever today, this is one of the important aspects, also in order to give the opportunity to integrate the demands made today by the President of the 5th Commission, to have greater support for the work to be done, including in terms of personnel. As I said before, we've basically halved the staff. I do not know: perhaps before the staff was right, maybe it was too much: but today it is little, and I believe that this is one of the aspects that we must take into account. The functional integrations that we are doing between the Chamber and the Senate concern parliamentary poles, health services, computer services and documentation, with the implementation of the existing library center and historical archives. Speaking of historical archives, by the end of the year the two archives of Chamber and Senate will operate with the same infrastructure. There is also a procedural scheme, which we have examined with Senator Arrigoni, of common competitions to be banned between Chamber and Senate. I am talking about the management of IT services, customer support, prepress, press review and satellite channel. So, I think more than ever this is our strength. Palazzo Madama in these years (and I from the Commissioner, with my colleagues, have realized this) more than ever it is done above all, like any institution, of people. Allow me, therefore, to thank all those who, with passion, professionalism and great sense of the institutions, work in this structure, demonstrating to the outside that quality exists; it exists in the competence, professionalism and motivation of individuals. That also means teaming up. I believe that in order for an institution to be able to do well, clearly beyond the different political assessments as is right in the democratic debate, we must team up when the need arises. Today our budget is voted by a team to achieve goals that we hope will always improve, and that certainly makes us very happy. At this point, I repeat my thanks to my two colleagues, whom I have mentioned several times, Senator Bottici and Senator Arrigoni. As you can see, we are sitting on government benches because today we represent the government of the Senate, even if we come from different political contexts. In fact, when we manage for the future of each of us, as we are trying to do, we sit in this part of the House. [[Applause from the M5S, FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] In conclusion, I really thank those who help us to achieve these goals, because without them we could not succeed. I speak in particular of the Secretary-General and the Deputy Secretaries-General, who have been our fundamental interlocutors, indispensable for the work of the College of Quaestors and the Presidency Council. [[Applause.]] I clearly thank all the Services Directors, all our Office Heads and all the staff. Thank you very much to our assistants here in this House, but not just here in this House, because they help us when some of us get a little upset - let us say this - and they have to intervene and try to get everything back on track. [[Applause.]] I also thank the law enforcement agencies, the police and police who guarantee our security, for the important work they have done, and all of you who are here. [[Applause.]] That is why, also on behalf of my colleagues, Mr Arrigoni and Mr Bottici, I would ask you to give your assent to the 2018 forecast balance sheet and the 2017 final balance sheet. Finally, I would like to add the full text of my speech. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u10	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u11	Mr President, I am not speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to highlight the positive figures contained in the budget and forecast balance sheet which have been made very clear by both the President of the Budget Committee and the President of the College of Quaestors. These are important data and it is certainly very pleased to see that in 2018 there were 12 million euros of savings, so we must thank both the current Presidency Council and the previous one because after the first six months of 2018 there has been a change. Staff, from 2006 to the present day, have decreased by 40% and overall operating costs have dropped by around 7 million compared to 2017, as well as social security expenditures that have dropped by 8.6 million. The data confirm a good performance and the good administration that has been carried out, so our intervention is actually a thank you to everyone. Especially those of us who are neosenators, and they are most, when they arrived in the Senate they immediately found a very helpful environment, with great skills and today's data demonstrate this. Obviously there is also a speech of human relationship and ability to intervene, of support that really satisfied us very much. On behalf of my Group I would therefore like to thank all the members of the Presidency Council, especially the Quaestors, the Secretary-General, the Deputy Secretaries-General and all the Offices of the Administration, for having been very supportive, demonstrating a great competence. So a thank you and I would say, perhaps, that a round of applause seems right to me from everyone. [[Applause.]] I would therefore like to conclude, being close to the festivities, with a wish. Our hope is that the Administration will continue along this path and that it will be confirmed - I would like to stress this - its current organizational structure. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] With this wish, which will be followed by Senator Tosato's speech in an explanation of vote, I repeat my thanks to everyone. I felt it was necessary to take this step on behalf of the League Group. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u12	Senator Schifani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u13	Mr President, my Group's explanation of vote will be given by Senator Malan and will of course be in favour. I would like to make a quick comment on a number of points which can only be positive and which should be mentioned in this House. We talked about some 222 million Senate savings from 2013 to 2018. In 2011-2012, under my presidency, there was a savings of 52 million and it was recalled that at that time we canceled the offices of the former Hotel Bologna, which hosted senators, with the savings that was generated later. Already in those years in fact we have indicated the line of the block of the turnover, that today has allowed to have the reduction of staff, cited from the leader of the League, that it has dropped from 950 dependent to 650. Perhaps a little; it should be re-evaluated if human resources are sufficient, since the reduction of staff was also, in recent years, on the eve of a hypothetical cancellation, as someone called it, or at least replacement of the Senate, that would be called to play smaller roles than those provided for in the current Constitution which, fortunately, has remained unchanged. Senators' allowances went down; before they affected the senate's total expenditure by 19 percent, now they're down to 10 percent. Social security expenditure fell by 8 million compared to 2017 and operating expenses by 7 million compared to 2017. The trend is therefore growing in the sense of functionality, positive growth and well-being compared to the quality of spending. I do not wish to appear contradictory in my own language; by growth I mean the realization of economies. A real expenditure of the Senate that, on the total expenditure of the State, affects today of 0,057, while in 2006 it had even of 0,087. So this number has also decreased, which says so much. We talked about the employees. What about the communication system? In 2017, three million Italians had the opportunity to follow our work and access online sites. What about the campaign of green politics and the contrast to anything that can be polluting? Let us think, for example, of senate cars that self-load and do not go to diesel or petrol. A policy therefore also in tune with the needs of the country and a better climate, with less pollution. I conclude quickly with a thank you: a thanks first of all to the work of the Quaestors, who revisited a previous balance sheet hesitated by the previous Administration, and they did so in melius, because they increased the savings margins. And, therefore, I would like to thank the Group and myself, even in my modest capacity as former President of the Senate. A thank you - as my previous colleague said - goes to the Administration. I am proud of this Administration, of the young people I left when I was President of the Senate, and that I have now found officials and executives, who are envious of us from outside; sometimes they come - I say it in positive - stolen. But for us this is a reason for satisfaction: when officials are called to play roles sometimes as Head of Cabinet of the President of the Council, sometimes as Deputy Head of Cabinet of Ministers - an excellent, very valid official of a very important Commission has been called to be part of a strategic structure of the current President of the Council - to confirm, Senators Quaestors, colleagues, that the Administration expresses professionalism that stand and are neutral towards politics, because they are called to help the institutions, and therefore the governments that follow each other, beyond their belonging and location. For this we can only be grateful and proud of it, just as we are proud of those who - let's say so - under Rule 166 of the Rules of Procedure are responsible for it; I remember that the Offices depend on the Secretary-General, and we know that and the Leader of the League just said so. A thank you, therefore, goes also to the Secretary General. There is the principle - as we know - of objective responsibility, what we lawyers all know, so sometimes, when you are at the top, you pay for the responsibilities of your subordinates. However, there is also the principle of thanksgiving and objective merit when, in fact, those who are subjected make a good impression on those who respond to it. In this case I think it is necessary to express a thank you to the Secretary General and to his structure. Of course, the Secretary-General has the obligation of mandate - as provided for in the Rules of Procedure - to be liable, by obligation of result, to the President of the Senate. But I think that the result of our Administration, from the parliamentary assistant to the high grades, can leave us serene and enthusiastic about what our young people and the less young daily give. [[Applause from the FI-BP and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u14	The joint debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u17	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we shall vote in favour not only of the budget but also of the budget. I believe that this report has been quite comprehensive and, therefore, I would just like to focus on a few absolutely fundamental issues. We note not only generically the reduction of the costs - of these times we all produce savings - but also its constant realization year by year - I would like to remember it here - now from 2013, as President Schifani recalled a moment ago. The constancy of both the previous Presidency and the current Presidency means that there has been a capacity, an approach, a conviction and also a support from the Administration that has made this possible. But what, as far as I am concerned, is absolutely to be emphasized is the mission on which the forecast budget was built with adjustments - it had already been approved at the end of the previous parliamentary term - which concerns certain aspects which are fundamental to us. What was the mission? It was that of refocusing, remodelling and pushing more and more on innovation and, therefore, on the quality of expenditure and also of service. We have in our hands one of the most delicate things that concerns citizens, because we are the place par excellence of legislative production, to which it has an immediate and direct reverb. This means that, in order to preserve the quality, capacity and professionalism of the staff, the reorganization and reduction of expenses must never be to the detriment of quality, but always put at the service of quality and innovation. Innovations - as we have seen - have been and will continue to be there: I am also thinking about innovation in green. And on this I push you and we all push to do even more. From the point of view of energy saving still can be improved and implemented the sector. Other innovations can be introduced: I quote - for example - the canteen and catering service, in which savings have been made and where we can further recover in order not to waste, through a circular economy that must be the guide also within the Administration. I am not going back to the figures that have been clear and clear. The savings were possible because there was great skill and professionalism on the part of all the staff. And I insist on the professionalism of the staff: I think it is important, on occasions such as the approval of the internal budget, to take into account the ability and the possibility to interact with all the staff. And so, I thank not only the Quaestors and the entire Presidency Council, but also the Secretary-General, the secretariat structure and all the Directors of the Services, who have been valuable all these years and have helped us achieve this goal, despite - I repeat - the reduction of staff has been very strong. I would like to remind you that there has been a reduction of more than 40%, which is not small, but the same service capacity and quality have been maintained. When we hold hearings in the Commission - I mean here - in a sensitive Commission like the one I belong to, which is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, each of the personalities, professors, jurists and constitutionalists auditions, it has always congratulated itself on the quality of the dossiers and dossiers prepared by the Senate Studies Service. This is an enormous recognition that we must take into account, especially in view of the very high reduction of more than 40% of staff. And we also know why, but I don't want to go back to the past. As I have already said, we will vote in favour of the internal budget documents, both as the LEU Group and as the Mixed Group, and we can only renew our thanks for the work that has been done over all these years, both by the political structure, and therefore by the whole Presidency Council, and by the whole administrative structure. I close with an anecdote: when I first entered the Senate - as our President will remember - for all of us it was fundamental, in order to better develop our skills and succeed in doing a good job from the qualitative point of view, to have the support of the officials and managers of the Senate: it was always an element of pride the great administrative and organizational machine of the Senate. Maybe, on the other hand, we should think about what spoil system means. Having a machine at the service of the Institution with its professionalism is the real guarantee of autonomy, independence and third-partyness, fundamental for our work. [[Applause from the Mixed-Leu and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u20	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, Senators and Senators, today's debate on the accounts of Senate revenue and expenditure for 2017 and on the draft internal budget for 2018 has developed in an appreciable way and with a serious confrontation between the various political parties of majority and opposition. The debate, in fact, touched on many points related to the voices of entry and spending of the Senate, which testified to the interest and political commitment of the various political groups of majority and opposition, so that this institution will continue in the virtuous path that has been undertaken for some time now and that everyone - albeit each with their own style - should pursue and improve further. The positive opinion that we wish to express on the 2017 report is based not only on the data that emerge from the document at our examination, but also on the ways in which these have been achieved. At a time when sacrifices were demanded from the country to bring public finances under control, the Senate has greatly reduced its burden on public finances. In the last legislature, the Senate has consistently committed itself to a process of reducing its costs and has improved its services, and the fact that it has kept these commitments I think is to be noted with great satisfaction. We all, together with the whole structure of the Senate, have been actors and protagonists of this virtuous path, born with the now known agenda G100 - proposed by the PD and approved in 2012 - that dictated for the Senate a goal that could then seem ambitious: a change of habits, expenses and organizational arrangements that seemed difficult to reach and instead, with tenacity and constancy, were pursued year after year. Today the organizational machine of the Institution is objectively improved: the services, in particular those managed together with the Chamber, are more efficient and the way has been opened for new and further improvements. Certainly - as many have already mentioned - a substantial part of this improvement of the institution must be recognized as merit to the employee, to which the greatest sacrifices in terms of weight reduction within the Senate budget have been asked, without losing the quality of the service. All together we have emphasized that this means only one thing: high professionalism. What is most striking in the positive sense from the review of the 2017 financial statements is that, from 2012 to 2017, the expenditure has decreased, net of the savings to be paid to the State: from about 520 million euros to about 488 million euros. Without prejudice to the increase in staff expenditure in quiescence, the 2017 report presents a reduction in all macro aggregates of compulsory current expenditure (senators and parliamentary groups, former senators, institutional secretariats, employees in service and social security and tax charges) compared to both 2016 and 2015. The operating surplus marks a new positive trend from €44.2 million in 2015 to €59.9 million in 2016 and to €64.3 million in 2017. These few numbers are important first of all for their symbolic value, but also for their absolute number, and take on even more value if we take into account the good level of efficiency and effectiveness achieved by the Institution. Given the positive results achieved, we are facing new challenges today. We may find ourselves satisfied, but precisely from these results I think we must start again to set new goals and leave an even more efficient Senate to the next legislature. The 18th legislature is beginning and it is necessary to continue along the path undertaken in recent years, made of greater efficiency, greater ability to achieve spending savings. At the end of the rationalization phase of internal spending, we believe that a number of fronts on which to work are still open. The draft budget for 2018 does not contain any particular indications in this respect, even because of the passage between the old and the new legislature. We believe, however, that one of the areas on which we should confront ourselves in the coming months and on which to work from here to the end of the 18th legislature is the intensification of synergies with the House of Deputies, with the aim of accentuating, as far as possible, the joint provision of services of identical nature, which the two institutions still provide to Members in a separate way. On the subject of the unification of Chamber and Senate services much still can be done. I am thinking, for example, of the Study Service, which already produces documents in common today but operates from separate locations. I think, then - to give a few examples - that it would be useful to unify computer services, technical and accounting services, press releases, international relations and what else remains in separate management. Above all, we believe it is essential, also for the sake of transparency of the institutions, that a single power station be set up for tenders and contracts. We could work, then, to put together and manage in common, in addition to the services, also the properties available to the two institutions, to better meet the requirements of the parliamentary mandate, to improve the quality of the services offered and to facilitate the work carried out by the high professionalism present in the institution: in short, sharing of the structures, less offices and more services. With regard to staff, action is needed to improve all the equipment needed to increase the efficiency of the Offices. The Senate is a complex machine that is based on an important fact: the assets of employees who are present in it and work there. I believe it is essential to invest more resources in the future in order to encourage and strengthen the instruments available, for the qualification, enrichment and professional updating of those who work within this institution. In fact, having important and qualified services for a Member of Parliament who is preparing to examine a legislative measure is indispensable and, therefore, those who provide these instruments must always be at their best. Therefore, competence, updating, professional seriousness and analysis of organic needs are indispensable. It is also necessary to plan, where necessary, the increase of staff in staff, providing unique competitions with the Chamber for recruitment of new staff. I also think that work should be done to further strengthen the transparency mechanisms of the institution. In this context, the Democratic Party of the Senate Group claims a primary role, respectful of the determinations assumed in recent years by the Senate, in terms of transparency and publicity of its own financial statements, always certified by external auditors. With regard to transparency, work must be done to ensure that the Senate's internal budget is accompanied in the future by an ever-increasing number of information detailing the individual items of revenue and expenditure. This, in order to make the Senate a glass house, accessible to all citizens, even in the most hidden folds. I shall start with the conclusions. Those outlined are only some of the possible interventions to further improve the functioning of the Senate and, more generally, of the parliamentary institutions. This is an extremely necessary field of action, taking into account the many efforts and sacrifices that the whole of the national community has been called upon to make in recent years. I would particularly like to thank the Secretary-General, Dr Serafin, the Deputy Secretaries-General and the Directors of the Services. It is a thank you that means appreciation for the work done, as well as a certificate of deep trust. The College of Quaestors, also on the basis of the determinations that will take place in the Senate Assembly, will have to formulate in the coming months the proposals that illustrate the path and the initiatives to continue in the overall reorganization of our parliamentary institutions. I believe that these remarks should be made with pride, and that is why the Democratic Party Group will vote in favour of the 2017 budget and the Senate's draft internal budget for the financial year 2018. In conclusion, I want to point out a fact that remains for us an open wound: the results of the elections for the offices within the Senate, including the College of Quaestors, have seen the Democratic Party absent. We have pointed this out to the President, because we believe that this is not a positive element, and in the direction not of control, but above all of guarantee. Oppositions must be taken into account and we believe that this is an important fact. The wound is still open. We believe that today it is right to vote in favour of both the statement and the draft budget, but we remain dissatisfied with the passage that occurred at the beginning, when - in our opinion - the prerogatives of the opposition were trampled on, which, in the management of the Senate, are elements of guarantee. In the institutions there are no logics of majority and opposition (as in the Government): in the institutions there is talk of control and guarantee, which must be exercised jointly. I think this is an appropriate point of emphasis to be made at this time and then we will see what will be the continuation in the management of the Senate. In conclusion, I repeat the vote in favour of both the documents in question. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Arrigoni, Bottici and De Poli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u23	TOSATO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group also gives a positive assessment of the draft budget under consideration, as it was drawn up by the College of Quaestors. We also thank you, for the work done, the Senate Administration and all the employees - the Secretary General and all his collaborators - who have guaranteed quality over the years. The numbers of the accounts are also naturally the result of their commitment and their collaboration with the College of Quaestors, whose composition has been partially renewed this year: to the Senators Questori De Poli and Bottici, who already played this role in the past legislature, the Senator Questore Paolo Arrigoni has joined. My fellow Members have certainly done a good job, given the numbers they have given us, which have been evaluated and approved by the Presidency Council. What are the strengths, which we appreciate, of the draft budget? There is no doubt that there is an increasing commitment to reducing expenditure, as this is our duty and everyone who is political towards the citizens. I am referring, in particular, to very significant data relating to the telematic transmission of parliamentary acts through digital signature, which has led to a considerable reduction in the use of paper, with a saving of almost EUR 5 million, thanks to the process of dematerialization, which is certainly necessary and necessary. As legislators we are imposing it on citizens and production groups, the Senate must also be a consequence of what Parliament has decided. We also appreciate the procedure for the establishment and completion of the Supplier Register, which will have to ensure an increasingly efficient and transparent expenditure. We also appreciate that for the eighth consecutive year there are savings (equal to EUR 12 million this year and, in recent years as a whole, more than EUR 220 million) due to lower staff, parliamentary allowances and social security costs. These are all positive data that we appreciate. In the same way, we appreciate the choices on new investments that concern, in particular, the redevelopment and energy efficiency, the elimination of architectural barriers and the strengthening of the research of documentation and the professional updating of staff. This means that, alongside a reduction in expenditure, there is still an investment capacity in the areas which require it and which can enable this branch of Parliament to provide a better service. This may sound like a formal act, but I don't think it is. We have the responsibility, as a political body, to approve the state budget, which is that document which concerns the lives of all citizens and which we are preparing to examine in the coming weeks. It is obvious that we must pay similar attention to managing the resources entrusted to the functioning of the Senate of the Republic. These are sometimes defined as the costs of politics, whereas we believe that it is the costs of the functioning of democracy. But if we want to get this message across and not make demagogy prevail, we must first of all be clearly responsible for how we manage these funds. We therefore hope that in the coming years, with the forecast budgets approved by the College of Quaestors and the Presidency Council, we will continue along the path we have set out. It is obvious that saving on large amounts allocated - as happened eight years ago - and reversing the path is easier, because cutting at the beginning involves the possibility of actually affecting unnecessary expenses, which could be contained and had to be reduced. To continue along this path, after eight consecutive years of reducing expenditure, certainly more difficult, because it is more difficult to identify additional expenditure to contain. But we ask that we continue along this path, of course with due attention. There must be no reduction in the quality of the service guaranteed, in the efficiency and effectiveness of legislative activity. All of us, however, must always keep and keep in mind, out of a sense of responsibility, that our country is experiencing a serious economic crisis and, therefore, we must manage every single euro with great attention and responsibility. We must not disappoint the expectations of the citizens and we must continue on this path, and we are sure that the College of Quaestors and the Presidency Council will do so, being necessary and necessary. For all these reasons, we will, of course, be voting in favour of the documents in question, and we hope that the direction taken will also be taken in the coming years. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u26	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President - as you have pointed out several times - the Senate is at the service of the citizens and must first of all carry out its task in the best possible way, which is to represent the citizens, to legislate and to carry out a control action on the government and the institutions in general, being, precisely, composed of representatives directly elected by the people. To do this, it is essential that its structures perform their functions in the best way and all policies of savings, rationalization and study are implemented to make the Senate more efficient in serving the country in a precise and proper way. The action taken by the Quaestors in the first months of the legislature has certainly gone in this direction. The budget takes account of this and takes note of it; Senator Questre De Poli has explained the figures, which underline very significant savings and the fact of starting from a situation not of enlargement of expenditure: in the last ten, indeed even twelve years, there has been a constant decrease in costs, which did not mean a reduction in the efficiency of this institution, but rather improved it and introduced those many innovations already illustrated. This was, therefore, a very carefully done job. I would like to emphasise one aspect. By comparing the performance of the Senate's budget and, even more so, of the senators' voice (both those in office and those no longer in office), we have a trend of spending that, if it had been the same on the part of the State in general, today, rather than talking about higher or lower deficits, we should discuss how to use the many billions of surplus that would have the state administration's coffers. We know, however, that the situations are different and the margins of the Senate are different from those of the General Administration of the State. In any case, however, this is definitely a reality. In order to achieve results, which are supported by all, over the years there have been many motions, suggestions and proposals to go in this direction. We now have before us the College of Quaestors, with Senator Queste elder De Poli and Senators Questori Bottici and Arrigoni, who have done an important job. The leadership of the President of the Senate, Alberti Casellati, is fundamental, which has certainly given further impetus to the whole process. [[Applause from the FI-BP, M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] It is necessary to remember the work that is carried out daily by the Senate structure, by the Secretary General, Dr. Serafin, to the Deputy Secretaries General present, Toniato and Sandomenico, and to the whole structure of the Senate. [[Applause from the FI-BP, M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] We owe thanks to this work which is being carried out without regard to timetables and limits, always at the service of political decisions and political conduct given to this House. This is an extremely important and fundamental aspect, as President Schifani has already pointed out, which has spoken before me. We know that the structure of the Senate is of such a quality that often - it would almost have to be said: "Unfortunately" - some of its officials are asked of us by other institutions and, for loyal cooperation, the Senate allows them to go there. It is an important aspect of collaboration between institutions, of recognition of the quality of the structure of the Senate, as well as an enrichment in their skills and knowledge for people who live such an experience, who will then be able to return one day - hoping they will do so; I say it as a Senate institution. The vote of Forza Italia, therefore, will certainly be in favour of the statement and the budget forecast, because it fully shares the path taken, as has already been the case in the past Presidencies, and in particular in the previous Presidency of Forza Italia of Senator Schifani. Finally, I wish you every success in the continuation of your work, which we know to be complex, but which has been done with great commitment. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u27	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Liceo Convitto nazionale - Vittorio Emanuele II - from Cagliari who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u30	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not go back to the arid figures in the internal budget either. At a time of overall expenditure reduction, however, it is necessary to highlight certain aspects such as the increase in appropriations for studies and research; the strengthening of interparliamentary and international senate activities; the training and professional updating of employees. At a time of expenditure reduction, new capital items are created. [[A parliamentary assistant sets up the senator's microphone]] With regard to thanking the Administration, I think it is necessary to thank the parliamentary assistants who play a fundamental role for us in these small things too. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The new items in capital account are destined for the redevelopment of buildings and outdoor areas for a total of 2.5 million euros; for the adaptation of the Senate buildings in a more modern and innovative sense, with an eye to energy saving, the environment and the overcoming of architectural barriers (a fundamental case for a public building and all the more for the Upper House of this country). Among the other actions envisaged is the telematic transmission of data, with an economic saving in this case too, but with an eye to the environment. Although someone often calls for the "paper" of parliamentary acts, I believe that if we turn less paper and move towards the telematics of acts, we will do something right. In announcing the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Stars, both to the forecast part, and to the consuntive one of the internal budget, I cannot of course fail to entrust to the hands of the Secretary General, with the certainty that he will send it, a widespread thanks for all the Offices. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] I would like to express a specific thanks to the Secretary-General and the Deputy Secretaries-General for making our work easier and more fruitful. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups and Senator Casini.]] Moreover, while I believe it is fundamentally predictable that apical figures of an important Administration, perhaps one of the most important in the country, have competence, ability, as well as self-denial at work, it is not so easy and obvious to find the sense of belonging to the institution, that we must have, as they have the administrative bodies, in the mutual respect and independence of the functions we have. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] A non-formal thanks, therefore, but substantial, goes therefore to the work of the Offices, remembering that team that wins you do not touch. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u31	Senators, at the end of the examination of the financial documents and before the final vote, I too would like to express my sincere thanks to the Quaestors for their diligent and fruitful efforts to best meet the numerous and articulated operational needs of this institution. [[Applause]] With this draft budget the Senate has intended to give a clear signal in the direction of spending increasingly rational and inspired by the principles of good performance, effectiveness, efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Senators Questors should therefore be recognized the merit of having been able to pursue a virtuous work of cost containment, without sacrificing the opportunity to implement investments in strategic sectors, with interventions both related to the energy and functional sustainability of the Senate buildings, and aimed at a constant growth of professionalism and research activities. I would also like to thank the Secretary-General, the Administration he represents and the entire staff, who have made it possible on a daily basis to achieve the ambitious objectives they have set themselves. [[Applause]] Thank you. Thank you so much. [[Applause]] I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Senate's revenue and expenditure accounts for the financial year 2017 (Doc. VIII, No 1). (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Senate's draft internal budget for the financial year 2018 (Doc. VIII, No 2). (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u32	The Conference of Leaders approved changes and additions to the current timetable. In the session of tomorrow and in the session of Thursday 6, which does not include closing hours, the motion on the protection of the Italian agri-food sector, the European law 2018 and the bill related to the budgetary maneuver on the concreteness of public administrations will be discussed. The question time, with the ministers Centinario, Toninelli and Costa, is also confirmed for Thursday 6 at 3 p.m. On Monday 10 December, at 5 p.m., the President will make communications, pursuant to Rule 126 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, on the content of the budget law. The budget session will begin from then on. The Permanent Commissions will have to submit their reports to the 5th Commission by 7 p.m. on Wednesday 12 December. The Assembly will also meet on Wednesday 12 December, at 3.30 p.m., with communications from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 13 and 14 December 2018. The agenda for the sitting, without closing hours, may also provide for the possible follow-up of unfinished items. The debate on the draft anti-corruption law and, where concluded by the Commission, the ratification of the Lighthouse Convention on Cultural Heritage are also confirmed. To this end, the agenda of the week will also be held on Friday 14 December, if necessary. In the following week, with no closing hours from Tuesday 18 until Saturday 22 December, if necessary, the draft budget law will be discussed.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u33	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes and additions to the current calendar: [[Tuesday, 4 December h. 15 - Documents VIII Nos. 1 and 2 - Report 2017 and internal balance sheet of the Senate 2018 - Motions on the protection of the Italian agri-food sector - Drawing of law n. 822 - European law 2018 and related Doc. LXXXVI No 1 and Doc. LXXXVII n. 1 - Programmatic and consuntive relations on the participation of Italy in the European Union - Drawing of law n. 920 - Concreteness of the actions of the public administrations (connected to the maneuver of public finances) (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 6, at 15) Wednesday 5 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 6 " h. 9,30]] Amendments to draft law No 822 (European Law 2018) should be tabled no later than 5 p.m. on Tuesday 4 December. Amendments to the resolution on Italy's participation in the European Union accepted by the Government should be tabled within 30 minutes of the opinion. The deadline for tabling amendments to Law No 920 (Concreteness of Public Administration Actions) will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. [[Monday, December 10, h. 17 - Communications of the President, pursuant to Rule 126, paragraph 4, of the Rules on the content of the draft budget law (*) - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the European Council of 13 and 14 December 2018 (Wednesday, 15.30) - Possible follow-up of topics not concluded - Drawing of law n. 955 - Anticorruption (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawings of law n. 257 and 702 - Ratification of the Lighthouse Convention on Cultural Heritage (where concluded by the Commission) Wednesday 12 " h. 15.30 Thursday 13 " h. 9.30 Friday 14 " h. 9.30 (if necessary)]] (*) Immediately after the President's communications, the draft budget law will be assigned to the 5th Permanent Commission in the referee and to the other Commissions in the consultative session. The budget session will begin from then on. Budgetary session (indicative deadlines): The Permanent Commissions will have to submit their reports to the 5th Commission by 7 p.m. on Wednesday 12 December. The 5th Permanent Commission will conclude its work on the draft budget bill in time to be able to report to the Assembly at its meeting on Tuesday 18 December. The deadline for tabling amendments to the Assembly will be set in relation to the work of the 5th standing Commission. The deadline for amendments to bill No 955 (Anti-corruption) will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. [[Tuesday 18 December h. 17 - Draft law n.... - Budget law for 2019 and multiannual budget for the three-year period 2019-2021 (where transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies) (final vote with the presence of the quorum) Wednesday 19 " h. 9.30 Thursday 20 " h. 9.30 Friday 21 " h. 9.30 Saturday 22 " h. 9.30 (if necessary)]] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 822 (European Law 2018) and related documents Doc. LXXXVI No 1 and Doc. LXXXVII No 1 (Programme and summary reports on Italy's participation in the European Union) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1h 13' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 920 (Concreteness of Public Administration Actions) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1h 13' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion on the Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 13 and 14 December 2018 (2 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 2 hours, of which: M5S 29' FI-BP 20' L-SP-PSd'Az 20' PD 18' FdI 12' Mixed 11' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 10' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Budget law for 2019 and multiannual budget for the three-year period 2019-2021) (20 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Majority Rapporteurs 1 h. Minority Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 4 h. Groups 13 hours, of which: M5S 3 h. 9' FI-BP 2 h. 11' L-SP-PSd'Az 2 h. 7' PD 2 h. FdI 1 h. 18' Mixed 1 h. 10' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 1 h. 5' Dissentents 5']] (16.37 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u36	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, as you and the other group leaders know, we have not expressed our agreement on this timetable, essentially for two reasons. In the meantime, I find it truly incredible that for days we have been discussing the newspapers, television and press releases on the well-known issue, which has not been addressed in Parliament, the Global compact for migration and therefore Italy's participation or not in the UN Conference on Migration in Marrakech. For the truth, I would like to remind you here that two months ago (or perhaps even a little less) the Italian Government had found nothing strange about this, had also guaranteed the signing of the agreement or had announced that it would sign the document and that it would participate in the Marrakech Conference. What has changed for two months to this part is not given to know, but the president of the Council Conte, in some of his speeches, explained that the Global compact for migration is a document that poses issues and issues widely heard and that therefore it is considered opportune to parliamentaryize the debate and put the choices back to the outcome of such discussion, but Italy will not participate in the Conference. In the light of this brief premise, we have asked, together with other groups, to have the opportunity to parliamentariansize the debate, that is, to have the debate in Parliament, in particular in the Senate Chamber, with communications or by the President of the Council or by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and to take a position by voting on resolutions with a view to the Marrakech Conference. As a matter of fact, the way our work is organized, I believe that we would have the opportunity to go further. In fact, this week we can go further in the Foreign Commission and, at the same time, we can schedule - this is the dry proposal I make - communications, at least those of the Foreign Minister, for next Monday, 10 December. Also because, as from the calendar read by the President, on Monday there will be the President's communications on the budget and the House is still convened, so there would be plenty of opportunity to do so. Then there is a second question, which I was told would be examined later, possibly, in January: since yesterday Poland is in progress, precisely in Polish Silesia, COP 24 on climate change. The data, relaunched also by this Conference and a few weeks earlier also by the latest UN IPCC report, are very heavy, which even set the deadline of twenty years before the catastrophe: not the end of the planet, as someone continues to say, but the end of the human species. Well, since even with reference to those meetings it is not given to know if we will confirm the commitments we had made in Paris and if we will confirm the commitment to achieving energy neutrality in 2050 announced by Europe, because we lack a number of elements (we do not know, for example, what happened to the adaptation plan to climate change), we had asked for an information, but also on this it has been postponed to the month of January, hoping that, in the meantime, there will not happen other disasters like those that have invested our country a few days ago. I therefore propose that the information on COP 24 be included in the session on Wednesday 12 December, immediately after the President-in-Office's communications, or even better, on Wednesday morning 12 December, given that the House is nevertheless convened for the communications of the President-in-Office of the Council. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u39	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I too am speaking in accordance with Rule 55 (3) of the Rules of Procedure on the timetable. At the Conference of Group Leaders, which ended before the beginning of this House's work, we put forward a proposal for a different timetable than the one that was then adopted by the Conference. I therefore take the floor to reiterate our positions and to integrate the timetable with the proposals we have already made. In particular, I rise to reiterate our position for an institutional proposal and for a political request. The institutional one is as follows: as President De Petris has just pointed out, during the Conference of Leaders, we asked for a commitment already made at the public session on 29 November, in which Minister Moavero Milanesi said, at the same time, that the President of the Council informed that the Government (...) considers it appropriate that there should be a detailed and detailed debate in Parliament on the matter of the Global compact for migration. Of course, we have all noticed that, just next week, on 10 and 11 December, an important conference will be held in Marrakech on this subject, so we ask for consistency and respect for these institutions and we ask that the Government, through its President of the Council or for a delegate, report to Parliament in good time so that Parliament, in particular the Senate Chamber, can discuss this issue in depth and can, in a clear way, determine the position of our country. I also say this in the light of ambiguous statements that are reported by the media these days, statements by the Government. The reason for my speech, that is the political proposal, is that we asked at the Conference of the Leaders, through President Marcucci - and we still ask this today - that Minister Di Maio comes to the House to inform Parliament about the sad story that has been taken up for days, alas, by all the national media, which concerns his family, his company and the serious facts - as admitted also by his father, Antonio Di Maio - concerning irregularities in the recruitment of workers in black and the failure to report accidents at work, just to mention some of the cases. [[Applause from Senator Leonardo]] Many of these issues remain obscure and still to be clarified and I wanted to be essential but certainly not to lighten the seriousness of this matter. Never, I believe and we believe, that Parliament can and must replace the prerogatives of the judicial authority, but it cannot abdicate its role of political responsibility and supervision over the government's activities. There is no reason why this House does not ask the Minister and Vice-President Di Maio to come to the Senate to clarify his personal position regarding the events mentioned above. Of course, we trust that we will quickly have an answer on this point and that the Minister will be able to come to the Chamber in the next few days. Compared to the proposed integration of the calendar and modification, we believe in the same way that the next two days are the useful ones for the inclusion of an information from the competent minister or in general of the Government on the Global compact for migration.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u42	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group has tabled a motion on the Global compact for migration, expressing its perplexity and therefore calling on the Government not to ratify this agreement, because we have taken seriously the Government's assessment of parliamentaryizing, as is absolutely correct, the debate on this subject. Frankly, we believe that there are times, both during this week's sessions, even today, since the sitting is about to end and it is 4:45 p.m. Such an issue could be discussed immediately, partly because it is a mature and well-known subject, since the document has been circulating for some time. It could also be done in the next few days of the week or, as someone said, starting from a point of view on the substance different from ours (but the merit would be discussed if it could be done) also on Monday. Our request is relevant precisely because the vice-president of the Council, Senator Salvini, in the Chamber - because I did not listen to this statement in the Senate, perhaps I was absent but I saw it on television and it seemed to me that it was in the Chamber of Deputies - said that the government should not sign that act and should not participate in the UN-promoted international conference which, as has already been said, will be held on 10 and 11 December. The President of the Council... Count - I did not remember the name but this is not serious - has expressed publicly several times, even in the UN - and this is also a television image that I was quite clear - when he spoke at the regular sessions in which the representatives of the Governments participate, a largely positive assessment and the other day was dismayed by a statement that evidently did not foresee and that I - I say this for the second time - agree on the substance. In this regard, our Group, as Senator Malan announced this morning as vice-president of the Conference of the Leaders, has tabled a motion on which I do not extend, because this is not the seat, in which it is highlighted as the specific condition of Italy, as a country extended in the Mediterranean, with the migratory problems we know and I do not have to recall here, has an interest in assessing in advance what to do. Agnosticism, that is to say, "I don't go," as Count says, "because they don't send me, basically, or "because I don't know what to say" is not a serious position. It is well known that I do not think of it as Senator De Petris, who also asks, for reasons other than mine, for the debate on this subject, but Parliament and democracy serve this purpose: decisions are taken in the parliamentary classrooms, not on the news! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] First news: "does not sign"; fourth news: "does sign"; repertoire material: "I went to the UN" (then, the television recordings remain). That's not good. Has the debate been said to be parliamentary? Let's do it. It is said that it is not in the contract, but it is about the UN and Marrakech, it is not that the contract that you have made the universal principle and the planet is unified there, so they do not make the Marrakech Conference because it is not foreseen in it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I would like to address my colleagues in the League, who have said the right things on this point: we have tabled a motion to reaffirm our position on this matter and we will explain it when it is allowed, but a debate at Father Dead or at Marrakech celebrated makes little sense and it is not decent to have a President of the Council who takes back what he said and does not go. Have the courage to face this House and say what it thinks. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We do not want to sign that convention, but we want the sovereign Parliament to speak before and not after. We therefore insist on the inclusion - whenever you want, Mr Calderoli, tonight, tomorrow, whenever you want, in a special session or on Monday - of the subject. Everyone will say theirs, there will be different opinions, because we think very differently from the Democratic Party on the issue, but at a time of parliamentary democracy positions of greater homogeneity could emerge. We insist firmly and will say it in and out of Parliament, because it is not that we make announcements to the House and prevent the Chambers from voting on this issue. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u45	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, it is a great satisfaction that the Global compact for migration has become a topic of discussion in the Senate and, before that, in the House. Had it not been for the battles of Brothers of Italy, none of this would have been known: the Global compact would have been signed on December 10 in Marrakech in the total silence of the great media, institutions and Parliament all, because no one had spent a single word on it. It was the Brothers of Italy who imposed the discussion on the issue on the whole country and we are proud of it. We are pleased that the matter has finally become a matter of general attention. The issue is far from secondary, because it concerns the approach of the United Nations and, consequently, of individual states, from here to the future, in the field of immigration. The Global compact for migration is a dangerous document, because it inserts a series of obviousties, such as the protection of human rights and migrants, already widely present in all international conventions on migration and human rights. In all this, however, it is new and the novelty is, in fact, the fundamental right to migrate and the obligation of States to not restrict this fundamental right of the human being. With the Global compact for migration, the end of national borders and states, uncontrolled and unlimited immigration is confirmed: this is the Global compact and that is why a number of states, such as the United States, Austria, Australia, Israel, Slovakia, Switzerland and every day more, will not participate in the Marrakesh Convention and will not sign the Global compact for migration. Italy had declared until yesterday that it would sign the Global compact: the President of the Council said so. On this too we must understand: who is the President of the Council? This is what it turns out to be... president. Excuse me. We're not talking about a subject. We must make proposals in relation to the timetable. If you tell us the proposal, we know what we're talking about. FAZZOLARI (FdI). I'll get to the proposal, ma'am. The problem is that this issue is not secondary. Brothers of Italy asked the House to discuss the Global compact for migration before December 10th and we were told that Christmas night will be scheduled: on December 23rd we will discuss the Global compact: something absolutely ignoble! At the Senate we formalized the proposal to discuss this before 10 December, but we were told no, a few hours ago, to the Capigroup, our motion was not accepted and we will talk about this issue after the Marrakesh Conference on 10 December. Brothers of Italy asks that the debate be held before December 10, because this Assembly and the Government cannot continue to play the three cards: they must say if they are in favour of the invasion of our borders or if they are against it. To continue to make melina on this, not to give an opinion and continue to have the President of the Council and the Minister for Foreign Affairs who say they are in favour of this treaty, while other ministers and the Minister for the Interior say they are against it, is a fool to whom we must not submit the Italian institutions. We therefore call for the debate on this matter to take place before 10 December. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator, do you mean as government communications and the ensuing debate? FAZZOLARI (FdI). As a motion 1-00052, formalized by the Brothers of Italy and the acts of the Offices of the Senate, of which we ask for discussion in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u48	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, it is paradoxical that, while I think of the Global compact for migration in a way completely opposed to my colleagues in the Brothers of Italy, I must say that they are right. Here is a problem that concerns the relationship between Parliament and the Government. We are a parliamentary republic, the government speaks with forked language on a fundamental problem and we are expropriated of the possibility of deciding in the desired and just times. We have a position of the Foreign Minister, who has declared himself willing to come to Parliament, then, ladies and gentlemen, I want to understand: if it is formal and foreign policy, we come to Parliament to report only on the obvious things, perhaps to read what we know very well because we have read it in the newspapers, these information is of no use at all. If there is one point on which Parliament cannot be expropriated of the right-duty to decide, this is the Global Compact, which I believe - let me say only this in a few seconds - that many of our colleagues have not read, because if we think that this agreement is a threat to national sovereignty, we have not understood that the signing of the Global Compact is the only serious way to involve African countries in the management of a problem that we will not be able to solve on our own. [[Applause from the PD Group]] But this is an opinion and as such it is not the parliamentary seat today: it will be the right place on the day when it will be scheduled. I agree with what the PD Group has said in the person of Senator Ferrari: either as an urgent information or as a government communication, I believe it is essential that Parliament takes back its right-duty to decide. I would also add that in the history of the Republic we are full of positions that see a gap within the Government, it is not the first time that two partners of the Government think differently. If we pretend to be indignant because the League and the 5 Stars think differently, it would mean that we have not seen what has happened in the last thirty years, because many times it happens that there are different positions within the same Government. However, here the figure is different: they will compose as their majority believe, but we cannot be expropriated of the right to decide and this cannot happen when the games are already done and our Government has associated with Switzerland (open parentheses, exclamation point, dots, closed brackets). I believe that we should, today, with this vote on the calendar, take back our right-duty. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u49	Are there any other proposals for amendments?
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u52	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, our proposal is to maintain what was agreed at the Conference of the Leaders, rejecting the request to discuss an information on the Global Compact for Migration by 10 December, but not because we want to prevent or expropriate Parliament of its right, but because we believe that, in the light of the statements made by the Government, which said that it will not attend the Marrakech Summit, we do not understand why we should come here to direct the Government to the Marrakech Summit. If it does not participate, there is no need to direct it and therefore there is not all this haste and urgency to have to schedule the information, except for reasons of instrumental and political character. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We accept it, we understand it and we understand it; you are good at making the minority and the opposition and of this we must give you absolutely note, however, if we want to deepen the topic, since I have heard that we must study before understanding what the Global compact says, we study and deepen: do we want to limit such an important topic, an international treaty, only and exclusively to a miserable information, a communication or maybe a motion? Of course not! Parliament must be involved in everything. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] And there is not only the Senate of the Republic, which will also be the Upper House, as some would like to point out, but there is also the Chamber of Deputies. Therefore, we must deal with this issue in a joint sitting, perhaps more than one Commission, certainly the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, because it seems to me to be relevant and competent on the subject. And do we want to forget the Foreign Affairs Committee? Of course not, there too will have to be joint! But since we are talking about migration, there may also be other Commissions that can be involved. That is the real and serious way to tackle international treaties, not political exploitations. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] That is why we rejected your demands, saying that there is economic maneuvering, there is the anti-corruption bill, we have a very busy calendar and we have all taken note of it, we will probably have to stay here on Saturday and Sunday, as it should be. MIRABELLI (PD). There's no maneuver! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Well, we will have all the time, starting in the new year, to prepare a serious discussion on this subject. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u55	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, I agree with President Romeo's words. There was a broad debate at the Conference of Group Presidents, where we explained well that instead we should thank the Government for having decided to parliamentarians the decisions that will be taken on a treaty as important as the Global compact for migration. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] We believe that there is a dignity in this House that must be respected and that the dignity of the House of Deputies must also be respected. It is a debate that will have to go hand in hand and it is a decision that will be taken by Parliament in the freedom of choice that each parliamentary group will then make and I address, through the Presidency, Mr Casini, who will be able to take part in that debate and take the decisions that he considers appropriate. Then, if they are majority voting, they will of course be voting in favour, if they are minority voting in the parliamentary classrooms, they will of course be rejected. I do not see where the problem lies in saying that we are moving this important debate at a time when it can be tackled with the importance it deserves and certainly cannot be done by framing it between a Budget Commission and perhaps a Commission work, for the activities we are producing. For the same dignity as this House, I say that the provocation - I call it this - of the Democratic Party to ask Minister Di Maio to come to the Chamber to report on a subject which, with his parliamentary activity and his activity as Minister, has nothing to do with it and is a problem that has already been well clarified in all appropriate forums, because Minister Di Maio has not shunned public opinion. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] It has not escaped the debate that has taken place, even in very strong tones, in public opinion. He has never hidden himself and, indeed, tried to accompany and facilitate those investigations and those moments of investigative journalism that perhaps too often have been missed in this country. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] So I think you did very well to clarify, where you had to clarify, but this is certainly not the place where you have to do it. MIRABELLI (PD). You have to make it clear in Parliament!
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u56	Senator Mirabelli! Senator Gasparri, do you recognize yourself in the proposal to include government communications in the timetable with related debates and resolutions? I ask you because we have two different proposals: on the one hand, the formula of communications, on the other, that of motions.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u57	Mr President, our Group has tabled a motion, but we recognize ourselves in the formula that allows us to discuss this issue in any case. We shall therefore vote in favour of all proposals to discuss the Global Compact before the Marrakech Summit, to see whether Count is right - and we hope not - or whether Salvini is right, as we think is best.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u58	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposed changes to the timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u61	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, first of all I would like to preannunciate the vote in favour of Mr Forza Italia's proposals, saying that it is true that the Ministers have expressed themselves publicly on the issues which have been requested here, but the role of Parliament is precisely that of being the body before which the Ministers are aware with contradiction, with the possibility of Parliament being able to express itself. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] It is not just the media, otherwise we do not understand what Parliament is doing. That is why we will vote in favour of both requests to have ministers so that they can express themselves, even if only through an information regarding the Minister of Labour, while we ask that on the Global compact for migration there be the possibility of a vote, as Senator Gasparri said, either through the examination of motions or following the communications of the competent Minister. I would also ask for the quorum to be checked. Verification of the quorum Mr President. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the calendar of proceedings of the Assembly
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u64	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I would like you to specify what we are voting for because we are struggling. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I will put to the vote first the proposal, made by Senators De Petris and Ferrari, to schedule the Government's communications; after that, I will put to the vote the proposal to include the motions in the timetable. CIRIANI (FdI). As my PD colleagues have also called for Mr Di Maio to report back to Parliament... We shall put the individual proposals to the vote. CIRIANI (FdI). Thank you, President, that's what I wanted to know.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u65	I put to the vote the proposal to change the schedule of the Assembly's work aimed at incorporating the Government's communications on the Global compact for migration, made by Senators De Petris and Ferrari. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the agenda of the Assembly to include the discussion of motions relating to the Global compact for migration, made by Senators Fazzolari and Gasparri. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to change the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings to include an information from the Government on COP 24, made by Senator De Petris. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to change the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings to include the information of the vice president of the Di Maio Council, made by Senator Ferrari. It's not approved. Mr Ferrari (PD). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u68	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, last Wednesday I spoke in this House to represent, once again, the problem of the mafias operating in the province of Foggia. Today I speak to give good news, but unfortunately also two less good news, indeed definitely bad news. I start from the bad: there have been two attacks against two armed forces. Yesterday they put a bomb under the car of Corato's deputy brigade and this morning they put another bomb under the car of the commander of the Carabinieri station of Cerignola, Captain Michele Massaro. Obviously to them goes my and our solidarity; I expressed similar solidarity to the provincial commander and to the commander of the Puglia Region. The good news concerns the activities of the investigators carried out these days. Exactly 51 arrests were carried out, but I want to be more precise: 30 arrests were carried out in Foggia on Friday 30 November of alleged mob clans. It is the largest operation involving the mafia clan of Foggia city, hitting both the Moretti-Pellegrino-Lanza clan, and the Sinesi-Francavilla clan; on Monday, December 3, 7 arrests were carried out in Manfredonia and in this case too they are alleged belonging to a mafia clan, considered of the Garganic mafia; Wednesday, November 28, instead, 14 arrests were carried out in San Severo. We are, of course, very pleased that we have taken this path and expressed our applause and our full support for investigators, law enforcement agencies and magistrates. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u71	CORRADO (M5S). Mr President, a recent ruling by the Council of State has rightly set Enel right and wrong at the National Environmental Forum and ISDE-Italy, the Medici for the Environment, about the mega-central Enel of the Mercure Valley, located in the heart of the Pollino National Park, between Calabria and Basilicata. It is a plant that burns 350,000 tons of trees each year, transported by over 100 TIR per day. In fact, the judgment is based on an opinion of the Council of Ministers chaired by Matteo Renzi, to whom the Calabria Region, governed by Mario Oliverio, asked to intervene in order to overcome the obstacle opinion of the director of the Park of Pollino. Matteo Renzi replied "present", giving no weight to the fact that the plant does not have the integrated environmental authorisation (IAA), has the impact assessment (VI) expired and that Enel, in the project, has even presented data from a valley different from that of Mercure. Not to mention that we are talking about an ultra-protected area, being a national park, a special protection zone of the European Union and a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Not even Matteo Renzi had the courage to take full responsibility for this, so that the Council of Ministers gave a positive opinion, but subjecting it to a derogation from the Park Plan being approved, which rejects, in a specific paragraph, the Mercure power station. The Calabria Region of President Oliverio, strong of this opinion, has however given the authorization, without waiting for any derogation. The fight of the forum Stefano Gioia (which, alongside the populations of the Mercure Valley, for sixteen years fights against this aggression to the territory, to the health and to the real occupation, tied to the tourism and the agro-food quality) continues without pause, also in opposition to the 'ndrangheta, that has infiltrated the supply of biomass to the plant. Our Government - the Government of Change - and the Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea Sergio Costa must intervene as soon as possible in this very serious event, which has become symbolic at national and international level. The 5 Star Movement, which has been at the forefront of the Mercure plant for years, has - I believe - the obligation to give concreteness to its commitment and its commitments, finally cutting off a scandal created and managed by the old policy on the people's skin and to the detriment of a protected territory that the Park Authority and its President have proved incapable of protecting. The sale of Calabrian territory and its resources must end here. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u74	SICLARI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bring to everyone's attention an extremely unusual fact and, in the opinion of Forza Italia, a very serious one. Minister Grillo revoked the appointment of non-lawful members of the Higher Health Council, the most important technical consultative body of the Ministry of Health. It is surprising to hear the decision of such revocations, since, as almost all the members revoked and as it turns out, Minister Grillo has never met the Higher Health Council, nor has he ever requested any opinion, nor any other support activity. The news has shaken the whole scientific and health world, appearing the decision absolutely arbitrary and without any foundation. If it is true, in fact, that since it is a consultative and supportive body that assists the Ministry of Health, it is true that - legally and politically - discretion does not coincide with the arbitrary and unjustified use of power. It is the right of all citizens, through us parliamentarians, to know the reasons and the reasons for such brutal choices, which could appear as dictated by perverse logics of part in a matter such as public health, which needs, instead, objectivity and scientificity for the superior protection of patients. Mr President, we would like Mr Grillo to come to this House to explain the serious reasons for the withdrawal, how he intends to replace the withdrawn members, and whether this choice does not underlie an exercise of power aimed solely at the battles of his party of belonging and not at the common interest of our country and the right to health of our citizens, which we must protect. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u75	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the Liceo Ginnasio Statale (Gaetano De Bottis) in Torre del Greco, in the province of Naples, who are witnessing the conclusion of our works. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u76	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-12-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-66.ana.u77	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, December 5, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.19 p.m.
