ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u3	The Conference of Leaders approved changes to the agenda. In today's sitting, after the discussion of ratification between Italy and Abu Dhabi on extradition and mutual legal assistance, nine effective members and nine alternates of the Italian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe will be voted by secret ballot on blocked lists. The debate on the draft law on the extension of the time limit for the discipline of judgments before the Court of Auditors, which will take place from 5 p.m., has also been included on today's agenda. Tomorrow morning, at 9.30 am, the inspection union will take place for about an hour. The rest of the day will be dedicated to the work of the Commissions, except the question time at 3 pm. The Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Economic Development, Labour and Regional Affairs will be present. In view of the state of the examination in the Commission, the discussion from the drawing-up office of the draft law on the development of the smaller islands is postponed until next week. At the sitting on Tuesday 9 October, Senators Marcucci and others, and other related motions, on the redevelopment programmes for the suburbs, will be discussed. The other topics on the calendar remain confirmed. The Conference of the Leaders also established that, following the remission to the head office, the discussion of the draft law on self-defense will take place in the week from 23 to 25 October.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u4	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following integration to the program of the Senate's work for the months of September and October 2018: - Drawing of law n. 824 - Amendments to article 20, paragraph 6, of the law 7 August 2015, n. 124, extending the deadline for the adoption of supplementary and corrective provisions concerning the procedural discipline of the judgments before the Court of Auditors (final vote with the presence of the legal number).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u5	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups also adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - amendments and additions to the current timetable and the new schedule of proceedings until 25 October 2018: [[Wednesday, 3 October h. 11-20 - Following draft law n. 771 - Ratifica Italia-Abu Dhabi on extradition and mutual judicial assistance (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Vote for the election of nine effective members and nine alternates of the Italian Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (vote by secret ballot by electronic procedure on lists) - Drawing of law n. 824 - Extension of term discipline judgments Court of Auditors (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Interrogations and questions (Thursday 4, 9.30) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 4, 15 hours) Thursday 4 " h. 9,30]] [[Tuesday 9 October h. 16.30-20 - Motion No 41, Marcucci, and others related, on programmes for the redevelopment of the suburbs - Draft Law No 149 and related - Development of smaller islands (from the drawing up site) (where concluded by the Commission) - Doc. LVII, n. 1-a - Update note for the 2018 Economy and Finance Document - Doc. No XXII, nos. 1, 8 and 9 - Institution Commission of inquiry into feminicide (from the drawing-up office) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 535 and related - National network of cancer registers (from the drawing-up office) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 510 - Vote for political-mafia exchange (from the drawing-up office) (where concluded by the Commission) - Interrogations and questions - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 11, 15) Wednesday 10 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 11 " h. 9,30-20]] [[Tuesday 16 October h. 9.30-20 - Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 18 October 2018 (Tuesday 16, 9.30 a.m.) - Following unfinished topics - Drawing of law n. 233 and related - Teaching civic education in schools (from the drawing up office) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 494 and related - Institution Commission of inquiry banking and financial system (from the drawing up office) (where concluded by the Commission) - Questions and questions - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151 bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 18, 15 a.m.) Wednesday 17 " h. 9.30-20 Thursday 18 " h. 9.30-20]] [[Tuesday, 23 October h. 16,30-20 - Following arguments not concluded - Drawing of law n. 5 and related - Legitimate defence - Questions and questions - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 25, 15:00) Wednesday 24 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 25 " h. 9,30-20]] The deadline for tabling amendments to Law No 5 and related (Legal Defence) will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. The unique scheduled sessions will be suspended in principle between 13.30 and 16.30, without prejudice to the times of the question time. Time distribution for discussion of the Doc. LVII, No 1-a (Note to update the 2018 Economy and Finance Document) (7 hours, including explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1h 13' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion on communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 18 October 2018 (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 44' FI-BP 30' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' PD 28' FdI 18' Mixed 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 15' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u6	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 771, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report and the general debate took place. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u7	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u9	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, with the ratification of these two treaties concluded with the Arab Emirates, those who delinquency in Italy will have one less country to take refuge in the hope of avoiding justice. For this reason, Brothers of Italy will express a vote firmly in favour. In particular, the extradition treaty responds to the aim of intensifying cooperation to combat crime more effectively, taking into account that the intensification of economic, financial and commercial relations between Italy and the Arab Emirates has also led to the development of criminal phenomena that cannot remain without an adequate response. The extradition treaty under consideration therefore regulates the procedures for the delivery of persons sought for being subject to criminal proceedings or for having already been convicted and who must atone for the sentence. Under Article 2, paragraph 1, extradition will always be granted on condition that the fact for which it is carried out is provided as a criminal offence by the two systems (so-called double indictment principle). For the same purpose of the fight against crime, the Treaty of mutual assistance in criminal matters is also aimed, in particular, at establishing the commitment of the two States to lend each other the widest possible cooperation in many areas, including the search for and identification of persons, the service of documents, the summoning of persons involved in criminal proceedings, the acquisition and transmission of documents and other evidence, information on bank accounts, the taking of testimonies and interrogations of suspects and accused persons, the experiment of expert advice, the execution of searches, seizures and confiscates of things relevant to the crime. Finally, information on criminal proceedings and convictions reported by citizens of the two countries is to be exchanged. In conclusion, as I said, with the execution of these two Treaties, it will be easier to ensure justice for those who commit crimes in the two countries and therefore the vote of the Group of Brothers of Italy will be favorable. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u10	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u12	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it may seem plunatic to say that the Democratic Party supports and will vote in favour of this measure because, in line with initiatives already taken in the last parliamentary term and the result of work carried out by the Government and Parliament, it is less plunatic to stress the fact that the conviction lies in the awareness that this measure is a very important part of the fight against organised crime and all the mafias, a battlefield which, as far as we are concerned, is not merely evoked - I would say rhetorically evoked - but in order to be actually practised, and with success, must make use of a precise and up-to-date analysis and follow-up measures. I want to refer to the fact that we are intervening on the international dimension of organised crime and on the adequacy of the instruments to strike it. We are therefore talking about a very important and very topical issue on which Italy has been at the forefront and promoter of the last parliamentary term and on which we also wish to see a commitment in the field of international cooperation, which is fundamental in the fight against illegality. I would like to recall, in this regard, the incessant action taken by the Directorate for Criminal Justice in order to widen the conventional legal basis of judicial cooperation, an action that has affected dozens of countries and different continents: I just want to recall the treaties already concluded with Colombia, Ecuador, Argentina, Uruguay, Dominican Republic, Senegal, Nigeria, all responding to the need to base on binding commitments the collaboration between States in the fight against crime, leaving the uncertain and changing dimension of international courtesy on condition of reciprocity. There will be no more Italian fugitives who will be able to trust in the fact of having at a short distance an easy and safe free port. This is the first concrete result, which puts an end to a series of attempts that had not been successful to obtain the delivery of the fugitives and achieve the effectiveness and credibility of the decisions of our justice system. When we talk about the effectiveness of the sentence, when we talk about impunity or punishment, we mean this: to bring to justice the people who are sentenced, in this case for serious crimes that affect the community, in an overall framework to strike organized crime. In this regard, I would like to remind you that the overall picture has to do with the updating of the audience of crimes (I quote some of them: caporalate, eco-reactions and self-laundering) a new anti-mafia code and a reform of confiscated property. Reclaiming this work obviously is not planting a flag because on these issues we would like there to be a crowd of flags waving. Before we proceed to the vote, I would like to remind you that, if this is the framework, if this is its importance and consistency, Parliament, united not only in this vote but also in the future, must prevent a step backwards. We in the Democratic Party will certainly go sideways to prevent us from going back. I am referring to the fact that we are very concerned about the intention of this majority, expressed in the content of the Security Decree, to make it possible for the private individuals to purchase the property confiscated from the Mafia. This was something that had been tried in 2008, but that Minister Maroni had then corrected. It is already possible and planned to sell confiscated goods, but under certain conditions: they can only be sold and acquired by public bodies. It is useless to say that they can be cautious about individuals because it is clear that, when they are accessible to private individuals, the forerunner is around the corner and therefore all this is frustrated. I want to say at this point that it is not a technical detail. Here there is a difference of approach and I wonder if there is a sharing of this approach in the majority. To say, since there are some critical issues, let's make it possible to sell it to private individuals, it betrays the approach for which, when there are problems, it is worth to arrange because we are Italians. We don't think so. If there are problems, the state must not only intervene to solve them, it must support, be present and make a contribution even with innovations. We took responsibility for the problems of companies in crisis confiscated from the Mafia. We intervened in the last parliamentary term and we tried, successfully, to solve this problem because the property confiscated from the Mafia is not a single subject and exquisitely accounting, but it has a social value, of returning to the community, of reaggregation of a community around an ethical sense of the State and serves to make all this possible and sustainable. In all this there is an idea of common goods. Colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, that on the common goods you have often intervened and intervene, do you agree on this disposal of the common good? Do you agree that confiscated property loses this value? Are you discussing this? We will certainly not backtrack on this. We also ask you to discuss this and we want to see, in the light of the facts, how you will behave and how you will vote on this important issue. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is not enough to vote unanimously on a measure and make some rhetoric about anti-mafia because the mafia changes; it has changed over the last twenty years and, if you really want to fight it, you have to be present, committed and consequent. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u13	I greet, on behalf of the Assembly, the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo (Don Milani) of Terracina, in the province of Latina, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u16	IWOBI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the two Treaties covered by this draft law of ratification and enforcement represent a significant step forward in relations between our country and the United Arab Emirates in the field of international judicial cooperation. The compulsory extradition, firm the compulsory refusal in cases where it is required for crimes punishable by the death penalty, will allow to strengthen the action of contrast to organized crime, also given the social reality, characterized by more and more frequent relations between Italy and the Arab Emirates in the economic, financial and commercial field. In this sense, it is therefore important to regulate in a uniform manner the procedures for the delivery of persons who are subject to criminal proceedings or who have to execute a penalty for the crimes committed. Mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, on the other hand, seeks to improve international judicial cooperation through the exchange of information and the use of important instruments such as confiscation of property. This is a very important fact. Mr President, it is important to reiterate that the intensification of economic and financial relations between the two countries requires the development of judicial cooperation, with a view to combating criminal phenomena, such as money laundering, which hinder the proper administration of justice and increase the profits of organised crime. Mr President, I conclude with this important statement: the Government has at heart the strengthening of Italy's position abroad and its fundamental role in international political equilibrium. The ratification of these two Treaties is consistent with the objectives of the Commission and in line with its political agenda. For all these reasons, therefore, our vote will be in favour. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u19	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, representative of the Government, fellow Senators, the Forza Italia Group will vote strongly in favour of the ratification of the Treaties under consideration in judicial matters signed with the United Arab Emirates. We do so in line with the vote we had already voted in the 3rd Committee on Foreign Affairs, where we had a wide-ranging debate and where, in the end, our Group expressed this intention of voting in favour of the measure. These agreements aim to implement the fight against crime and to improve judicial cooperation of an international nature. We have heard more and more of the trade relations between our countries in this Chamber, and we have also heard more and more of this. We therefore also have more detailed rules to regulate relations in criminal matters and the extradition of possible criminals. Obviously, as highlighted by the fundamental principles of international law, conditions of reciprocity are provided for, so the contested crime must be provided for by both laws. Close cooperation is also envisaged for tax offences, even if they are not exactly comparable in both legal systems. A number of additional cases are also clarified in the Treaties to guarantee the judicial systems of both Contracting States, the prohibition of extradition to a third State (a more than natural principle), and the State granting extradition is to be informed on time of the outcome of the criminal proceedings. The Treaty of Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters signed in Abu Dhabi also has a shared objective of combating crime. In short, with the Treaties that we are going to ratify we should no longer read news of people investigated, accused or even condemned who, in the absence of mutual cooperation between the two States, can turn undisturbed in a happy oasis, that of the golden beaches of the Persian Gulf, become absolutely unworkable at this point. We can approve these agreements quietly, because, as we have pointed out, the reasons why extradition can be refused remain unchanged and anchored to respect for international law. For example, we cannot allow extraditions for political reasons or for other crimes that are not firmly anchored in our positive law in criminal matters. Therefore, the guarantees of respect for fundamental rights are there and reassure us and certainly today we feel that we wish to sign agreements of this kind with all the Arab countries and with all those of the African continent and the rest of the world, at a time when unfortunately very often the import crime goes in addition and often to integrate with that of ours, animating the concern of our people; therefore, every instrument that can limit it is welcome for us. The aim must be to create a global network of countries that undertake to sign agreements of this type. When the network includes all countries, it will be possible to have greater certainty that the guarantees expressed by the rule of law cannot be bypassed. In this sense allow me a digression, remaining in the theme of extraditions. Before concluding, I would like to ask only one question to the representative of the Government: what happened to the practice concerning Cesare Battisti, who was sentenced to life imprisonment in Italy as a multi-murderer, to whom Brazil also revoked refugee status, one of the reasons for preventing extradition? [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups]] Did we forget about the police marshal Antonio Santoro, the jeweler Pierluigi Torregiani and his 15-year-old son Alberto, shot with a bullet in the spine and remained in a wheelchair, dealer Lino Sabbadin and police officer Andrea Campagna? We haven't forgotten them. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Battisti comes to serve a fair sentence in Italian prisons and here we invite the Government (today it is October 3rd) to give us a nice gift at Christmas: we realize this extradition, we must do it in the interest of Italy, I think I can say of this Assembly, of the victims, especially for their memory, and of the family members of the same. With these last considerations, Mr President, I repeat our applause for the draft law under consideration and the vote in favour of the Senators of the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u22	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, I will take just a few minutes simply to announce the obviously favourable vote of the Movimento 5 Star Group on this measure, which is also important because, as we have learned during the debate and also from the news, there are over ten cases of Italian citizens for whom we are awaiting the request for extradition. So I add only one element to the debate, which is to bring to the attention of this House the fact that the Treaty is part of what we call a system of international treaties, which go along with our way of staying abroad and doing foreign policy. As we said yesterday afternoon, we believe it is important to give a signal to our country of a new way of doing foreign policy, and this we can do also with a system of treaties that covers all the gaps present in our system, while accompanying our small and medium-sized enterprises operating in the world. I say this because very often, especially in the last parliamentary term, we have discovered that in the face of an important export to certain countries, there was a serious lack of "diplomatic" coverage. This means that our companies go to work in certain countries, without sufficient coverage at the level of tax treaties and protection of our Italians abroad in relation to pension treatments. We know that as trade and relations with other countries increase, unfortunately, critical situations are also increasing, as in this case. So it is good that our state is attentive to these aspects and it seems to me a very good signal that such acts have been given priority. It is therefore necessary to accompany our way of doing foreign policy even with the proper coverage at the level of international treaties, with a foreign policy adapted to the realities that Italy sees operating not only on the economic front but unfortunately also on the side of illegality. I therefore confirm the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u23	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure and the final vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u26	ENDRIZZI (M5S). I do not know if my colleague is here, but there is someone who votes in his place. Let's avoid this. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u27	I translate for those who had not listened: the pianists are better off with the piano and not at the voting desks. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u28	The next item is the vote on the election of nine actual members and nine alternate members of the Italian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. This vote will take place, pursuant to Rule 25 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, by secret ballot on the following lists of candidates formed upon the appointment of the parliamentary groups. Actual members, senators: Bernini, Buccarella, Di Micco, Floris, Marinello, Perilli, Pirovano, Rampi and Bishops. Alternate members, senators: Fazzone, Ferrara, Guidolin, Laforgia, Marilotti, Rizzotti, Rojc, Rufa and Sbrana. The senators in favour of the proposed lists will vote yes. The opposing senators will vote no. Senators who intend to abstain will act accordingly. I declare open the vote by secret ballot, by electronic procedure, on the lists of which reading has been given. [[The vote will be taken at the next voting time. Live comments from the M5S Group.]] I invite the secretary senators to check the coincidence between the number of cards and the senators present in this House. Montevecchi (M5S). There's a card! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You want to take away the cards that don't coincide with a senator's presence? [[Protests from M5S and LN-SP-PSd'Az Groups]] I declare the vote closed. The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u31	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I apologise, but my colleague next to Senator Bernini is not present and it appears that he has voted by secret ballot: this is not acceptable. I am surprised at my colleague, whom I value for many other things, but in this situation he detects a fall in style and compliance with the minimum ethical duties, even in the face of school children. We can't accept that. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u32	As a later amendment has been tabled, I shall cancel the previous vote. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I declare again the secret ballot vote, by electronic procedure, on the lists of which it has been read. (The vote was followed). I declare the vote closed. The Senate approves. (See Annex B). They are therefore elected, as effective members, Senators Bernini, Buccarella, Di Micco, Floris, Marinello, Perilli, Pirovano, Rampi and Bishops and, as alternate members, Senators Fazzone, Ferrara, Guidolin, Laforgia, Marilotti, Rizzotti, Rojc, Rufa and Sbrana.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u33	Colleagues, having concluded the items on the agenda for this morning with some advance - and I address myself above all to the Leaders, whom I ask you to pay the greatest attention - and having fixed for 17 o'clock the discussion of the bill of extension of time limits for the discipline of judgments before the Court of Auditors, which must then be sent to the House and approved by the weekend (otherwise, the delegation lapses), I propose, if you all agree, to anticipate its examination and discuss it now. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Since no comments are made, this remains the case.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u34	The next item is the debate on draft law No 824. The rapporteur, Senator Grassi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very quick. The draft law under consideration extends for one year the deadline for the adoption by the Government of one or more legislative decrees containing the supplementary and corrective provisions to the Code of Accounting Justice, as set out in Legislative Decree no. 174 of 26 August 2016. The extension of the deadline is necessary in order to be able to issue supplementary and corrective decrees properly meditated. In such matters, the so-called living law is, as is well known, a guiding criterion for correcting such regulations and measures. The extra year that is being brought to the attention of this House is therefore exclusively intended to enable standardization to be carried out in line with the requirements which have arisen during the practical application of the provisions in question. I therefore believe that it is necessary, indispensable and appropriate for the draft law to be voted on in order to give the Government sufficient time to define the measures mentioned.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u36	As you are not registered to speak in the general discussion and as the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene, we proceed to the examination of the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u39	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, if I am not late, I would ask that I speak in general debate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malan, you can speak in an explanation of vote. MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. Given that the measure is clearly requested by the Government, which is responsible for adopting the rules in question, I would have expected to hear a few more details about it. The rapporteur has been very effective in his explanation, but I would like to know more about it, since we are about to adopt the measure without even having the text in this House. We have the utmost confidence, but I believe that we would do our job better if we were to get some more explanation of what the measure involves and to make it necessary to adopt the supplementary decrees. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u40	Senator Malan, I have the text of the measure in my hand, which I believe is being distributed. However, the representative of Forza Italia was present this morning in the Commission when we examined the measure. I put to the vote Rule 1. It's approved. I put to the vote Rule 2. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u43	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we shall abstain on this measure, recalling the importance of Law No 124 of 7 August 2015, which had a significant effect on the efficiency of our public administration, and also of Legislative Decree No 179, 26 August 2016, which concerned the reordering of judgments before the Court of Auditors. Today the majority and the government ask us to have more time to proceed with the enactment of any supplementary and corrective provisions. We see no reason to oppose this request, but we announce to the majority and to the House that we will of course be very vigilant and attentive with regard to the actual content of these supplementary and corrective provisions, because this is a sensitive matter. We are convinced of the work done and of the value of the measures taken in the last parliamentary term, and we would not want the additional time required to make changes rather than corrections: if that were the case, the opposition of the Democratic Party would be very firm and rigorous.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u46	SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group believes that it supports the adoption of the measure. Our vote will therefore follow.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u49	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, I would also like to announce the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group and to thank the Presidents of all the groups in this House for their willingness - including at the Conference of the Leaders - to reach the vote on this measure, the time limits for which are due, in order to pass it on to the House in order to obtain its final approval. I would also like to thank the President of the first standing Commission for his excellent work. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u50	We shall therefore proceed to the final vote, which is an extension of delegation, and will take place by electronic means. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). We hope that the House will also respect the times, as planned.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u53	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, I would like to draw to the attention of the Minister for Infrastructure an inspection union initiative of my own, 4-00392, concerning the failure to define financial coverage following expropriation activities for the construction of the Chieti-Pescara toll-free motorway. It has been about thirty years since this work was defined and a rule of our law provides that, with regard to the definition of disputes relating to this type of infrastructure, the financial cover collected on the accounts of the State. As consortia of local authorities that have logod this infrastructure, we have called for it. There is a delay on the part of the Ministry of Infrastructure, in the responsible Directorate-General, to pay the financial cover necessary to overcome the current situation of litigation, which has given the owners the right of the expropriated plots of land. I therefore ask you and your office, Mr President, to ensure that the Minister of Infrastructure can come to this House to report on the initiatives taken or to be taken to bring to a legal conclusion the dossier of this fundamental infrastructure, which would allow more than one million people to move to the Chieti-Pescara urban area. Thank you, Mr President, for the speed with which the Minister will ensure that you are here. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u56	DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking in this House to re-launch the cry of sorrow that many citizens from my region, Abruzzo, are unnecessarily elevating in the deafening silence of politics and those who for too long have mismanaged them. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I speak to denounce in Parliament the perfect crime that is taking place on them, polluted people who, with great hopes but unnecessarily, have waited for justice for one of the most serious incidents of environmental pollution ever recorded not only in Italy but also in Europe. Last Friday, ladies and gentlemen, the Fourth Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court put an end to the trial for the environmental disaster in Bussi sul Tirino. The purpose of the investigation is to investigate the possibility of commissioning crimes of groundwater poisoning and environmental disaster in the hands of several managers and security managers Montedison, owner of the site for most of the last century. A judicial affair that began more than ten years ago when, on March 12, 2017, the Tre Monti landfill was seized in Bussi, a wooded area right in front of a large petrochemical for years in the management of companies of the Montedison group, discovered by the Forest Corps of the State led by the late commander Guido Conti. Since then there has been a very long preliminary hearing, several accidents of course and even the objection of the President of the Court of Assizes of Chieti, at first identified for having pronounced, during an interview with a newspaper, a sentence, a simple sentence: we will do justice for the territory. The sentence of acquittal at first instance denied the very existence of poisoning and declared prescribed the disaster, considering it manslaughter. Secondly, the decision was overturned by a ruling in which the court of appeal recognized the existence of poisoning of the aquifers, albeit prescribed, and condemned a part of the defendants for aggravated disaster. Those judges considered the claims of the State, the Abruzzo Region, the local authorities and environmental associations to be well founded, condemning them to the payment of provisions. After more than a year and a half, the Supreme Court has reset that result, annulling without deferment the Aquilan sentence; a sentence that has been heavily tampered with because of the behaviour of the Romandini judge that on the popular judges called to decide in question the doubt that in the event of the conviction of those responsible could have been called to repay the damage, all with the background of a mysterious tangent that, as a distinguished member of this Chamber knows, Senator D'Alfonso, would have taken place to guide the trial. At this point it is surprising that the Supreme Court has accepted the reasons for that judgment so heavily questioned for the things said and has made its own the reasons for a sentence, that at this point we can only define manipulated, to clear a process in which the Supreme Court says that there is pollution, there are those responsible, there is the population of the whole Val Pescara that continues - because of these polluted wells - to risk health, but there are not the guilty ones who have to pay. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Thanks to the bad administration of the Abruzzo Region, we have reached the paradox that, for such a serious episode of pollution, the polluters get away with it and perhaps the Italian citizens, are not the Abruzzo people, they will have to pay the expenses to dispollute that site. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The only hope of justice, at this point (and we count ourselves) is that the Minister of the Environment will come forward to find a solution to this problem, so that it is the polluters who pay and no longer the polluted people, who continue to risk their health and have to put their hands still in their pockets to pay for the environmental damage caused by a multinational company and its accomplices who have supported it in polluting a territory that only awaits justice. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u59	FAITH (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today on Colle San Marco, above Ascoli Piceno, the 75th anniversary of the start of the Liberation struggle has been celebrated. The Colle San Marco overlooks Ascoli Piceno and, due to its strategic position, was immediately chosen as a point of collection and struggle by the anti-fascists. Those struggles have forever marked my territory and even our memories. The clashes that have followed in the last years of war between the partisan currents and the Nazi-fascist hosts began in Piceno immediately after the armistice and culminated on 3 October 1943 when, on the Colle San Marco, the Nazis killed the partisans of the place who, among the first in Italy, were insurgent for the freedom of our country. These events allowed both the Province and the city of Ascoli Piceno to award the gold medal to the military valor for partisan activity. Let me therefore remind you here of October 3, seventy-five years ago, because it represents a day of sadness for all of us, but also of deep courage. The commemoration of such violent episodes must serve essentially as a glue between generations, to highlight the importance of historical memory as useful also for the understanding of the present and for the choices we make imagining the future. It must be cultivated as a warning so as not to fall back on the same tragic mistakes and to keep in mind the true meaning and the true values that then led to the birth of Europe. In fact, at a particular moment such as what we are living in, when Europe appears to us unfortunately a rigid accountant imprisoned in its own accounts and not attentive to the demands of the citizens, remembering instead means exhuming the idea and the awareness that Europe itself comes from the vision of a peaceful future and free from bloody conflicts, based on democracy and equality between peoples and nations, and on those values of mutual collaboration and listening that must be respected, today more than ever, in all sectors and in all fields, precisely because the price of their conquest has been too high to forget. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u60	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-10-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-43.ana.u61	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 4 October, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 11.58 p.m.
