ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Castaldi, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 2 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u3	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u4	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u5	Toninelli (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I would like to make a premise. I speak from this House on behalf of the 5 Star Movement, but looking outside, addressing the country, the citizens outside this House. The Senate Assembly will today express its first vote on an important measure, the " Alitalia decree," which concerns thousands of citizens: we would have wanted to face many more important decrees, to support Italian families and businesses and, instead, we are facing a legislature that is already born dead. I have no intention of losing myself in controversy: I think they are frankly useless. I believe that everything has been said; I believe that every single Italian has fully understood what has happened in Italy over the past few weeks. In the recent elections on March 4, 11 million people supported the 5 Star Movement, which with fatigue, but a sense of responsibility, chose to sit at a table. While the establishment held us as a subversive force, we opened a dialogue, we confronted ourselves with another political force and we proposed the realization of a government contract, which contained the demands of the Italian people. Like it or not, we have rekindled a glimmer of hope for this country; we have reminded everyone that democracy is not dead; we have reminded them that there is another viable way; but above all, we have reminded them that there is a country in the flesh, that there are pensioners affected by Fornero, 10 million people living under the poverty line and thousands of companies drowned by the very high tax pressure. We have recalled that Italian households are neither numbers nor matrixes, unlike what the European Commissioner for the Budget, Günther Oettinger, said: The markets will teach Italians how to vote. But do we realize? Oettinger is wrong: the Italians will teach him the real value of democracy. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] These are intimidating tones, as were also those of some international newspapers that, in recent days, have given us scrocconi; periodicals that have teased us spreading the image of an Italian BOT 5 euro with the epic photo of Marco Tardelli of the World Cup of Spain 1982; cartoons that portrayed Luigi Di Maio and Matteo Salvini as two diseases that occur on the body of Italy. How much longer can we accept this? We can't accept it anymore, but unfortunately someone has. How is it possible for a President of the Republic to express a judgment which does not in any way concern the level of adequacy of a possible Minister, but his thoughts and ideas...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u6	Excuse me, Senator Toninelli, the President of the Republic keeps him out. You know there are limits. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]] Toninelli (M5S). I keep the President of the Republic out, but not his responsibilities. PRESIDENT. - The debate is There are constitutional limitations and we cannot cross them. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr President. I will keep the President of the Republic out, but not his responsibilities. Let us be clear, Mr President: no one here wants to question the constitutionally guaranteed prerogatives of the Head of State. In this House perhaps no other political force such as the 5 Star Movement has fought to defend the Constitutional Charter. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] But let me say that it is unacceptable to veto the positions and ideas of a Minister, who logically represent the political direction of the Government and who, in turn, represent the will of more than half of the Italians who expressed themselves in the vote of 4 March. You cannot think of taking the popular will, putting it aside and pulling straight, without immediately and minimally putting the problem. This is also because such behavior can lead to a risk, namely that citizens move further away from political life, even deserting the ballot box. Italy is among the first taxpayers of the European Union and among the founding countries of the European Union. We have always honored our commitments and respected the Community parameters, unlike many other European partners who preached austerity to the undersigned while silently violating this austerity. Italy is a country that deserves respect: its people, the Italian people, deserve respect. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] And the people deserve, President, to be able to influence, because the Constitution provides, the political process by exercising their right to vote. And all this didn't happen. In fact, even worse: it happened when on March 4 the Italians raised their heads with their vote, but they were ignored. At the same time, the principle that it is someone else who decides for us, someone who sits in some office in Brussels, who spends hours on the phone with Berlin and who today praises the birth of a ghost government, I stress: a ghost government. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]] A government that does not exist and that perhaps we will have in the next few hours in this House, a government that does not exist, Mr President, without trust, without a reason, without an identity, without issues and without solutions. Here a possible Government was taken out with a solid majority to put in another Government that a majority does not have it: but we realize what has happened in these hours and these days in Italy? A fact that has no precedent in the history of the Italian Republic. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP and FdI groups.]] But where is the logic of all this? How will the new Executive be presented before this Parliament if none - and I stress none - of the parliamentary groups present has announced that they will support it? There will be no parliamentary group that will place a trust in a government. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP and FdI groups.]] We will become, if this happens, the world's laughing stock and that must not happen, Mr President. We, in addition to the Alitalia decree, wanted to do much more: we wanted to abolish the Fornero law, we wanted to tax Italian companies to boost growth, we wanted to introduce the income of citizenship that would help those, maybe at fifty years, lose their jobs and not be able to reintegrate immediately. We wanted to introduce measures to protect the environment, we wanted to make a law on conflict of interest, which the left has never done in thirty years. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We wanted to make a law against corruption, help the disabled, identify a serious plan for the South and yes, we also wanted to review the Community treaties that damage our economy and our farmers. We wanted to do all this and they wouldn't let us. But if someone, Mr President, believes that we are going to be silent now, they are very wrong. Don't be fooled: the 5 Star Movement doesn't give up. I repeat: the 5 Star Movement does not give up, indeed you are strengthening us every day more. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You're strengthening us. We must return to the vote, I repeat, and we must return to the vote as soon as possible. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]] And we must, rightly and finally, after what happened, mark the ransom of millions and millions of Italians. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u8	I demand to speak in place of the Parent Company, Senator Unterberger.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u10	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I would like to point out to my colleagues that Italy, as the five-star movement leader who preceded me rightly said, deserves respect, but there is no one in this House who has a monopoly on the demand for respect. We all want respect, especially in the face of statements such as those made by Commissioner Oettinger, which are examples of eurostupidity. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV and PD)]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the distinction in this House is not between those who accept something and those who do not accept it, because in the face of stupidity, arrogance and self-harm, we are all Italians on the same side. I would like to point out to the previous Senator something with regard to the international press. Please, let's not be shocked. Criticism sometimes bothers you, especially when you receive it, but I did not see equal indignation by the 5 Star Movement when the governments of Berlusconi, before, and Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri, after, were attacked with equal arrogance by the international press. Total silence. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), PD and FI-BP]] And perhaps, colleagues, there was also someone who took advantage of the reading of these international newspapers to operate, within the country, in order to delegitimize the governments - be they center-right or center-left - that have democratically followed the leadership of our country. Here, colleagues, we're not in the year zero. I say this because there is a comfy representation of everything that is happening in the last hours in Italy, as if we were in the zero year of democracy: according to this representation so far someone would have extorted the country to the people in an undemocratic way; while today there would be someone else, lonely knight, who gave back the scepter to the people. No, ladies and gentlemen, from De Gasperi to Gentiloni, no one here has expropriated anything and the Italians have voted democratically. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]] Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately for all of us, no one won the elections on 4 March. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] I did, I won them in my boarding school! VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Bravo, Bravo! CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). There was someone who won... [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Look, the intolerance you interrupt me with is exactly what you are, because everyone here needs to talk. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), PD and Misto-Leu.]] Colleagues, here is a party that has had a relative majority and there is a grouping - a coalition - that has had a relative majority. However, what had not been told to any Italian was that this coalition was virtual and that the next day a piece of it would break off to make an alliance with those with whom, in the electoral campaign, they had bitterly opposed. And this is a great deception, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]] [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). We've never seen this! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, colleagues, let Senator Casini speak. Everyone has the right to say what he thinks. This is what Parliament is for. CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, if anyone thinks they can intimidate me... [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u11	Please let him finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u12	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). I feel like I'm in a kindergarten. After 35 years, I'm not sure if I have the problem that someone interrupts me. Therefore, no one has won the elections and it must probably be told the Italians that this pact that has been announced to us as the government of the country was not wanted by at least one of the two contractors, who has made fun of the other, taking him into the ditch. [[Comments from M5S and L-SP Groups]] Hundreds of thousands (L-SP). Buffoon! CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Dear colleagues, I understand. I express my solidarity with you, ladies and gentlemen, because I understand that being mocked is annoying, but this is what has happened and is before the eyes of all Italians. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD]] Finally, there is the Constitutional Charter. What was valid for all the Governments of the Republic in the act of appointment of Ministers could not fail to apply for this too. And if you defend the Constitution, with the moral tension that you have expressed, you must defend it all, not at will and intermittently, depending on your comfort. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no government here proud of its expropriation. If anything, there is a government that, for the sake of institutional correctness, is established to prevent the past government from managing, because it is the result of a different political balance, the electoral process. Therefore, if anything, there will be a Government of guarantee, to give the Italians the word you request, as proof of the accumulation of contradictions that have been brought to the Senate Assembly today. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u15	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution is what unites us, beyond the reasonable differences of political direction and ideas, it belongs to all of us and we all have a duty to defend it, when it is betrayed in its deepest meaning. In these hours our Constitution is threatened by behaviour, gestures and intentions that undermine the foundations of our Republic. I invite you, dear colleagues of the 5 Star Movement and the League, to take a step back, because I fear that you do not fully understand the dramatic consequences of your actions. [[Protests from M5S and L-SP Groups]] I would not like to talk about the President of the Republic, but he has been summoned and I say that the President of the Republic is the supreme guardian of the Charter, he represents the unity of the nation... [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u16	Excuse me, Senator Grasso, we have said that we are not talking about the President of the Republic and that is true in every sense. Okay? I beg you...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u17	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Yeah, but no one has the right to drag him into shit that has nothing to do with Republican tradition. I would like to say that in these hours, thankfully, we are witnessing a very wide and widespread manifestation of affection and trust in him and we of Free and Equal we join firmly with those women and those men for whom we are proud and thankful. Having said that, on the political situation, as Members of this House, we will be called upon to give parliamentary dignity to the debate, which has so far taken place through roboating media statements by some political leaders and, on that occasion, everyone will have to publicly assume responsibility for their actions during these weeks. League and 5 Star Movement doubly deceived citizens [[Live comments from M5S and L-SP Groups]] , first by conducting an electoral campaign without ever expressing their real intentions, then pretending for weeks to pursue the intention of forming a political government. In doing so, they have exposed the institutions, Italy and all citizens to very heavy and dangerous international demands. Let us be clear: you have introduced yourself to the strong voters of two unrealizable programmes, in contrast. Then you came to an agreement with the cry of: The themes and not the people, the contents and not the names, the things to do and not the armchairs are important! Then, precisely on a name you decided, irresponsibly, not to start this legislature and to leave the country without a political government, which you also claimed for weeks, with the low calculation of earning some more consent. [[Senator Candiani's comments.]] I want to be clear: in your program - to call it a contract is yet another scam - there is an idea of democracy that we do not like, there is the will to make further discrimination among the inhabitants of our country, there is the idea that Italy is safer by arming people, that the rich have to pay the same taxes as the poor and that, however, everything will be resolved by hunting out a few thousand foreigners. We were and are ready to challenge you here, in Parliament, and in the country... SANTANGELO (M5S). What are you talking about? There's two of you! Grasso (Misto-Leu). .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. You have chosen something else: you have chosen to expose the country and its citizens to great risks (and we see it in these hours) for your benefit. The screams and attacks of these hours are dangerous; you are begging your supporters against the institutions, against the men and women who represent them. Representing citizens is, before a great honour, a huge responsibility; I say this as a man that throughout his life, in different roles, he has proudly served the institutions and that today in this House he does not want to give anything to those who insult them. There is much more at stake than the political issue, some more consensus in the upcoming elections or greater media coverage in the evening news; there is much more at stake than opposing visions of the future of Italy. If we allow the political dialectic to tracify into violent and subversive expressions, if we do not all feel uncomfortable in the face of certain gestures, then it is the same holding of our community that is really at risk. Each political force has a duty to distance itself from such behavior, to condemn them and to take action against its own leaders. It is your duty to assume the responsibility of those who are called to lead a political community. And it is in the most delicate passages that you can see the difference between those who think only about short-term convenience and those who care about the country who say they want to defend. Therefore, have the courage to limit your behavior, your party comrades and your supporters. To hide your mistakes and calculations you are fomenting a hatred that can overwhelm the very foundations of our community. [[Comments from L-SP and M5S Groups.]] We at Liberi and Equal will not be watching. We cannot, like you, accept that the European Commissioner for the Budget tells us that the markets will teach us to vote. But at the same time, we believe that there is no other horizon than that of Europe, which is different, radically different from that of today. We are not nationalists, we do not want to get out of the euro, we do not believe that the solution is to go back. However, we claim the possibilities of an area of criticism that finally builds a political Europe of social and civil rights, capable of overcoming, once and for all time, the mechanisms of austerity and financial speculation. We will launch, in the next few hours, a strong political initiative, on which we hope the civic forces of our country will converge. We will explain to the millions of citizens who look with concern at your irresponsibility that, by your actions, you are putting at risk the quality of our democracy, the stability of Italy, the maintenance of the economy, the savings of families, the credit to businesses. [[Comments from the L-SP Group.]] You are opening the way to a much stronger and deeper crisis than you can imagine. You are mortgaged the present and future of our nation. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u20	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are all here on the basis of Article 1 of the Constitution, which provides that sovereignty belongs to the people. And it is precisely the concept of sovereignty that is being sacrificed today and has been sacrificed in recent days, since the beginning of this so lame legislature, that it has seen substantially eighty-five days of impasse and stalemate. Why do I say that the concept of sovereignty is also being sacrificed today? It is, quite clearly, as no one can escape, either here or outside this House, when the European Commissioner for the Budget Günther Oettinger says - I quote - that the markets will teach the Italians to vote in the right way. The right way, it is said; but how can one teach any people what the right vow is? In these words we find a threat to national sovereignty, an attack on the foundations of democracy, and I have not seen any representative of the Italian institutions rise up and ask for these words to be taken into account. Similarly, beyond Tusk's intervention, we have not seen President Juncker ask for a correction or intervene. All this poses a threat to everyone, to democracy and to sovereignty. It will not escape anyone, neither here nor outside this Assembly, who since March 4 we are in a state, as I said, of impasse in what was initially a political crisis, a crisis of the electoral system, because we voted with a law that Brothers of Italy did not share and that threw the country into chaos; from the political crisis and the electoral system we passed to an institutional crisis. It is called the institutional crisis that even the intervention of the Head of State can't solve, and so it happened. There has been no solution with the two asymmetrical exploratory mandates, and we stress and continue to repeat that a commission should have been given to the center-right coalition, in the figure of Matteo Salvini, who had still obtained a popular consensus that exceeded 37 percent. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and L-SP Groups]] Eighty-five days later, we are still repeating the same question: why was this path not at least reasonable? [[Applause from Senator Pisani Pietro]] It was said that we did not have the majority. Why, maybe the technical government will? I don't think so. Which technical government so far has the numbers to gain trust? We'll see about that. The question we continue to ask is why this reasonable way has not been experienced and taken into consideration. And why do I say "reasonable"? Because in 2013 the center-left coalition, which had reached a lower percentage that did not reach 30 percent, was given an assignment to go and search with very broad understandings a majority of government. So unreasonable, that hypothesis, then it shouldn't have been. So the question is: what action has been taken, what 'neet', what prohibitions to pursue this path? The question remains and we will continue to propose it. But I want to get more specific. Mr President, don't worry, I am not going to touch the most exposed nerves in this country, but there is something I want and I have to say that we want to emphasise. We too have argued that we had gone beyond the constitutional perimeter in the exercise of the powers of the President of the Republic in not accepting a Government for not accepting a designated Minister. Yet, I went to read with great attention and curiosity not already the thesis of those who, like us, supported this, but of those who rejected to the sender what said. I have read the constitutionalist thesis very carefully. I do not mention names, but I quote what a constitutionalist says: "I would rebalance this accusation - that of having attacked the Constitution - precisely in the reverse position. Mattarella defended national sovereignty, the concept from which we started in this House at the beginning of the speech, when he stopped action...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u21	Excuse me, Senator, when one wants to talk about the prerogatives of the Head of State he cannot do so here; there are the appropriate places to do so. You don't want to take anyone's word off here. [[Protests from the FdI Group.]] RAUTI (FdI). President, we have no president. Excuse me, Senator. This debate, which I might not have admitted, was born precisely because of the seriousness of the political situation. But when we talk about the President of the Republic, when we criticize the President of the Republic, you know very well that there is a particular procedure for doing so, which is certainly not an intervention in this House. You know him better than I do - we are all lawyers here - and that cannot be done here. You can do it in proper locations. I would ask you to stick to the rules and nothing else.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u22	And in fact, the rules provide that there are bodies that have not been appointed, I know that well: therefore, even if you want, you could not talk about it. I am quoting the thought of a constitutionalist from a newspaper article: I can say that in this House, if the article has been published! The constitutionalist speaks to us of national sovereignty as a defence, when a political action has stopped - I simply want to finish reading - which aimed to break the European commitments, which Italy has assumed for fifty years and which it is obliged to respect according to Article 11 of the Constitution. - The appointment of Professor Savona, who is certainly competent but favorable...
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u23	Then I'll take your word for it! Okay? If she doesn't stop, I'm forced to take her word for it! We are not here to redo the whole process of the formation of a government that unfortunately has not been there! Okay? SANTANGELO (M5S). And let her talk! GIARRUSSO (M5S). No, we don't agree! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you continue, I'll take your word for it. RAUTI (FdI). Then can I close, with the word removed, simply with a sentence? May I? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But you know what you can and what you can't, you don't have to ask. You're a Member of Parliament and you know that. RAUTI (FdI). I know, in fact, I think I can read... president. Please continue in the perimeter of the Constitution, within the perimeter of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u24	Well, then I will finish by saying only this, which I will certainly be allowed: Brothers of Italy, by the end of this week, will launch a collection of signatures, an online petition and an appeal in defense of democracy through a concept dear to us and our history, which is the direct election of the Head of State. This is our initiative. I conclude by saying that the proof of democracy is not if a people votes, but if a people governs: this, since 4 March it has not been possible to achieve it! [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u27	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, President Toninelli has begun with the consideration that today, at last, this House, Parliament, begins to work on votes and debates concerning Italy, our country, specifically Alitalia. What you have failed to say, but I will say it clearly, is because this Parliament has not been allowed to work in these eighty-five days: because the forces that we have recognized to be winners from the electoral round on 4 March have not been able or, better, have not wanted to make a government for this country! They didn't want to give a government to handle the problems of our national community. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV)]] I would also point out that the European Commissioner who spoke inappropriately received a very precise request, only from the Democratic Party: to resign immediately. I hope that all the other political forces, which today pretend to challenge him, will have the strength, which we have had, to ask him to resign. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and Senator Casini]] Do so now, with their parliamentary groups in the European Parliament! Both the election campaign and these eighty-five days have been characterized by too many misunderstandings, by things not said, in some cases also by falsehood and by bad and bad interpretations of events. The falsehoods are evident in the electoral programs. Falseness has also been evident in the electoral aggregations that have appeared. Things have been promised that were not feasible: it was known, so much so that it has never been explained how things should have been, how the provisions were to be covered. But it wasn't enough. We are not satisfied with the result that has rewarded this kind of attitude, we wanted to go further. 5 Star Movement and League worked on the so-called government contract, an electoral pact, a program full of impossible things, of cover that did not exist, of measures that were not practicable. Some have signed this contract or electoral or government pact in good faith. I believe so: I believe that some have signed in good faith. Others used that tool to get where we got to and where did we get to? You have to have the courage to tell the truth to the country and only because you, in an irrational way, asked to talk about it today that there is another agenda, we do it today, otherwise we would have done it in the country. We will do so today in all the squares of the Municipalities of Italy, we will do so on 1 June, here in Rome, manifesting our strong position of closeness to the Constitution and democracy and to the institutions. [[Comments from L-SP Groups]] You have to have the courage to tell the truth: the 5 Star Movement and - as far as I have read and hear - especially the League did not want to be a government, they did not want to give a government to the country! [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV)]] If they had accepted a government of theirs with within an authoritative Minister, a Deputy Secretary of the League recognized for its competences, who certainly had the political conditions (he had certainly been elected by the voters, which should sound quite familiar to you), today we would be here to discuss the trust in the Government, to discuss the impossibility of carrying out that contract, to find out what the lies contained within the contract. But someone set a trap. Someone wanted to play on the Italians, first to wait for a regional election, then to wait for another one, then, he brought the situation forward because he wants to win electorally on the Italians. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV)]] Today's faces are clear: on the one hand, there is the sadness and disappointment of having been mocked by those who were probably in good faith; on the other, the satisfaction of those who, as clever, wanted to go on this road, dangerous for the country. I repeat: dangerous for the country, as it is dangerous when talking about spreads and it is said that some political forces - specifically, the accusation is often towards the Democratic Party - are needed for the spread. The spread is the costs that have on our current accounts; the spread is the cost that we, as a country system, have to pay to make us pay that money, the spread is the mortgage of our home; the spread is our ability to buy, the life and the quality of life of our families. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV)]] You're smiling about this. You're doing it now. We care about Italy; we care about our country; we care about our national community! [[Comments from the L-SP Group. Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] We have demonstrated this with the seriousness of our government programme. [[Many ironic comments from the M5S Group. Applause from the PD Group]] It did not contain the lies that contained the programs of the 5 Star Movement and the League. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] We've proven it. SANTANGELO (M5S). Look at the President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please let him finish. SANTANGELO (M5S). President, you have to look at her, not us. Mr Marcucci (PD). The lies were contained in your electoral programs. We have demonstrated our attachment to the national community with our government programme and have demonstrated this by recognizing our defeat. We have demonstrated this by waiting for you to make a government, giving answers, which the country and the electoral corps had asked of you and which you have not been able and did not want to give to this country. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Airola]] The latest news is that the secretary and spokesman of the 5 Star Movement, Mr Di Maio, and Senator Salvini have asked for the establishment of the Permanent Senate and Chamber Commissions to start working. That sounds like a lie to me, too. We, Mr President, authoritative and honourable senators, ask for something different: a formal passage from the request for trust of this government of service - I would call it an electoral government - to ask for the dissolution of the Chambers immediately, because at this point we do want to go to the elections, so that we ask for verification! [[Applause from the PD Group. Many comments from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from the M5S and L-SP Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u28	Senator, please finish your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u29	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I would like to end by specifying what I have just said: if you are asking to start working, it is clear that you do not want to go to the elections immediately. It's obvious! [[Applause from the PD Group]] I conclude with one last truth that also corresponds to the last lie: the truth, dear fellow citizens - since we are talking to the country today - is that Cottarelli, the President-in-Office of the Council, [[Comments of Senator Candiani]] that will soon come to the Chamber, it was wanted by this scene of League and 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u30	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education (Alpi-Montale) in Rutigliano, in the province of Bari, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u33	Hundreds of thousands (L-SP). Mr President, before I start my speech, I would like to express some of the views I have shared with my colleagues, hearing those who have spoken before me. First of all, Mr President, it seems strange to me that two members of the Democratic Party are speaking in this House: the leader, who has just spoken, and then Senator Casini, called Oettinger (you tell me what to call her, dear Senator Casini). [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] You, Senator Casini, come to the morale of those who have been elected to a Centro-Right coalition, but you are a master in changing parties. [[Applause from the L-SP, M5S and FdI Groups]] I don't know if it changes more parties or socks. [[Applause from the L-SP, M5S and FdI Groups]] Its political history teaches us that changing from Right to Left, then from Left to Right and then from Right to Left you are always elected, because you always find someone who gives the "caddle" to keep at the end of the month. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] I would remind our colleagues who were here in the last parliamentary term and my colleagues in the Democratic Party, especially my colleague Marcucci, that on 1 June they went to the streets to defend the Constitution, but that Constitution they trampled on with a fake constitutional reform. [[Applause from the L-SP, M5S and FdI Groups. Comments of Senator Verducci]] You had launched a constitutional reform that took away the right to vote for Italians! I would also remind President Marcucci that they told us that there would no longer be any question of trust in this House, but who was sitting in the government to say that he would no longer ask for trust in this Senate now is the senator. [[Applause from the L-SP, M5S and FdI Groups]] Whoever told us that senators should no longer be elected is senator now. [[Applause from the L-SP, M5S and FdI Groups]] Colleagues, it is before the eyes of all that from March 5 to today the League with the center-right allies and the 5 Star Movement have acted responsibly in the interest of the Country [[Comments of Senator Collina),]] trying to launch a government that could begin to give immediate answers to the needs of Italians, in a complex context created following the electoral response.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u34	Please: you may not agree, but let me express my thoughts quietly.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u35	Hundreds of thousands (L-SP). President, I'm used to it. I remember, to those who may be a little more distracted, the many attempts made in recent months to unlock the situation. The League has asked for an assignment to form the Government on behalf of the winning coalition of the center-right, without obtaining a positive response. The 5 Star Movement sought a contact with the Democratic Party in order to form a government, obtaining a refusal, as it was unavailable to sit at a table to deal with pentastellated colleagues. Then don't tell us that we wasted your time: we waited for days for your party meeting, because you had to decide what death you had to die of! [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S Groups]] The League has asked, obtaining a positive response, its allies to take a step on the side, so as to try to find an agreement with the 5 Star Movement to give a government to the country, increasingly restless because of the situation of institutional political stalemate. The 5 Star League and Movement, laboriously and generously reached an agreement on the government program, identified a Premier candidate, agreeing on the criteria for defining the team that that program should have achieved. A balanced government programme in line with what is necessary for the country to share and give confidence to our citizens. A government program that has as its key points the revival of the economy, security, justice, a more efficient school (after your "good school," it didn't take long), a different management of migratory flows, an international policy that should have seen our country protagonist, an up-to-date Premier and a government team composed of high-value political and technical representatives recognized in Italy and abroad. All this with a parliamentary majority, which is of no small importance, willing to give confidence to the government that was about to be born. On Sunday, we learned the President of the Republic's reservations about some names, indeed, better, about a name, reservations which, in our opinion, conceal reservations about the government program, due to incorrect interpretation and media pressure also exercised by the foreign press. I'd like to read you the part of the government contract program. But I don't. [[Ironic Comments from the PD Group]] RICHETTI (PD). No, no, thank you! MIRABELLI (PD). We read it. Hundreds of thousands (L-SP). No, I don't. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to go through the president's bell all the time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I played it for another reason, Senator Centinario. Hundreds of thousands (L-SP). Anyway, colleagues, you find the government program, and if you can read it, do it. [[Comments from the PD Group]] 5 Star League and Movement, responsibly, have therefore taken note of the situation that came to create and the impossibility to follow up their idea of giving the country a Government committed to the realization of a program, the result of a challenging confrontation, started from different positions and sometimes very distant. 5 Star League and Movement have returned to the prerogatives that the Constitution assigns to the President of the Republic and will assess with favor any hypothesis that allows the will of citizens to express as soon as possible a vote that assures the governability of the Country: Marcucci, let's vote now! Let's confront each other and fight each other. You're gonna be like panda, less and less! [[Applause from the L-SP, M5S and FdI Groups.]] What happened in these hours leaves us grounded and perplexed, President: the task of forming a government team to Dr. Cottarelli, knowing very well that the appointed Premier will not be able to pass the test of the parliamentary classrooms. A post conferred a few minutes after blocking our Government, which was about to be born, and after a statement that painted that government project like that of those who wanted to get out of the euro and sink our country. We challenge anyone to find a single line in the government contract that talks about exiting the euro: we challenge anyone to find a single line that leads to thinking about an irresponsible project. In these long weeks the working group has always worked to give a better future to our young people and never to put our people in trouble [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups.]] We turned to the Italians for good, to those who pay taxes, to those who every morning have the luck of being able to go to work, to those who unfortunately do not find a job, to our young people forced to escape abroad, to those who wait to retire decently and to those who are retired already; to the entrepreneurs, submerged by taxes, who fail due to claims against a State hard to ask for the payment of taxes, but bad payer of their debts. In these hours, ladies and gentlemen, one European Commissioner said: The markets will teach Italians how to vote. Italians must not take lessons of fake democracy from anyone, especially your friends, who you have supported all these years. [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups. Comments from the PD Group]] Our motto is "first the Italians" (yours I don't know, we haven't understood it yet) and we proudly claim it. [[Comments of Senators Cyrinna and Pharaoh]] We have not been able to implement a government now, and we are also sorry for all those people who believed in us and who stopped us on the street and encouraged us to move forward. Colleagues, we are rich in one thing: we have the strength of ideas; we have the strength of our senators and our Members, who have been elected by our citizens; we have the strength of all those men and women who have believed and believe in our work and are ready to vote tomorrow. Mr President, we will vote again tomorrow and we will send you home again! [[Applause from the L-SP and M5S groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u38	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, I must confess that I have listened with great, great respect, as we always do in this House, to the speeches of my fellow Members who preceded me, starting with the speech by Mr Toninelli, who started this discussion on the current political situation. Frankly I do not take the spirit - but I adapt myself - of these communications. I believe that this is a debate that will make sense when a government comes to this Parliament and we decide, each for its own part (it seems to me that each of us has already anticipated our intentions), whether or not to grant trust. However, I was impressed by a number of points made by previous speakers. The first issue, which I believe is fundamental to the people who look at us from the outside - it seems to me that these speeches were very, very much oriented, and it seems to me legitimate, to be heard by the people who look at us from the outside - is our position vis-à-vis Europe. Well, ladies and gentlemen, some of you are withdrawn from an attempt at a government contract, we have always had the strength of our positions: at the moment Europe - a portion of Europe, a portion of Europe's representation - is certainly not helping us. It is clear that the statements made by the Commissioner on the Oettinger budget are an offense against our country. ( [[Applause from the FI-BP groups.]] No one can afford to tell Italy and the Italians that the markets will teach us to vote! It is also true, ladies and gentlemen, that we cannot afford to leave our country in such a stalemate that the Italians, our first causes, our representatives, the Europeans, the world look at us with a suspicious attitude to our ability to find a solution to this crisis. Look, I would like to be very clear with you, really: we in Forza Italia on the point of vetoes, discrimination and exclusions do not accept lessons from anyone. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group).]] When we introduced ourselves in Europe, Silvio Berlusconi, first among the great European leaders, was critical of austerity, critical of the overpower of the Euroburocracy, critical of the Paris-Berlin axis, or Merkel-Sarkozy who says he wants to, paying on his own skin the price of this critical attitude. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Paying him to the end, with exclusions that not only our history, but the history of our country, all of it, still has to tell. We were once again the first in Europe to say that it was wrong to wage war on Libya. Why do I make such a point, colleagues? While we discharge our tensions over ourselves and Europe, there is someone in Paris, Macron, who is currently holding a conference on Libya, in fact taking the place of the United Nations Organization and trying to exert influence over an area that has always been ours, Italian, before bad choices were made. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We, once again, were the first - and that is why, forgive me, with a little assertiveness we hear ourselves saying that we do not take lessons from anyone - to say that it was profoundly wrong to impose economic sanctions on Russia, which for the first time in history do worse to those who inflict them than to those who suffer them. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] We receive more damage from these sanctions than from Russia itself. Why am I telling you all this, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen? Because this is the time for decisions; it is the moment when the whole of Europe, the world and Italians really look at us and expect an authoritative government from us. We say this, Mr President, without quoting and taking critical attitudes, but with a bitterness towards what has happened, in these eighty days and more, since 4 March. We would really have thought it appropriate, logical, I dare say right, for an assignment to be given to that centre of the right, which has not only acquired a consensus of the Italians of 37% of the votes, but 43% of the seats in Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] And we strongly wanted to propose to Parliament a programme of government, a great appeal on shared and inclusive points, in the centre-right direction. We have proposed Matteo Salvini as President of the Council, but we have not been given this task. Mr President, I do not quote, but I note with great bitterness that this has been a great missed opportunity, because it has been the cause of subsequent situations. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , where once again, ladies and gentlemen, we have shown no responsibility, which is now an abused word, but certainly far-sightedness, fairness and common sense, taking a step forward - as Mr Centinario said - to allow the country to have a government. We have said that there are so many problems - and I do not want to evoke suggestions that have been used against us in the past - that we need an authoritative government: that is why we have decided to take a step forward towards governance. It wasn't enough. What is the solution for us? The most natural, that of giving the word back to those who, alone, at this moment have the right to speak: the people, the sovereign people. Returning to elections bringing back Forza Italia on the path of a united centre that is able to re-propose our program in ten points, which has already been validated by our voters, by the country, who have guaranteed and given him consent. This, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, is our position on a subject which I think deserves much more than this to be distorted. I repeat, I refer to some suggestions for points which have been brought to the attention of this House, but above all of the outside of this House, of the Italians, of all those who are looking at us, but urging all of us, in addition to the imposition of problems and mutual criticism, to find a solution soon. Our solution is this, we strongly believe, we cannot afford to lead to further discrediting policy. We cannot allow our voters to be further demotivated to express their vote and to express their consent, which is in any case configured. On 10 June we shall vote for the local elections, we know that. We must strongly motivate the country, to make it clear that now we need it to speak again in order to give Italy that strong, authoritative, effective Government capable of solving the problems and emergencies of the country that at this moment, here, has not been generated. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Candiani. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u39	The Conference of the Leaders, meeting on Wednesday 23 May, approved the schedule of work of the current week, which provides for the examination of decrees-laws on the disposal of Alitalia and on the functionality of the Authority of regulation of energy networks and environment, with sessions until Thursday 31 May. Pursuant to Rule 55, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure, as amended by the recent reform, the Assembly will hold unique sessions, with suspensions between the afternoon and afternoon sessions, communicated only as an indication. Therefore, the sittings of tomorrow and Thursday 31 May, from 9.30 a.m. to 8 p.m., will normally be suspended between 1.30 p.m. and 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u40	The next item is the debate on draft law No 297. The rapporteur, Senator Turco, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the decree-law on our examination amends in three points Article 12 of Decree-Law No 148 of 2017. In particular, the deadline for the completion of procedures aimed at defining the extraordinary administration procedure of Alitalia - Società Aerea Italiana SpA from 30 April of this year to 31 October 2018. In addition, the forecast that the financing to Alitalia will be repaid by the end of the current financial year is deleted, providing that the loans granted for a total amount of EUR 900 million will be repaid by the deadline of 15 December 2018. The aforementioned rule, in force until the entry into force of the decree under consideration, i.e. Article 12, provides in fact two differentiated deadlines: for the quota of 600 million euros, granted by Decree-Law No 50 of 2017, the refund is expected by 30 September 2018, while for the quota of 300 million euros, granted by Decree-Law No 148 of 2017, the refund is expected by the end of the year of the same year 2018. At the technical level, the loans in question, which are granted respectively for indivisible management needs and to avoid the interruption of the public service, are guaranteed by prededucibility and give a six-month Euribor with an increase of 1,000 basis points. The rate currently stands at 10% per annum. It should be noted that the technical report attached to the measure states that the rule does not impose new charges on the State budget, nor any financial effect, since the new maturity of the financing falls within the same period previously identified. As noted by the Senate Budget Service, however, it should be verified that there is no financial impact on the needs resulting from the two-and-a-half months extension of the repayment of the 600 million euro share of the financing. This is to the extent that more financial burdens and needs could be generated by the State, than to finance itself, could be used to issue government debt securities, with associated interest charges. It is appropriate to dwell on the alternate and sometimes irresponsible vicissitudes that have characterized, from beyond two lustres, the management of the problems that have hit, unfortunately, our flag company. It should also be recalled that the current Air Company Italiana SpA has reached the inglorious conclusion of being admitted to the extraordinary administration procedure, last, by decree of the Minister of Economic Development of 2 May 2017, pursuant to Articles 1 and 2 of Decree-Law No 347 of 23 December 2003 (so-called Marzano law). By the same decree the commissionary college of the company was appointed, in a number of three members, one of which is already part of the previous administrative body. The documentation accompanying the decree of admission to the extraordinary procedure, made known only recently, shows a large deficit in the balance sheet. The updated data at the date of 28 February 2017 show a situation so structured: a capital deficit falling within the scope of Article 2447 of the Civil Code, with equity below the legal minimum, i.e. negative of 72,8 million euros, due to persistent economic losses achieved, amounting to more than one billion euros; a manifest state of insolvency resulting from a permanent situation of monetary imbalance, with current liabilities, i.e. poor within the twelve months, of about 2,3 billion euros, against current assets available of only 921 million euros, insufficient to meet the commitments entered into; a structural financial imbalance, with a total debt of more than 3,2 billion euros, unbalanced in the short term and inexplicably addressed to finance, for about one billion euros, non-productive financial assets, i.e. financial credits and derivatives. From the technical point of view the causes of this announced failure must be sought mainly in the business model adopted, which has favored mainly short-range flights, with consequent unreasonable progressive disengagement of the offer on the intercontinental connections. This has exposed Alitalia to the increasing competition of the low cost companies, with consequent gradual decrease of the profitability. The strategic choices were partly conditioned by the small resources invested by Alitalia's members, insufficient to support long-term investments and to favour more profitable trade strategies of long-haul flights. In this mistaken strategic vision, the fleet of aircraft for non-European connections was progressively reduced and sold in 2014 to Etihad, after its entry into Alitalia's social base, even take-off and landing rights, the so-called slots, on the London airport. On the latter operation, although doubts persist about the economic convenience of the transaction itself, which in fact forced the company to deprive itself of an important strategic asset, the possibility remains, according to the commissioners, of being able to buy back these rights at the same price of sale realized. In the course of the management ante-commissaramento they have impacted on the mentioned economic losses is the sensitive reduction of the operating revenues, in particular those relative to the passengers, and the elevated costs of the fleet, mainly attributable to the extra costs of the maintenance and leasing contracts, is the high costs of the computer system and the financial burdens, between which those on the derivatives for the cover of the risk of exchange and the oscillations of the increase of the fuel. The latter proved to be both exotic and pionatical, in a period of continuous reduction in oil prices. Following the admission to the extraordinary administration there was a real lack of information, which inevitably increased the confidence of stakeholders and could affect the same process of sale of the business complex still in progress. In fact, it is not drawn up and approved, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 2364, of the Civil Code, the 2016 financial statements, which, as you know, should have been resolved by 30 April 2017, as well as the absence of accounting documents in the application for admission to the extraordinary procedure. In fact, in the course of the survey, it was found that there would be no deposit, at the Registry of the Court, of the balance sheet updated to no more than thirty days from the application for admission to the procedure, the filing of the accounting documentation and the report on the cases. The absence of accounting information was partly found in the same commissioner's management, where the same supervisory committee confirmed the failure to draw up quarterly reports under Article 61 (2) of Legislative Decree No 270 of 1999, to be presented to the Ministry of Economic Development from the beginning of the extraordinary administration procedure. Also in terms of information, the Italian Government's not timely communication to the European Commission regarding the loan granted, which took place only in January 2018 for the entire amount provided (€900 million). The notification followed a number of complaints received by the European Commission in 2017, which claimed that the loan constituted aid incompatible with existing European rules. The European Commission press release of 23 April 2018 reporting the statements of the Commissioner responsible for competition reports that an in-depth investigation is under way to assess whether the loan constitutes State aid and whether it complies with EU rules on aid to firms in difficulty (ex Article 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union). In particular, the Commission is concerned that the duration of the loan exceeds the maximum duration of six months provided for in the Rescue Loan Guidelines and has doubts as to whether the aid is limited to the minimum necessary. The amount of funding granted, in fact, more than providing for a momentary state of necessity, seems to be granted to start a restructuring without the relevant rescue plan being submitted in advance. The data from the hearings demonstrated the consolidation policies initiated by the Commissioners, aimed mainly at safeguarding operational revenues and at containing strictly operating costs. The management results, however, are still mixed. Particularly significant are the reductions in operating costs, as well as the increase in revenues. However, the final results of the May-December period still show a negative economic result of -168 million euros. To exacerbate the above-mentioned economic framework, it should be borne in mind that the examined economic situation did not take into account the non-recurring negative aspects and the impact of the financial burden. In view of this possible perspective, the Special Commission has examined, discussed and approved amendment 1.1, as reworded in text 2, in the light of all the proposed amendments. It is in the eyes of all that, in the event that extraordinary solutions such as access by new investors and/or state participation in Alitalia's capital should not be introduced, it will be inevitable to witness yet another failure of the company, from which would result serious and uncontrollable employment, social and economic problems. It therefore becomes irresistible, and more than ever current, to quote the famous phrase of the great Nietzsche: The remedy was worse than the evil. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u42	I would like to address the whole Assembly's greeting to the representatives of the Institute of Higher Education Francesco De Sanctis in Sant'Angelo dei Lombardi, in the province of Avellino. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u43	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u44	Mr President, it is with great pleasure that I can invoke you with this qualification in this House after working together for a few years. The rapporteur summed up the Commission's work with precision and punctuality. A way of proceeding that has characterized all the measures examined: 20 or 21 - President Crimi will correct me, if I remember correctly - that they have recorded a unanimous general consensus, testifying that there is therefore the possibility of working together. In the specific case, the one under consideration was perhaps one of the very few measures which, although unanimously agreed, I disagreed with the addition of a paragraph. This disagreement, which is not present today - which is why I shall vote in favour of the conversion into law of this decree-law - was born of only one element. The paragraph that was added had its own specific connotation that was correct, but my concern and that of my Group was whether it was necessary to run the risk that that addition would be interpreted as a hypothesis of non-properness towards the Commissioners where during the hearings we had a follow-up of consent to their action; a consensus also supported by the statistical and economic data that characterized their management. Why did I have this concern? Personally - but I think I also interpret the thought of many of you, colleagues - I would be happy to have an Italian carrier with the Italian flag, that is, a flag carrier, but this should deal with the costs and the possibility of continuing to manage it. And then, in the face of this impossibility, we must try to have a carrier that - even if it is not owned by the Italian State, but by other companies - is characterized for a particular attention to the needs of our country. Our country must compete from the point of view of the tourist competition with Countries like France, Spain, and other Countries of the Mediterranean and cannot run the risk that the carriers go in their main hubs with the consequent impossibility to have the direct management on our ports of call and our airports. There is a need. Well, if there is a need for sale, we must ensure that, at the same time, there is an appreciation of the market for a brand. We have a fortune. The Alitalia brand, still today, in the world has its own characterization and dignity, both from the point of view of the professionalism and ability of the pilots and from the point of view of the management of the mechanical park, if I can call it that. In other words, we have the opportunity to teach others how to manage aircraft maintenance. This is a brand that, therefore, still has value today. Each of us who has a minimal experience of flight with other companies, knows and recognizes how in the world to say Alitalia is synonymous with safety: safety in flight, safety in vehicles. A criticism, though nuanced, could then remove that halo of skill that characterizes the Alitalia and that we must guarantee in order to arrive not only to a better sale from the point of view of the economic return, but a sale that guarantees, through the agreements that can be assumed, a carrier that has characteristics very similar to a flag company. For this to happen, a strong government is needed, with the ability to dialogue on these matters. I believe that there is a great deal of difficulty at the moment in recognizing a capacity of the Government, either the current one or the one that can come in the near future, even if it was the newly appointed political one. It is necessary, however, to have that minimum of spatium deliberandi in order to achieve at best an objective which I interpret as common after what we have said in the Commission and which the rapporteur has reiterated here. That is why I shall vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u45	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u46	Mr President, we are intervening in this House today in a surreal climate. We are talking about a fundamental topic for our nation but it is clear that our head is unfortunately elsewhere. We try to focus on an equally important subject, but it is clear that the climate is quite surreal. I would almost like to say that, rather than talking about Alitalia, we are talking about "Ah, Italy" for those speeches that we have made so far. I would like to say one thing to you, Mr President, because you are our representative and you have been elected by us. I have heard applauses representing the vast majority of this House and, in my opinion, this is an important signal. It has touched me a lot, not so much as a senator but as a citizen, to hear a House covered by the majority of applause and then to listen to what is happening outside this House. But let us come to the theme of this decree-law. This decree-law will be converted, I don't know by which majority. We do not know who is sitting in those benches and whether it is some reminiscence of a party that, most likely, in July will disappear definitively from the memory of the Italians, or maybe not. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is clear that most of the problems we are discussing have been generated by you. It has also been generated within the Ministry where Deputy Minister Bellanova has lived in these years. The Ministry of Economic Development is central, in my opinion. I have taken a lot of care of this Ministry because very interesting things happen inside it: all the corporate crises in our country pass, which very often have been managed lightly, to use a euphemism, Deputy Minister. The Alitalia theme was lightly addressed. This will also be said by my colleagues shortly in our amendment phase, because this is something that is evident. This, in my opinion, is related to what we said before and, that is, to the fact that Parliament during the last parliamentary term - and, even more so, now - is completely deprived of the power that has been assigned to us. It is also true in the case of Alitalia because it has been managed in a manner that we have contested. We were never informed of what was going on. It is true for this dispute, but also for many others who have also passed through your table, Deputy Minister. That's what we've always said. We have challenged this method of dealing with these issues in the past, and we will also challenge it at an amending stage by asking for more information. Then there is the issue of Commissioners, how they are appointed and managed. It is not only true for Alitalia, but also for all the corporate crises that pass through that Ministry and that you have managed. This is a subject that we will probably have to deal with and review completely in the next parliamentary term. We will have to rethink completely how the Italian Government and Italy manage the corporate crises. Certainly not the way you've done it so far. I stop here because my interest was simply to leave some of my work blank in the last parliamentary term, which has just ended. I close by saying a few things. Someone said earlier that there are no winners, but we certainly know who lost the election. At least one thing this election gave us. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] President Grasso made accusations to the Five Star Movement. He probably has a short memory, because all the scum that he condemned was the one who calendarized them. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Maybe he could think about it a little bit earlier. The Democratic Party in great institutional respect calls for the resignation of Commissioner Oettinger and this increases the degree of political schizophrenia of these moments. As explanations of vote will soon take place, I do not know how my Group will vote on this measure. Commissioner Oettinger will certainly not tell me, but my colleague and friend, Senator Cioffi, who is a citizen democratically elected by Italian citizens because my vote counts! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u47	Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u48	Mr President, you're used to seeing me downstairs, but I'm up here now. I will speak for ten minutes of Alitalia, unlike what my predecessor did that, not knowing what to say about a great Italian company, he "threw it into a caciara." LUCIDES (M5S). Shut up! Then you tell me what you're talking about. CIRINNA' (PD). We've known our colleague since his previous term of office. We know exactly how we will vote on this measure, we do not expect anyone else to tell us. [[Senator Lucidi's comments and protests.]] We will vote in favour, because we will vote exactly for the good of Alitalia, of the workers and of our country. The decree-law presented by the Government authorizes the extension of the sale procedure in order to maximize the results of the liquidation, guarantee the social creditors, preserve the productive assets of the enterprise and safeguard the occupational levels (which is what really interests us at this time). Thanks to the decree-law in question we had the possibility of a postponement to 31 October 2018 of the deadline within which the procedure of cession will have to be completed. We are faced with a financing already underway of 600 million euros, which has been granted in order to meet the indivisible managerial needs of the Alitalia company, while the additional one is aimed at guaranteeing the fulfilment of the transport obligations and avoiding the interruption of the public air service. That is why we are interested in this decree-law and we will vote for it. A lot of work has been done on the fate of Alitalia, in particular by local authorities (of which I have followed the work a lot), first of all by the Lazio Region, the Municipality of Fiumicino and the Municipality of Rome. You should be interested, ladies and gentlemen, because the City of Rome has also dealt with the Alitalia issue. These local authorities have taken care of it so that they do not stand by and watch what happens, but try to make a contribution with solutions and proposals. One thing is certain: it is the most serious employment crisis affecting the territory of the Lazio Region and the whole Roman area, with epicenter in the Municipality of Fiumicino. Precisely for this reason, proposals have been presented by our local authorities to relaunch the company, calling into question the large companies with participation of the State that deal with transport, energy and maintenance. In addition to the plan previously presented, an in-depth analysis and further contributions can be made. It is not the case to analyze only the state of crisis of Alitalia, but it is necessary to try to signal also possible lines of development for the company that with the extension offered from the decree-law in question become possible. Let's start from the analysis of the main causes of the three successive defaults that, one after the other, in less than ten years have hit Alitalia. In order to do so, we can only refer to the 2015 budget, because it is the last public budget deposited. From that financial year 2015 it is evident the main criticalities that have plagued Alitalia for some time immemorial and that they have never found serious solutions, real and concrete; it is also appropriate to point out that the theorem according to which Alitalia is a ball to the foot for the Italian State that affects for decades on the pockets of the taxpayers has a high rate of what is mixed with populism. Alitalia is a great Italian company and, as such, deserves every effort for its rescue. It is clear to everyone that Alitalia is not any private company; Alitalia has been and still is our country's business card in the world and, as my colleague Caliendo has said, it still has an important value for many consumers on every continent that still today choose Alitalia despite the events that have happened since 2008 to date. More than 20 million passengers are transported - always according to data 2015 - with a fleet undersized and uneven, but they are the tangible proof that there is still confidence in this company. It also seems inconceivable that a country with a touristic vocation like ours can remain without its own flagship company, considering the impact of the voice tourism on our trade balance. Let's now examine, from the 2015 balance sheet analysis, the real main costs that Alitalia supports. Unfortunately, this is an excessive expenditure. Think that the first item is 700 million for the fuel, then there are 600 million for the costs not related to the management; 600 million for the leasing of the aircraft, including the leases according to the formula aircraft, complete crew, maintenance and insurance (ACMI) and block space; 500 million for the staff; 400 million for costs related to the maintenance of the fleet; 300 million for the costs relative to the operations of port of call, handling and airport charges; 250 million attributable to the rights of overflight and finally 100 million attributable to the costs for the system of booking and sale of the tickets. 18.15 p.m. (Following CYRINNA). Among the costs highlighted, these numbers that I have read to you, these eight cost elements, the only ones that by incidence are to be in line with the European standards of all the other countries, are those relative to the staff and the rights of overflight, the airport charges. All other cost items are clearly far from any redeeming logic. Let us now examine the first item, the most disproportionate of all, the cost of fuel that even affects the full cost for about 20 percent. Considering the number of aircraft in the fleet, their type, routes and hours flown in the year 2015, it turns out that Alitalia paid for the fuel around 20% more than the market values. Another item to be taken into account is the cost of leasing aircraft. Alitalia has the worst leasing contracts ever negotiated in modern aviation and not only for the monthly installment related to aircraft hire which is about 15% higher than the market average, but also for economic conditions related to maintenance reserves and delivery conditions that are absolutely disproportionate, totally out of all market logic and burden the company's accounts for hundreds of millions. If that is not enough, you need to know that Alitalia rents some airplanes according to a formula called Wet Lease or ACMI which is the acronym for a rental model that includes, besides the aircraft (aircraft) also the crew (crew), the maintenance of the aircraft (maintenance) and the insurance of the aircraft (insurance). This chartering formula is absolutely uneconomic and was established only to give the possibility to airplanes to cope with any failure of an aircraft of their fleet, replacing it for a limited period with an aircraft operated by another company especially in order to protect the passenger's rights card in the matter of re-protection of the flight. Alitalia instead, making a serious mistake, uses this formula of chartering with Ethiad regional (that is nothing more than the regional company of Switzerland Darwin) operating routes that instead could be operated in own with the members of own fleet with remarkable savings. It is to be thought that perhaps it was necessary to help the Swiss company in the use of aircraft, in the exclusive interest of member Ethiad who would otherwise have had to cover also the abundant losses of Darwin, beyond those of Air Berlin. We come to another expenditure item that is always quite important, which is the one relating to the costs of aircraft maintenance. Alitalia, from 2008 onward, begins a process of outsourcing of maintenance which is one of the primary causes of the subsequent disruptions of the airline. Those of you who attended the airport workers - I would ask you for a moment - will remember what and how many maintenance hangars were, what immense work was done on the engines, components and internal parts of the aircraft. Well, those maintenance hangars don't exist anymore, they've been completely dismantled. An agreement was made with an Israeli company. Some engines are loaded on cargo and shipped to Israel to be adjusted, dismantling not only the entire hangars but also the immense and infinite expertise of our workers. I quickly add that if Alitalia had focused on Alitalia Manutenzione, taking care of its development and growth, instead of making it miserably fail, it could have performed at home the maintenance of its engines and in the state instead is forced to send them to different parts of the world. Mr President, since I do not want to abuse my time, I am passing over the costs of airport operations and I would like to be able to deposit this part of my speech in order to be annexed to the report of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Sorvoli as well, it's also Alitalia! CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, your irony is always wonderful, it always makes us smile again. I'm always happy when I see her. I also deliver to the documents the part relating to the costs related to the ticket reservation system. I just need a minute to finish on the most important points. How could we, in view of the assumption of the approval of this decree-law that lengthens the time, get savings? Alitalia would save around 150 million euros per year compared to maintenance costs, as I have told you; thousands of work units would be re-employed today in Cassa Integrazione; hangar and numerous facilities would also be re-employed; professional dignity would be restored to aeronautical engineers, mechanics and professionals; Alitalia could sell home-produced maintenance services to third parties; the fleet could be optimized in relation to the dimensional and strategic threshold of this network. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that the management policy implemented over the years has only tried to unload to Alitalia workers and taxpayers the succession of strategic mistakes and has produced only disasters, ever worse results, in an internal climate that contributes not little to society's decreasing redditality. Alitalia certainly needs a revisiting of the internal organization, but the effort must be to relocate the resources in existence in the boxes to their congeniali, beginning with the valorization of the competences and the professional quality that characterize not a few subjects within the company. Think, for example, of the return in economic terms (and not only) that could be obtained in rebuilding a flight school in Alitalia, certainly considered the quality and tradition of Italian pilots. It could become a point of reference for many companies around the world, starting with Chinese companies and emerging countries such as Arab countries, who constantly need skills. With a little courage, Mr President, and by voting in favour of the conversion into law of this decree-law, we could give breath back to a great company, to our territory, to thousands of workers. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Laniece]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u49	Senator Cirinna, the Presidency authorizes you to hand over the remainder of the speech so that it can be annexed to the Report. Senator Siclari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law that we are now called upon to convert this urgent measure into law to ensure that the procedures for the disposal of Alitalia's business complexes are completed. In particular, it postpones until 31 October 2018 the deadline for the completion of these transfer procedures and extends to 15 December 2018 the duration of the financing for consideration of EUR 900 million, deleting the provisions that provided for the refund within the period of the financial year. This requirement arises in order to evaluate and ponder, in addition to the economic offer and purchase, also the industrial policy underlying the same offers. The work done in the Special Commission in the Senate has been meritorious and valid and for this I thank my fellow senators. The position of the three special commissioners, the three ministries involved and the trade unions has been acquired. Colleagues, President, to give the green light to the conversion of the decree-law, accepting the extension on the terms of the procedures of cession of Alitalia, does not mean to push for a cession of the flag company; it is, but, an act of responsibility towards the company and those who work there, especially in the light of the current political stalemate. Alitalia needs a revival to be implemented, allowing the State to do everything possible and, in perspective, to create a real and great flagship company, which is an expression of Made in Italy, Italianity and Italian genius in the world, as a flywheel of tourism promotion and advertising of Italian entrepreneurship. Our country, in fact, represents one of the most important and precious international showcases, rich in history, traditions, architectural and cultural heritage that we all know, enchanting landscapes, climate and enviable places, that allow us to take advantage of the four seasons promoting tourism, which today in Italy represents the first and most important industry. Alitalia must invest in long-range routes, leading to an increase in the presence of tourists who, deciding to visit Europe, find it convenient to reach our beloved country, also for the offer that derives from the company itself. Investing in long-range routes, which are the most profitable ones, not only allows you to relaunch the company with the increase in the number of passengers, but also allows you to increase the GDP of our country with a greater number of visitors who bring oxygen to our small and medium-sized enterprises. For this reason, it takes the time to choose an industrial partner to protect Italian interests by avoiding that Alitalia becomes a regional company of another European carrier. The fleet of Alitalia is too focused towards the short-medium radius, the segment with more competition, while it is extremely weak compared to the competitors for the intercontinental routes, which allow the margins of greater revenue. The management, first, and the commissioners, then, have reduced the operating costs, but they have been able to do very little without investments in the long-range fleet. We need more time to rethink industrial policy, together with the trading partner that will be identified by the next Government, having the aim of the overall transport system, without policies to compartmentalize or buffer measures that limit themselves to differing decisions. A unified and systematic vision is needed to ensure transport as an essential public service, diversifying the supply without unnecessarily putting into competition different sectors: I am thinking of high speed and air transport, which must ensure with their service opportunities for fast connection and therefore development of all the territories of our beloved country. At this moment - allow me - my thoughts go to the South, which must be at the heart of the airline's industrial project, because it represents a fundamental tourist potential for the revival, not only of the territory, but also and above all of the entire country. The conversion into law of the decree-law that we are going to launch today must be a starting point in order to restore dignity and efficiency to a strategic and fundamental sector for the future development of our beloved country and, of course, to protect our Alitalia. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u51	Senator Pittella is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate confirms that the issue of the safety of our flag company and its relaunch are our primary duty to defend thousands of jobs, also in the companies of the induced that offer services in all the Italian ports of call, from Naples to Fiumicino, from Milan to Palermo, and the strategic role that our carrier is playing in our home and in the world to close a long phase, as the commissioners in charge have begun to do, errors and waste. Commissioner management has achieved remarkable results in terms of cost reduction and revenue increase. The losses have been reduced compared to previous managements and a further improvement is expected during the summer season without considering the operating results achieved, which have seen Alitalia for months stablely among the first companies in the world for punctuality. These results - it must be emphasized - have been achieved without affecting the loan granted by the Government. This shows that our company can still play a fundamental role in the air transport market, especially for the connectivity of our country. Italy is in fact an underserved country with regard to direct long-range flights, if we consider that on every hundred passengers arriving or leaving directly for an international and intercontinental destination there are sixty-two that must make at least one stop in the hubs of the major European carriers to reach the final destination. This data is fundamental to understand that the country needs a national carrier that is not at the service of other companies feeding their hubs, but connects Italy with the rest of the world to promote tourism and entrepreneurship. The company, also as a motor of national development, can be relaunched through the involvement of new public and private subjects, available to invest adequate capital in the implementation of the strategic lines identified during the commissioner management, above all for the renewal of the fleet and the development of the intercontinental routes. Relaunching can also lead to a rebalancing of the domestic air transport market by means of transparent rules, especially as regards incentives by airports to low-cost carriers under a wider national integrated transport system. For the last few seconds that remain of my speech, I would like to take this opportunity to say that Alitalia is linked to the most general topic of logistics in our country. There are great innovations in the geography of logistics, which concern the Mediterranean and which directly affect the Mezzogiorno of Italy and Italy. There is a great interest of great international players; there is China that is implementing many geostrategic activities on the logistics level, with attention to the Mediterranean. We have done some important things with the Governments that have preceded us, but we must insist in strengthening the logistic frame of our Country, therefore obviously the airports, but also the ports, the interporti, the infrastructure on the railway of the high speed; everything that can allow the Mezzogiorno of Italy and Italy to play a role of hub in the Mediterranean. We must not lose this opportunity, Mr President. If this means making alliances in Europe, which does not mean going with the hat in hand towards someone, we must do so, because if we are not present in the major European and international challenges we will abdicate to our important role and the great role that Italy can have in the new strategic geoeconomic structures. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u53	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a professional, as a businessman, I am happy to speak here on concrete issues such as the subject of Alitalia, a subject which is certainly dramatic and which has gripped our country and our economy for years. However, it is regrettable that we would have needed to speak in advance of these arguments and this concreteness. It has been three months now, Mr President, that we are without a Government; for three months our country has been waiting to see the administration act on real and concrete problems - such as that of Alitalia - and I believe that this is a record in republican history: no politician, no administrator has presented himself as a candidate President to ask for trust in a House and precisely in the Senate of the Republic. This is a real critical issue, a drama that we are living through and to which we must all be able to respond with a sense of responsibility. So here I am on Alitalia: "urgent measures on Alitalia" as the title of the senatorial notes on this decree-law states. Already here I feel like apostrogating the Government with a criticism, because when we professionals, we businessmen, have to ask for an extension for our work, we are already in default and then when the extension is perhaps the second, many of us would be sent home. Well, here we are asking for a second extension on a decree for Alitalia that - I remind all of us - now wants to postpone to 15 October the terms for the completion of the tendering procedure. Well, since none of us are naive, today or in the next few hours we will be called upon to vote on an extension order to 15 October, when we know very well, also on the basis of the hearings that have been held, that there is nothing concrete in terms of Alitalia's acquisitions. Therefore, it has been over a year that - in fact - nothing has been done and in the coming months nothing will be done, because in a context of economic crisis, such as the one currently existing at European level, not to say international, a company like Alitalia is not sold in a few months (July, August and September). This is the political drama that each of us must take with us and in our own parties. We therefore have another deadline - set at 15 December - for repayment of the financing. The issue here is, in some ways, even more serious, because, ladies and gentlemen, we are entering into an infringement procedure. We know very well that Community legislation grants loans for the financing of emergency situations, which are well-conditioned: first, reimbursement within six months, or as an alternative, to a restructuring plan. Today it is not foreseeable to refund, precisely because we are asking for a postponement, but we do not even have the slightest idea of a restructuring plan of the company. These are the problems that are attacking us. The members of the Government present in this House today should answer for why we have come to this point. The Silveri Gentiloni Government should answer the Italian people why this airline has been in this situation for over a year. Even for those who did not know, the previous administration is under investigation at Civitavecchia's attorney for fraudulent bankruptcy. Last week the offices of Alitalia were visited by the military of the Finance Guard for the serious doubts that are attacking the attorney. This, unfortunately, is today's Alitalia. On these points we should apologise to our people and, of course, first of all, to the government that has led us to this situation. Mr President, if this is the status and if there is no recovery plan, no prospects, I ask everyone how we can question this issue, beyond the vote we will be voting on. We certainly haven't seen an industrial plan yet. During the hearings held at the Special Commission on urgent acts of the Government, which I had the pleasure and honour of participating in, we did not have any feedback on a restructuring plan and on actual and concrete projects. This is the current status: there is no negotiation in place, nor is there a restructuring plan in progress. We are merely being asked - and we must know this - to extend for another six months, and I repeat, to an almost certain infringement procedure. When we come to the conclusion, what technical questions could we ask ourselves in this context? We'd like to know better where Alitalia wants to go. We would like to better understand what happened when they were transferred in a rather controversial way - not to say worrying, according to the Republic's attorney - the slots to that Etihad that was part of our company. These slots have been sold at a value that seems to be significantly lower than the real one. Therefore, Alitalia's assets have been sold out and, moreover, the clause that would have allowed them to be returned to the possession of these assets has not even been activated. Therefore, these are important issues and even more serious responsibilities of the Government on this issue. So now we don't know where we're going. During the hearings held in the Commission, we heard that the prospects that might emerge were those of international routes, but for which considerable investment would be needed. More than EUR 1 billion has been mentioned since the first year, but it is all words, all chatter and no concreteness. I shall really end by not taking any more time, Mr President, by expressing a serious concern about this. It will then be our Parent Company that will express the declaration of vote of Brothers of Italy on this extension and the decree-law Alitalia to our examination; but I wanted to contextualize the gravity of the problem, which involves all of us and I wanted to clarify the responsibilities of a Government that, in over a year, has not been able to give answers to the Italian people on such an important topic. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Bergesio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u55	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Alitalia is the airline that bears the signs of the tricolor and that, thanks to the current nationalization, still remains our flag company and therefore continues to be interested in Italian politics, despite the current events. After the cession in large part of the shares to Etihad, that had assumed the management in 2014, has been recorded the non-restoration of criteria of profitability, the net worth of the company has been zeroed between 2015 and 2016 and has adopted yet another plan of restructure in 2016. The extraordinary administration, as has been mentioned several times, is now taking charge of finding binding offers for the optimization of the assets of the air carrier and, in this sense, it will have to understand how the new offers will be articulated and which is the most appropriate valorization of the company: therefore the decree-law in question is certainly functional for the purpose. Commissioner management, carried out by three managers of absolute value, has worked in recent years to contain costs, increase efficiency, better manage liquidity and, above all, maintain revenues at levels appropriate to such a large airline. In this respect, it should be recalled that, in the era of low-cost airlines, the objective of guarding the domestic market with a product that is differentiated from that of low-cost flights is certainly not an easy task, but neither is maintaining connections on routes such as those for the Middle East or North Africa, guarded by the large Arab companies, or on European routes, against giants such as Lufthansa and Air France-KLM, or on the route to Russia, guarded by the Russian flag airline Aeroflot. What must be appreciated is therefore now the effort to rationalise the existing routes and to increase the efficiency in the use of the fleet. They are all actions that have also allowed a small increase in revenues, but in my opinion it is an important reversal of the trend. At the same time we note a positive action of the extraordinary commissioners in order to contain the costs through a revision and an optimization of the organizational structure, the internationalization of several services of on-board, the renegotiatation of the existing contracts with the suppliers, the return to the direct management of the activities of cargo. Several advances have also been made in terms of industrial relations, although it should be remembered that there is still an important recourse to social shock absorbers, such as the extraordinary earnings fund (CIGS) full time equivalent, which, while disgracing the company, are at the expense of general taxation. Thanks to these tools it is possible to manage almost 1,500 professional, flight and land figures, which would otherwise weigh entirely on the company. Highlighted the positive aspects of a certainly not easy commissioner's management, it must be said that one of the main performance indicators is not positive: Alitalia loses passengers on average (even if it earns on the long haul, that is on the most profitable routes), it keeps on revenues (as said even increasing them in the first trimester of this year, regarding the first trimester last year) but above all manages to reduce the operating losses in the last year regarding the precedence. Therefore, in the choice to be adopted with regard to Alitalia (if to sell, to whom to sell, how to sell), a series of evaluations must be made, which not only evaluate the convenience of the various options, but that extend the judgment on other elements. At the same time, account must be taken of the limits imposed on the confirmation of the loan to Alitalia, which could constitute State aid, if renewed and not repaid. Then there is the usual question, that pursues the Alitalia and the history of its cession: can a country with a large tourist vocation like Italy not own a flag air carrier? In fact: can a country like Italy give up its airline? We must ask ourselves whether it is worth giving up a strategic asset for our country, such as that of air transport, at a time when the contribution to GDP given by tourism flourishes and the economy of air transport has very important potential and growth numbers. All in all, I believe that the history of Alitalia is not so different from the history of Italy, for tribulations and for the relationship with other countries. And, as for Italy we are looking for a way to make us respect, so also for the Alitalia company - which I always like to define as a flag company - we must find the ideal system to move forward in the best way not to disperse such an important heritage. The solution? In my opinion it has a name: confidence; indeed, I translate it into Italian: trust. Thanks to the confidence that in this last period users are finding, revenues in the first quarter of 2018 have increased by 6 percent (I remember too) and the operating losses have halved. Stefano Paleari, one of the extraordinary commissioners - my fellow-citizen - indicated this during the hearing at the Special Committee of the Senate. Speaking of the revenues in concrete terms, these stand at 597 million euros, with an increase of 4 percent, in which the revenues from passengers grow of 6 percent regarding the same period of 2017. And EBITDA, excluding non-recurring revenues and costs, reduces red by EUR 111 million (in the worst period of the year for companies). More or less the same applies to the operating result. We must not forget also, as the president of ENAC Riggio has emphasized, that the continuation of the crisis of Alitalia could involve great difficulties also on the airport of Fiumicino, main Italian port of call of the company. To conclude, today we are called to a necessary and urgent political choice, in order to allow our company and those who the administration does not have to fly on sight, but to be able to plan and operate with respect to a time horizon at least of medium period. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u57	Senator Santillo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the choice of commissioners by the Ministry of Economic Development just over a year ago for the management of the extraordinary administration of Alitalia, which, as we know, provided for one hundred and eighty days in order to present a plan for the reorganization of the company, in the light of the facts, has not exactly been appropriate to the problem of the airline itself. The airline sector is a complex business with a thousand variables, which requires specific expertise, as Professor Intrieri, an estimated aviation expert, has pointed out in his intervention in the special Commission over the past few weeks. Intrieri, moreover, has evidenced that none of the managing directors of the Alitalia of the last twenty years came from the aerial field, which is a unique case in the world. In the present case, for the administration of the commissioner it was thought to hire an expert, Professor Paleari, with a very wide experience in the academic field, but that perhaps he did not find the right coordination with the triad commissioner to draw a compelling strategy. Commissioner Gubitosi, by his own admission to the recent hearing, is at his first experience. As far as Commissioner Laghi is concerned, it cannot go unnoticed that the conferral of the commission was his twenty-fourth contemporary assignment: therefore, such a serious and complex situation, such as that of our national carrier, which required all attention, was probably penalized by the Commissioner's many commitments. The appointment of the same Lakes, also, was the subject of a presentation to the Anac by our Parliamentary Group, as it presented profiles of illegality, not complying practically with any of the requirements relating to the nominations of commissioners issued by Ministerial Decree No. 60 of 10 April 2013. Anac, with resolution n. 699 of 28 June 2017, has given us reason, declaring legitimate the perplexities of those who supported the possible existence of a conflict of interest from Laghi, in how much it seemed difficult that, having held the role of president of the board of directors of Midco SpA (the new society created from CAI at the time of the entry of Etihad in the share ownership Alitalia), had never participated in the administration that has brought Alitalia under the current conditions, that is bad. Just to give an example, one can remember the sale - or rather a sale - of six high-quality slots from Heathrow Airport in 2014, with highly sought-after slots, sold at only 60 million euros overall, while Air France sold a single slot of the same characteristics and in the same period at 74 million dollars; the commissioners, who at that time could exercise the right of withdrawal of the sale, instead limited themselves to carrying out an internal expertise that found the price reasonable. The objective data, however, were others and had to be deepened, taking into account the accounting situation of the company. Heathrow is one of the European airports where the air force is paid at a high price and is perhaps the only airport in the world where you can buy and sell landing and take-off rights as if they were stock exchanges. It is therefore difficult to carry out a reliable assessment. But considering that only two years before Alitalia had sold a slot to Continental for 30 million euros, it was enough to make two accounts and at that point you could cash from the sale to Etihad beyond the 60 million euros received. At the same time as the sale, Alitalia agreed to pay a rather high rent to the buyer for the right of take-off and landing from the same slots of 3.5 million per year with a five-year constraint. It is clear that the Commissioners should have done more in-depth work, given that this whole negotiation has severely penalised Alitalia and has presumably contributed to its failure. In conclusion, taking inspiration from the difficulties of management and administration of the airline not grasped immediately from the commissioners, we note the necessity that the Parliament can intervene with greater incisiveness in the events of the Alitalia and every other strategic asset for our Country, and therefore agrees with an extension in the course of which to ask for greater transparency, with the publication of the economic and technical-administrative data with fixed frequency, so that anyone can also exercise at all times the monitoring of the situation. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u59	Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u60	Mr President, I too would like to thank the rapporteur because I believe that an important work has been done in the Commission: what was a simple extension of the bridge funding has become an in-depth analysis by this new Parliament, which I do not know how long it will last, but which at least has had the opportunity to discuss and deepen the Alitalia issue. Well, beyond the examination of the decree-law, the special Commission of which I am honored to be a member - which was, at least in this case, an important experience as far as I am concerned, since I was in the first parliamentary term - it wanted to examine - and I must say that it did so well - all the issues through hearings, not only of the Commissioners appointed by the Government, but of all the parties involved, from the social partners to the experts of the airport system and air transport. In short, we have tried not only to give meaning to an extension, but to understand what we wanted to do with this company, what was this company and as if we had arrived at the epilogue of a bridge loan, then at the company's headquarters and, consequently, at the choices that have been made over time. Well, the split that has emerged is not fantastic, because from the commissioners but also from the experts and representatives of the workers has jumped immediately to the eye that in recent years, in particular in the last seven to eight years, have changed from the seven to the nine managing directors, none of which has ever dealt with avolineas and airlines. If we were to tell this detail outside (which unfortunately, since we are talking about it in this House, we probably already know outside) we would be asked: why, after the experience of a rescue (the so-called brave captains), did you go in that direction? Well, someone much more authoritative said in this House: that thinking wrong is a sin but usually guess. Since the member entered (without names: Etihad) we have witnessed a impoverishment of the company, almost with the precise and specific goal of eating the company, aiming, at a historical moment when the high speed was being launched (so, the railway), on the domestic and annihilating almost the long haul, going to do those operations, as someone previously recalled, of the sale of slots at a fundamental airport such as, for example, that of Heathrow, selling - so we have been told in the Commission - slots that had a value from 70 to 80 million euros to little more than ten million euros, with a huge damage to the company. But this is not enough: it is not enough. The profit and loss account, the last one we were able to discuss, shows that, in particular with regard to the leasing of long-range aircraft, the company paid from 60 to 65 percent more than the market costs and, for maintenance, more than 30 percent, while closing a point of excellence for the maintenance and accommodation of engines, where the whole world came to learn. Today, those same engineers are out working for the other companies. This game cost the company, in terms of extra costs, over 450 million euros only in 2016: 450 million euros! We do not want to talk about derivatives and everything else, but I want colleagues to reflect on one subject. Can we entrust our interests to one of our competitors? But would you, individually or structured in the company, ever trust your competitors with your interests? This is crazy. That's crazy! One more thing. Talking to the Government is difficult because one goes out and another does not enter; therefore, it is complicated; but I would gladly ask the outgoing Government why all these applause and support for Air Italy, when our flag company, as Senator Caliendo recalled before, has a brand recognized in the world (like Ferrari of the rest), with a great value for quality (in any case we are still rated as a flag company of the highest level). How come, with a brand of this kind, with the brave captains who had formed it, with the desire to move forward, with the need to keep a company of this kind open, we applaud and support Air Italy? I don't know who's gonna answer this: I don't think anyone. In any case, this is the question we have been faced with. Think: we were asked to talk about the extension of the bridge loan and we were faced with this disaster. From this point of view, however, it must be said that the Commissioner's work has done an important job and that, if we are here today to discuss this with a view, we must thank the Commissioner's management. I'm closing on a matter. I find it inappropriate and anachronistic that the only mandate given to the commissioners is to sell the company. [[Applause from Senator Dal Mas.]] The company must not be sold out. The company must remain and maintain high the Italian brand, the Italian flag; the only thing that, at least at this moment, remains to this nation. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u61	He's enlisted to speak Senator Laniece. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u62	Mr President, I believe that in this difficult crisis and political stalemate in order to try to contribute, on the part of the Senate, to the resolution of a complex issue such as that of Alitalia is a way of taking an interest in the concrete problems that affect our country. I must thank the President of the special Commission, the rapporteur for this measure, for having already explained in detail the outlines of a difficult issue, which has been affecting a flagship company as important as Alitalia for years. Unfortunately, through the conversion into law of this decree-law, we find ourselves, once again, to help an important public company of our country so that it does not fall into the abyss. Before me, very in-depth interventions have been made that have come down specifically to the criticalities of these years, with reference to the budgets, the staff and the strategy of the companies. It was said that this decree-law said the measures to try to ensure the completion of the procedures for the disposal of the business complexes that belong to Italy. I also remember how it differs to 31 October 2018 the deadline for the completion of these procedures and also provides for the extension to 15 December 2018 of the financing for consideration of 600 million euros, as originally provided for by the previous decree-law of 2017, subsequently increased by another 300 million euros. A total of 900 million euros are employed to try to save an important company, so I think it is right to pay particular attention. I remember how the original deadline of 15 October 2017 served to conclude the completion of a negotiation phase aimed at improving the offers in the context of a sale. However, I remember - it has already been mentioned in this House - that since 2008 Parliament and Italian politics have committed themselves to trying to save this important company. I believe that in ten years the centre-right and centre-left can somehow divide positive passages and negative passages on this dossier. It is therefore a little difficult to blame one side or another, partly because it is a very complex situation. As far as the Commission's work is concerned, we have had the opportunity to participate in important hearings of trade union representatives of all the acronyms, which I am not quoting here. All actors have presented themselves, including the College of Commissioners of Procedure. We have also audited ENAC, and the Monitoring Committee in the Extraordinary Administrative Procedure, which has enabled an important and worrying framework to be updated. The concerns were mainly about staff. Important cuts have been made, but above all the trade unions have expressed concern at the fact that beyond this one could not go to ensure an adequate quality of service throughout the airport activity. I remember that at the beginning of 2017 a referendum was held among the staff on a pre-agreement that wanted to anticipate the industrial plan and during that consultation the staff rejected that agreement with 70%, precisely because of the concerns that emerged about possible staff reductions and therefore arrived at the Commissariat. As far as industrial policy is concerned, we have been able to see some critical issues, such as the reduction of long-haul flights, and we have been told that this is actually a negative aspect. Indeed, if a company wants to remain a leader at international level, it must promote long-range intercontinental flights in order to maintain an adequate quality. I do not go any further, because I would risk repeating concepts that have already been well expressed. I would like to make one point. An amendment by the Commission requiring Alitalia's special Commissioners to report every 60 days on a number of aspects relating to their activities has been tabled. We agree too; I have only expressed, like other Commissioners, some concerns about the hyperburocratization of the procedure as to the need to present every sixty days a report containing a number of detailed points; however, if this can serve to maintain even closer contact with the political side, let it be a good thing. In conclusion, I note that our Group has followed this dossier carefully in the Commission and I can already anticipate how we will have a favourable attitude towards this decree-law, which aims to facilitate a move towards a better solution for an important company such as Alitalia. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u63	She's registered to speak Senator Malpezzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u64	Mr President, representatives of the Government, I would like to be able to reason with you on the subject we are dealing with today, starting from three words: trust, opportunity and time. During the study carried out in the Special Commission we audited several subjects and it has emerged that in recent months a climate of trust has been created, which is perhaps also the element that has allowed, during this phase of the commissioning, to give back momentum to Alitalia. Finally there seems to be an opportunity to try to look at the future, perhaps even with a few more possibilities to broaden the horizon of perspectives. The resumption of the airline from May 2017 (remember that this is the start date of the extraordinary administration) turns out to be quite supported; we have seen the data, which are public, and we also know where we were starting. The good results achieved seem due in particular to a renewed confidence of the customers regarding the fate of the company and this has made possible an increase of the revenues, connected essentially to the increase of the number of passengers. This is a point to be taken into account, because then there is an estimated growth for the first half of 2018, with an increase in revenues of 4-5 percent and a particular increase of passengers on intercontinental flights. The actions of the Commissioner's management, as was mentioned earlier, have allowed almost some kind of programming for the coming months. It is clear to everyone that there has been an increase in bookings, which foreshadows a further improvement in Alitalia's performance in the medium term. This does not mean that everything is going well, but that strategically the moves of the Gentiloni Government have allowed to follow a right direction, especially because they have been made available to Alitalia resources enough to guarantee the company in a medium-term action, first necessary element - and I repeat this once again - to restore confidence and guarantee to the users and to those who use Alitalia to have a positive look. So trust. Trust, however, that it must not dwell only on the present. We need to look to the future, we need to have a further momentum to try to further strengthen the strategic positioning of the airline. What steps are needed? Also in this case we have listened to them and we, as a Democratic Party, have tried to reiterate them: the strengthening of the long-range routes, taking into account, however, the importance that also covers the medium-range routes, because we know very well that the role of Alitalia is also to unite the Country through the different routes; a better exploitation of the port of call of Linate with the development of further international connections and further improvements of the operating process (digitalization and e-invoicing). All this comes close to the second issue that I wanted to stress as important for the debate: the opportunity. At this point allow me a parenthesis just on the opportunity of an airport that has found its nature, that of Linate, that is finally no longer in competition with the airport of Malpensa. It has a new nature and each airport has been able to find a new identity card. There was the complete expansion of Malpensa, and Linate is surely finding a space not indifferent. At Linate airport, Alitalia has a dominant position: about 200 movements a day, a market share of 65 percent, a large amount of slots. We have to look very carefully at this asset because from it can start opportunities also for the country and I say it also from Milanese, not only from Lombardy. Linate is an airport much loved by Milanese who see it as a direct connection to the city. We also know that there is a project that concerns a metro stop right in Linate, which will ensure further connection and proximity to the city, increasing the strategic role of the same airport. How can Alitalia enhance its presence in Linate? We can reflect on the fact that we will need a strong trade policy to make ourselves attractive in the short and medium term. We know that the Bergamo airport is nearby, so we are talking about synergies not reductions. We are talking about synergies between forces that are carrying out their tasks with professionalism. Linate is also the best City Airport in Europe. It offers 20 destinations. They can easily grow without changing the current number of passengers in transit. We are convinced, precisely for this reason, that Linate is a strategic airport for the development and enhancement of Alitalia in terms of revenues, turnover and flights. It is necessary, therefore (it was remembered even before), not to sell out what is considered a heritage. It's about selling don't sell out. In this regard the Government had made an intelligent and interesting choice to try to find the time, that is the other term that I would like to use in my reflection. In order not to sell out there is a need for time, but the times must be certain and politics must assume the responsibility of certain times in order to carry out also the accompanying projects already started. We know very well what the deadlines are. The tasks assigned to the Commissioners are close to the deadline. By 31 October 2018 the tendering procedures for the disposal of business complexes shall be concluded. By 15 December the loan granted to the airline must be repaid. Therefore, it is possible to give up opportunities, is it possible to give up the confidence that is emerging within the world that revolves around Alitalia and the airline for lack of time? Again, the choice made is institutionally correct: the Government underlines the need to continue, always with a certain date, in a path that has already given results. The non-decision on the future of Alitalia in the coming months, in addition to generating competitive advantages in favour of other airlines, will further make the solution of the company's problems more complex. We are convinced that the next action to be taken within the short term, however before the end of the summer, is represented by initiatives and solutions that can truly guarantee the operational continuity of Alitalia in the terms that we have tried before to describe. Maybe it would be time - give it to me - for politics to assume a greater responsibility, even in this circumstance; I mean by politics not only those who had the numbers in the last legislature, but also those who seem to have obtained them now, so that they get away from the screams that too often accompany some measures, because the country needs, instead, to try to move on. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u65	Senator Vallardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Turco, with whom we have had an excellent report in the Commission. This measure, although it is complicated, on a very difficult issue, which has been going on for about ten years, finally with a sense of responsibility in the Commission we have found the square. Moving on to the examination of the measure, it must be remembered that the decree-law in question implements a series of urgent measures in order to assure the completion of the procedures of cession of the business complexes belonging to Alitalia. In particular, it postpones to 31 October 2018 the deadline for the completion of these procedures, provided for by Decree-Law No 148 of 2017, and extends until the end of this year the duration of the financing for consideration of 600 million euros, already provided for by Decree-Law No 50 of 2017, which was then increased by additional 300 million euros, abolishing at the same time the provisions that provided for the return within the end of the financial year. All this, of course, to give a certain breath and benefit to the difficult economic situation of society. Alitalia has been and still is our flag airline; I remember that it started its flight operations in the immediate post-war period, exactly in 1947. As for the current situation of the Italian Air Company (SAI), which is in extraordinary administration, I remember that it started operations on January 1, 2015, after having taken over the operating activities of Alitalia - Compagnia Aerea Italiana, then renamed CAI, which holds in Alitalia a controlling share of 51 percent. 49 percent of the shares are owned by Etihad Airways, a flagship company in the United Arab Emirates. Etihad's recovery plan failed, which provided for the break even (the point of balance between revenues and exits) in 2017, the company, which has not had a positive budget well since 2009, suffered losses for 500 million euros in 2016. Then, in April 2017, he signed a pre-agreement on cuts and called for a referendum among the then 12,500 employees. On 24 April 2017, Alitalia's workers rejected the pre-agreement, which provided for a recapitalisation in exchange for staff cuts, thus opening the way to the company's headquarters and, in the absence of new lenders, to the court's declaration of insolvency. On 2 May 2017, the Ministry for Economic Development appointed the three Commissioners Luigi Gubitosi, Enrico Laghi and Stefano Paleari to deal with the extraordinary administration of society. To ensure operation in the months immediately following the commissioning, the Government granted a bridge loan of more than 600 million. The development of Alitalia's situation over the last ten years has had, as we have seen in the Commission and from previous speakers, aspects to say the least grotesque, and it is right to stress that. It is difficult, practically impossible, to think that past managements have been completely correct and transparent. Acrobatic management of a failed society twice (almost three, if we take into account what is happening now, if we do not refinance it) and twice reborn over ten years. Today we, with this financing decree, should help to bring it back for the third time, all of it, clearly, with the money of Italian citizens. This I believe is a reason for reflection, because for the phoenix Arab, as we all know, rose from its ashes, while Alitalia rose with the money of the taxpayers of this country. In recent years, entrepreneurs, bankers and managers, with the decisive contribution of public funds, have often performed in a kind of prestigious financial game in order to avoid the crack of the airline, which has long lost the route of profits immemorial. Yet, what has happened in recent weeks, and what still happens in these days between political polemics and assorted downloads, seems really the last chance to win a game that many seem from the outcome already irremediably compromised for the third time. A little history. The company operates both in the passenger and cargo sectors. From November 2014 to May 2, 2017 the president of the company was Luca Cordero di Montezemolo, and I must say that President Montezemolo, given the results and losses of those years, will certainly not be remembered very positively in the history books of the next generations. The first industrial and financial peripecies started in the 1990s, when, faced with the first obvious economic difficulties, the then Prime Minister Romano Prodi launched the first privatisation. We are in 1996 and the stock exchange listing of 37% of the company does not bear the desired results. A second attempt will then be made in 2006, always by Prodi, in a different way this time: instead of the stock exchange, you choose to put on the market another 39 percent with a competition procedure that fails immediately, because those who had to participate, as soon as they go to see the company's accounts, get so scared they were in red. We are still in the 1990s when we try to put in place a first strategic alliance with the carrier KLM. However, the partnership fails and the Dutch company decides in 2000 to withdraw immediately from the operation in a unilateral manner. Next, under the Berlusconi Government there is an attempt at the so-called courageous captains' operation. After Alitalia takes the books to court and obtains a sort of controlled bankruptcy thanks to the so-called Marzano law, the Italian Air Company (CAI), a roped one then led by Roberto Colaninno and other investors such as Benetton, Riva, Ligresti, Marcegaglia and Caltagirone, falls into the field. A weight bank such as Intesa San Paolo, then led by Corrado Passera, also participates in the rope. The healthy part of the company is taken over by the CAI for 300 million while all the liabilities, or about 2 billion euros, are placed in a bad bank and become state debt, therefore charged to all the citizens of this country. In March 2017 Alitalia is again on the verge of bankruptcy: it is expected that the cash available, within a month, will not be sufficient either for the refueling of aircraft or to pay salaries. Since mid-March, in fact, Government, Alitalia, unions and property of the Emirates seek a solution to restore the company. Following the outcome of the trade union referendum, held from 20 to 24 April 2017, there is a rejection (with 67 percent) by the 13,000 Alitalia employees of the pre-agreement, the rescue plan, and is a clear push towards the company's headquarters. We arrive today: the task of the extraordinary commissioners is to identify the best offer, then open the phase of negotiation exclusively, to enter into the detail of some fundamental nodes, such as redundancies and costs for the State. On 2 May, almost a month ago, it passed a year after the appointment of Alitalia's three commissioners. A period of time which has not yet been sufficient to sell, which - let us remember - is the aim of the extraordinary administration, and which is therefore suitable for various considerations on the management of the commissioner. The first consideration is that current management - we saw it in the Commission after the three Commissioners had been audited - was positive, however, with significant improvements in the accounts. However, one does not immediately fall into the illusion, in the deception of thinking that Alitalia is reborn, because it absolutely is not. In the first quarter he lost two million euros a day. It is true that this is the least profitable season of the year, however this figure makes us think of the darkest times. In favor of the work of the commissioners it must be said and emphasized that the same numbers of the trimester also say that, regarding the same period of the previous years, the revenues have increased and have dropped significantly the expenses and this in fact promotes the ordinary management. In conclusion, I believe that it is a matter of the utmost priority that, as soon as possible, we should put an end to the management of the Commission and appoint a new board of directors with objectives and strategies adapted in particular to the new demand for global mobility. This is clearly in the interest of the company, in the interest of Alitalia's workers, in the interest of airport operators and in the interest of Italian citizens, who so far, thanks to the choices of the last Governments, have invested and unfortunately thrown several billions of euros into the wind in Alitalia. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u69	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make a request. Tomorrow morning, a joint hearing with the Chamber Commission on a legislative decree will be held at the Special Commission for the examination of urgent government acts. This is an important hearing, so I ask whether it is possible to postpone the beginning of the sitting of this House at 11.30 a.m., so that senators can participate in the hearing.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u70	After hearing the groups on the short lines, there is unanimous support for this proposal. However, I expect that the indicated suspension of work at around 13.30 a.m. can be re-modulated by the Presidency in the light of the conclusion of the examination of the measure. The sitting of tomorrow is therefore postponed to 11.30 a.m., will resume from the reply of the rapporteur and the Government and will then proceed to the vote on the articles and their amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u71	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u72	Mr President, representatives of the Government, the Forza Italia Group has already, with several speeches - among others those of Senator Caliendo and Senators Mallegni - illustrated the position we held in the Special Commission, at this particular stage of Parliament's work, in which, however, the eternal issue of Alitalia has found a way to emerge. I am talking about an eternal question because it is a long time for the country to measure itself with the company that we would once have defined as a flag and therefore we are concerned about what the perspective can be. As we speak, we do not know what will happen to Italy in terms of government, but we will certainly have to deal with the matter. We would not like the political phase to cause damage to the management and prospects of Alitalia, whose employment and strategic value and its impact on tourism are of the importance that we have all stressed. Our Group will therefore vote in favour of the conversion of this decree-law because it believes that the measures already discussed and outlined are indispensable. However, we want to take the opportunity of this debate to point out to those who will have responsibilities of government in the medium perspective - in these hours it is an absolute unknown and therefore we really speak in full good faith and ignoring the prospects - that this debate has highlighted the mistakes made even in stages that have been boasted as phantasmagoric: the story Etihad, the pre-clarified exponents of the industrial world who had envisaged this solution as a miraculous solution. There are even disturbing aspects of this affair that will have to be deepened, perhaps more in the courts than elsewhere. In the past history of Alitalia there are pages of waste and excessive costs and also pages that have shown how the business world (which often teaches political) called to manage this affair, then it was unable to do so. I remember the work of the center-right governments, called to defend the strategic function of Alitalia, then yes, not selling it to the French and keeping the structure under Italian control to avoid losing Italian ports of call, even those of great tourist importance ( practically all, because Italy is all visitable and destination of tourism). I remember that we, as a political side, called into question the best of Italian entrepreneurship. Those who were set up to play roles were not strangers (I could decline their names, groups and societies). Things did not have a great outcome. I say this because today we see a situation in which politics is on the stand of the accused and also shows its shortcomings. In Italy, many have started teaching podiums, and yet, when they were called to perform functions in practice, they did not do their best. With reference to that roped one, if I may say that it was not a mistake to constitute it, I can also say that the protagonists operated below expectations. Or isn't it? That's how it was. I see at least Senator Mallegni agrees. It's already something. After that, there are the themes of Etihad and international capitals. I am not calling the name of the great business leader who went to visit the Arab countries to propose this issue. We have taken note of the management of this phase. At this moment Alitalia, in absolute numbers (they have been remembered), is unfortunately small thing compared to other companies, even dominant, present in the European markets. Therefore, I realize that it is perhaps difficult to imagine a rosy future, in autonomy and in solitude, because the macronumbers are merciless. Just see the size of the companies areas, which reminded us of the Commissioners who spoke at the hearing at the Special Commission on urgent acts of the Government. However, we invite the government that will be there, if there will be (if anything remains what there is, which after all follows the debate necessarily). In fact, the announcements too easy and advance of sale of the Alitalia company (I was to say also the flag company) could be untimely. Therefore, I think we should count to 10 before we take certain solutions for granted. Today, Commissioner's management, with its limited powers, has proved to be wise. All of us, because of our activity, are users of airlines, especially national airlines. Personally I have found, perhaps also because of the fear of destiny, greater punctuality and efficiency in Alitalia. Probably when a company is a bit 'in the balance, those who work there are more cautious, attentive and carry out their work with more diligence. I, who am a frequent user of the company, note that the situation is better. Starting with the conclusion, there is another issue to be addressed. Here we are asking ourselves about Alitalia, about the money that the State has paid us back, about the bridge loan, about the past, about the overpaid managers and about the waste. It is a story with lights and shadows: with many shadows and - hopefully - some light. However, there is also a problem of unfair competition in this area. Indeed, Alitalia claims to be competitive on the markets. It's great to have low cost companies whose tickets are cheap. But who's paying for those tickets? Airport companies, municipalities, etc. You pay with the collections. In order to have the flights of that company (we all know it) that brings a million presences, municipalities and airports tax themselves. In this way, people come and everyone bells. It's fine, but is it subsidized or not? Is that state aid or something? On the plane there is advertising that invites you to visit the city. This ad is paid for. It's not state aid, it's advertising. But what is it? I'm going on the plane - I'm already going there - and I see the commercials. I've already decided to go. What's the commercial on the plane that tells me where I'm going? Therefore, the real theme of Alitalia's future concerns all of us. Unfair competition is also present in the field of information, steel and textiles. Hypervirtuous behaviour cannot be demanded from the main Italian company when others sell cheaply, because - for example - the pilots contract is concluded in Ireland or because the state aid is a public subsidy. Therefore, there is also this situation of unfair competition that Alitalia has suffered and that I wanted to mention so that it remains in the proceedings. This issue of unfair competition must be addressed whatever it is, President Calderoli, the Government that Italy will have, because - believe me - it will eventually have a Government. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u73	I rejoice in your certainty, Senator Gasparri. She's enlisted to speak Senator Wolf. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the decree-law on Alitalia, No 38 of 2018 - several years have passed since the first Alitalia decrees - with urgent measures for the current situation of the flag company, for which the loan is expected to be extended by EUR 900 million and the sales process. We have asked for formal hearings, which have proved to be very important both from the point of view of transparency and from the point of view of parliamentary activity. During the examination in the special committee, we greatly appreciated the speeches made by all our fellow senators. The problems inherent in Alitalia therefore had a great importance, from all the parliamentary groups, emphasizing that, in a country like ours, Alitalia is a strategic asset. This is evident for a nation like ours, with a strong tourist vocation, with a manufacturing market that is among the first in Europe, and for a territory full of cultural riches, geographical and historical beauties, in which the air transport market - this is a concrete fact - stands between the second and the third place in Europe and sixth place in the world. As a parliamentary group, we have studied the subject as much as possible, studying thoroughly the lack of administrative and technical documentation that had been made available, including by the Commissioners, before the hearings. We have brought to light reports of huge fixed costs that have not yet been clarified and we have also tried to understand where Alitalia's current losses can be, which paradoxically appears to be the only airline in Europe that has been losing, in a market that has always been growing for ten years, with a value of around 8% per annum. On the same day that we voted on amendment 1.1 (text 2) and the agenda came the news that the Finance Guard was going to Alitalia's administrative offices, to seize corporate computers and all the economic documentation related to the management of Etihad and also to that of the commissioner. We learn from sources of printing that were immediately collected unclear data, especially in the first three months of 2017, when the company lost several million euros. It has come to the surface, thanks also to our insistence in audition, that high value slots have been sold at a price that may not be reasonable, therefore bringing further damage to the company and that the costs of hedging on the fuel and its covers are not clear, from which could derive the greatest loss for Alitalia. The reason is not the price of the fuel going up or down: it is the covers that can do damage, especially if they are missing. We have also noted problems with wet leasing, i.e. with regard to the rental of airplanes. There are several companies whose origin is unknown, there are companies in Ireland and companies that are part of Italy, but the problem is how much the wet lease costs Alitalia. Following the hearings, Commissioner Laghi made known in the press and not at the hearing that there were credits to be recovered from Etihad of about EUR 600 million and it is therefore clear that our amendment to the special Commission is justified by the possibility of implementing direct and proactive control over the work of the Commissioners and the previous management. The extension of the loan cannot be thwarted and the risk of further loss of state money must be severely limited, when this extension must have the purpose of safeguarding Alitalia, its employees and all the induced, which is often not mentioned. Precisely by virtue of a real change of course - in order to remain on the subject - we can no longer go on the roads already travelled, but we must finally resolve this long story, which now, at two or three years' notice, involves social mattanze, economic losses for the country for the benefit of others and additional Cassa Integrazione, as well as unemployment and this is a defeat for a Government. The air market in Italy has been attacked uncontrolledly and also disinterested by the various governments. Everything has been granted to those who, in fact, have increased their insecurity and reduced their minimum wages, in some cases not even paying a fair tax in our country, but doing what they wanted. The policy has therefore played its part until today, already, but going against the interests of Italy itself, sharing in the destruction of our assets for the benefit of third parties, including the deceptive work of positioning managers presented as great experts, but which in fact have clearly shown that they know how to make interests very different from those of the companies that had had the honour to manage. The truths come out day after day, inexorably, also thanks to those who devote a lot of time to specific issues, deepening in favor of those who have always suffered unjustly, like the Italian employees and citizens, who have been misinformed, always to make the blame fall on those who have not had it. Well therefore the extension of the loan, fact more than responsible for the purposes of the continuity of the flag company; but we cannot think of letting the Alitalia affair still tread the path of always, in silence-consent. Parliamentary activity must return to being active in the important events of the country. We consider it more than appropriate to help our strategic asset to recover credits, instead of making further debts, because to date they are not useful to us. Despite the power of the commissioners over the resolution of unfavorable contracts to the corporate coffers, despite the bad work of the previous administration and of what was even before the brave captains, there is therefore an absolute need to deepen in a transparent way. The prosecutor will do the same, but we, too, are absolutely called upon to do our job. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u75	The general debate is closed. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u78	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech this evening is to remind us that today is the sixth anniversary of the earthquake that hit the territory of my region, Emilia-Romagna, in 2012, causing death and destruction, and that has affected mainly the productive activities. I believe it is necessary today in this House to remember the 28 victims of that disastrous event, the 300 injured, the 45,000 displaced persons and the inherent damages that have invested in the territories of the Provinces of Modena, Ferrara, Bologna and Reggio Emilia. Over the years, thanks to the spirit of collaboration that has involved citizens, businesses, professionals, associations, volunteers, civil servants and institutions, Emilia-Romagna has never stopped. Great progress has been made in the reconstruction process: 87 per cent of reconstruction, which still has issues and issues to be resolved. Six years later the area of the crater, despite seismic events, continues to grow and produce thanks to factories, sheds and new structures made safer and more efficient. Over 10,000 economic activities, shops, offices, craft shops and over 3,000 industrial, craft, agricultural, commercial and service production structures have obtained, thanks also to the commitment of the commissioner delegated by the Government (the president of the Region Stefano Bonaccini) and to the joint work of the MPs (deputees and senators) of the previous legislature, funding to be able to share out. More than 14,800 families returned to their homes, 90 percent of the 16,500 forced out in 2012 after the shocks, and nearly 14,000 again made their homes accessible. The Silveri Gentilon Government, in continuity with previous center-left governments, with the budget law for 2018 has once again shown great attention to the populations and territories affected by the earthquake. I would like to recall the measures contained in the financial statements: extended until 31 December 2018 the deadline by which the inaccessible buildings, affected by the earthquake of 20 and 29 May 2012, are exempt from the application of the IMU; extended to 2019 the possibility for the local authorities of Emilia-Romagna, Lombardy and Veneto affected by seismic events, to suspend the charges related to the payment of the loan instalments granted by the Cassa depositi e loani; increased by 17.5 million euros for each of the years 2019-2020 the endowment of the fund for the reconstruction. There is still much to be done, such a complex reconstruction will still take time to be properly completed, but the stalemate situation in the country and the future prospects increasingly confused and uncertain obviously do not help. I remember, however, that just today, like what has been done in our Emilia-Romagna Region, Gentiloni Silveri has issued a new decree-law in the Council of Ministers that gives the Regions that, unfortunately, are in the same state as mine, the possibility of new tax concessions. All this served as a pioneer, following the concrete example of my Region, of a path that began in 2012, which is still bearing fruit. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u79	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2018-05-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-7.ana.u80	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 30 May, at 11.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.47 p.m.
