ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u1	Good morning. We're going to resume the session. We turn to point 6 of questions for an oral answer by the President of the Council of Galicia. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the predictions of the Galician Union regarding the realization of some action to curb the escalation of prices of electricity and fuels
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u2	Quiet, please. To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Feijó, a previous question. The Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia has just said that its Government has attempted to boycott the 8M strike. It's clear that there's a lot of alpha male and little respect for women's rights at Galician Union. [[Applause]] And, said this, let me transfer my concern to you because the bill of fuel and light keeps rising in a country with wages and pensions to the tail of the state. And your Government is responsible for this situation. In 2014 you announced measures to reduce the price of gasoline and gasoline. Did it work? Fuels have grown in large part because you decided to increase taxes; in the case of gas oil, it has multiplied by four. After four years of cross arms, now in July we are again announced the same measures as in 2014. I mean, you have a lot of propaganda, but you don't really have any alternatives or solutions to this problem. And as for the popular party's contributions to the bill of light, here we're going from bad to worse. The first was the resort of weather; if it rained, it would probably lower the price of light. The result is, since your rule, the bill of light has risen by 84%. Then we were asked to resign. They said they had to get used to paying more for the bill of light. Then came the turning doors; the last plug, a companion of his party: Arsenio Fernandez de Mesa. And finally, the People's Party has set up a German fare in reverse, that is, instead of having compensation, we're going to pay the bill of light more expensive because we're going to be penalized for being producers. And this is a booty of hair and a monumental scam for families and businesses in this country. And you're in charge, you're a necessary accomplice. We know they care if people in this country can't turn on the heating, if there's jobs at risk for the high cost of electricity. The only thing that motivates them is to keep the profits of the electricians. But most of the people in this country agree with us that it is illogical and unfair that, as electricity producers, we have no compensation in the bill or that, having a refinery in the Coruña, we pay absolutely unabated prices for gas oil and gasoline. And to stop this injustice from BNG we make proposals. With regard to gas and gasoline, we have to really sanction the oil tankers, because it's obvious that they're paying the prices up and lowering the tax burden. And, in relation to the bill of light, two proposals: the German tariff and VAT rate, which is 4% high, would save 330 euros on the bill of light. You decide, Mr. Feijóo, which side you are on, whether on the side of Galicia or the energy lobby.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u4	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón Mondelo. The President of the Board has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Pontón, thank you for starting to follow the court judgements. That's a change in BNG trend. I suppose you will abide by all the judgments, Mrs. Pontón, including those concerning Catalan independence? Mrs Pontón, do all the judgments in which the Council of Galicia wins, one after another, all those referred to as the minimum services of conflicts in the autonomous community? And this one we noticed, because it says we don't act properly. Mrs. Pontón, is it not much easier to be a democrat than to be a sectarian? Mrs. Pontón, colorful color, this story is over. Now I propose a magic formula to save 330 euros on the bill of light to the Greeks. O Allah! You keep on taking the yellow hair. We worry about the Greeks who have difficulty paying for the light, and so since 2014 we have set up an electric ticket and help to cut the supply of the light. And that's why from 2014 to 2017 there are thirteen thousand families that are benefiting from the energy policies of the Galician Union. And that's why in 2017 we passed a law, which guarantees access to electricity, in which you voted against. And that's why we're Spain's first autonomous community to complete the State Social Bonus aid; 40% of the State General Administration is funded by the government, 10% by the electricity companies and 50% by the Galician Union. And that's why we tell all the Greek families that they are at risk of social exclusion that they have every day, every month and every year to ask for these help. Mrs Pontón, that is why we have made collaborative protocols with all the supply companies to avoid light supply cuts in Galicia. And that's why, Mrs. Pontón, the Galego Institute of Consumers is available to consumers to file complaints before any electricity company; with you, the claims they paid were those of the electricity companies. Mrs. Pontón, let me bring you an extract from what you said when you were in government about the price of fuels: "I don't know what the German Government can do about the prices of fuels. The possibility of intervention is practically null and void." Mrs. Pontón, what have you changed? We're still working. The only decree that made a government in relation to monopoly, non-compliance and fuel price pacts is this government, decree of the year 2015. From there we made the installation of gas stations more flexible, 64 — 34 registered gas stations and 30 more in processing. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made the first partnership protocol with the National Markets Commission and Competition. Here was the chairman of the National Markets Commission and Competition. I have as President of the Board saying that, in my opinion, there is a pact for gas oil in Galicia to be before taxes one of Spain's most expensive gas oils. You don't know where they were when they were in the government; it was the same, but we did report it. Mrs Pontón, we have agreed with the National Markets Commission and the Competition on a quarterly price report, which is therefore transparent to them, and on strengthening evaluation, follow-up and inspection. But what if we consider, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u7	...is freedom to build independent gas stations in Galicia. And, by the way, Mrs. Pontón, don't deceive any Germans. There's a tax harmonisation since January 1st. In all autonomous communities, fuel taxes will be equal. So, Mrs. Pontón, stop telling them stories about the old nationalist tale. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You have the word, to reply, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u9	Well, I, Mr. Feijóo, regret that you are proud of a judgement by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia that says that you tried to boycott the 8M women's strike and that you did it, in addition, maliciously. That's what a court of law says. You have respect for the women of this country, Mr. Feijóo! It's a real shame! [[Applause]] And look, I think, given the number of advisers you have in your office, you should prepare a little better answers and not always come back to us exactly the same argument. Of course, electric ticket: is that energy poverty has risen, there are 180,000 people at risk of social exclusion, and you, with a measure that doesn't even reach 10%, tell us that the problem is solved. You tell us you've made a report on the issue of fuels, but it's just that, since you made that report and published that decree, the price of fuels in this country has not stopped rising, Mr. Feijóo. So what do the Greeks and the Greeks value about these propaganda reports to cover up that there is no government in the board of assembly that is really able to take action? And look, here's the only magic that makes electricity, which says they have a tariff deficit, but they have a profit only in the last year of five billion euros. During the crisis they won 50 billion euros at the cost of sanding some wages and some people who are in a quite difficult situation. The reality, Mr. Feijóo, is that with his energy policy the bill of light rose by 84%. And we're not talking about magic here, we're talking about political decisions. It's a political decision that there is a Greek tariff. It's about compensating us because we're surpluses in power generation. Other territories are calling for it, but we already know that you are a faithful follower of centralism and are unable to defend the interests of this country. We also have another proposal: let's put the VAT down to 4%, because electricity is not a luxury asset, it's not a Ferrari, we need it every day to be in our homes, and it's also necessary to make our companies competitive. Do you think about it, Mr. Feijóo? Yes or no? We have more proposals. You could, for example, set up a public company to rescue the hydroelectric concessions that are expired; by the data we have, in Galicia-costa there are four. That would mean that these benefits, instead of going to the electrics...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u11	...they would stay in this country. Mr. Feijóo, you could do a lot of things to lower the price of fuels, the price of electricity, if you really had that disposition. We're sorry to have you put the electric lobby t-shirt here again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u12	Thank you very much. The President of the Board has the floor for the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u13	Mrs Pontón, speaking of justice today in the Greek Parliament, I think we could speak long and tender, but you're not interested in that. If you want to talk about a High Court ruling, we can talk about several. Today we knew two of them in the newspapers: one, which condemned Junta for non-compliance with the minimum services, which were badly dimensioned; we accepted it. Another, about a fellow of the People's Party that you have constantly slandered and insulted and which, apparently, the High Court does not see any clue about it. But, as I know that you pronounce the sentences in two ways: one, the ones that executes, and the other, the ones that doesn't, we reiterate that we accept all the judgments, because we are in a rule of law called the Spanish nation. I suppose I'd take note, Your Honor, of my demonstration. [[Murmurs.]] Well, speaking of privileges, twenty-six billion euros is what inherited a government from the People's Party of Power Grants, the so-called tariff deficit. You were ruling with the Socialist Party. Yes, yes, yes, but they ruled every time they gave him a chance to rule, Mrs. Pontón! [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] And they will continue to do so until all time. By the way, the Government of the Socialist Party condemned to electricity companies three billion euros of the cost of transition to competition. You were responsible for energy in Galicia, Industry Council. Mutis for the forum, Mrs. Pontón. [[Murmurs.]] No words, no comments. [[Murmurs.]] Three billion euros for electricity, and inheritance, twenty-six billion euros for debts that we're paying in the electric fare. Mrs. Pontón, look, you bring to the House some matters that I think well deserve. He did it with the Atlantic highway; I thanked him. Now do it again with the light, and I value it. The problem, Your Honor, is that you bring serious matters to the House but your seriousness is lost when you talk about solutions. For all of Galicia's important issues, its solutions are Galicia's independence and Galicia's independence. Yes, Mrs. Pontón, yes. We're serious. If you want to talk about Galician independence, ask me about it. If you want to try to tell the Greeks: is that when Galicia is independent, we're going to pay less light, we're going to pay less for the fuels, Mrs. Pontón, that subliminal approach is very old. What I can assure you is that if the Government of Spain had acted with the same rigor and sensitivity as the Council of Galicia with the problems of families with less resources, today there would be quite less problems in the price of electricity and in the price of fuels. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, who are you going to cheat on with Galicia's own electric fare? Tell the Greeks who's going to pay for the infrastructure needed to keep our network. Why don't you explain to the Greeks just how much the bill would go up for breaking connections with the rest of the state? Why don't you explain something very obvious to the Greeks? An incision. You're against the thermal power station of the bridges and the thermal power station of Meirama, you and the tides. Yeah, yeah, yeah, they're against it. [[Murmurs.]] You say Galicia is surplus in electricity. If we close The Bridges and Meirama, Galicia is automatically deficient in electricity; that is, instead of exporting, we would have to import. Small accounts of the Greek nationalism and the Tides of Podemos!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u15	Great electric fare, gentlemen! We're being offered a huge electric charge!: to pay, to pay the most expensive of the Greeks for an energy simply by ideological planning of closing our thermal and combined cycle plants of the Bridges and Meirama. I'm sure...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u17	...signor, that you, the Tides — and we will see the Socialist Party — will help maintain the combined cycle power stations of the Bridges and Meirama, because if not, I'm laughing at Galicia's electricity tariff. They'll spread the country's energy capabilities. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u18	Thank you very much. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the restoration of the situation in CRTVG
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u19	To put the question, you have the floor Mr. Fernández Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, we are at the moment in the Digital Transition Radio and Television Company and it should be a moment of satisfaction, but, in fact, it is a moment of concern, of discomfort, of frustration. We've had 18 "black Fridays," more and more massive, just because television and radio professionals think there's more and more digital intervention, because there's never been as much privatization as there is now on public television in Galicia and because they open files to critical journalists. I know you don't see Galicia and I don't know if you're listening to Radio Autonomical, I don't know if you're celebrating your frankness or worrying about your release in relation to the public, unless you mean you don't need to attend because you know what they're going to broadcast. [[Applause]] We can't think of anything else if just from the law passed seven years ago you stop implementing those predictions that can rightly limit digital intervention in the public media. No parliamentary election by a qualified majority of the Director-General or, as a result, the Information Council or professional status, or program contracts, or — this already affects other elements — Audiovisual and Audiovisual Council law. They are failing — I have told you more than a year ago — Article 5 on own production; Article 23 on general direction; the 27 on the existence of an advisory council; the 33 on programme contracts; 36 on professional status and on the Information Council; 39 on 48 on 49 on the fourth transitional provision, the fifth transitional provision. They are failing to comply with all those elements of the law of the year 2011 that could rightly limit government intervention on what happens in the public media. Seven years have passed and life follows the same: a premeditated failure, a customary failure and a non-compliance that is unfair to us, because we support that law just because we support it completely, entirely, not partly. And we're not talking about the quality of programming, we're not talking about audiences -- they're different problems -- we're not talking about the need to push another model to incorporate new generations into TV and radio audiences, with the basic objective of strengthening our own audiovisual space. No, no, no, no. We're talking about digital intervention, we're talking about, if you want, the fact that Epi and Blas are pairing wouldn't be said on Galician TV. We're talking about that, if you wanted, there would be a defense of your own partisan interests, instead of defending an objective, contrasted and plural television model that improves our public dialogue. We are talking about pursuing critical journalists, substantially reducing our democratic quality. And don't tell me that it's not up to you, because a general director with a qualified majority in Parliament would have as its main objective just to push all those legal predictions that are unpublished at the moment. It's up to you, Mr. Feijóo. It's up to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Leicega. The President of the Galician Union has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u22	Mr. Leicega, thank you for telling me about public television. I think it's good to talk about public television, Mr. Leicega. And, in respect of that, I'm going to try to talk about Galician public television, because of Spanish television, I suppose you'll already talk to your partners where they rule, since your partner co-governates in Parliament, the Tides of Podemos with you in Madrid. But look, between the Spanish Radiotelevision and the Galician Radiotelevision Company, there's a big difference... without any doubt. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ask both professionals. Reset the situation of the Galega Radiotelevision Company. I wonder, exactly, what do you want to restore? Do you have any nostalgia about how you managed the Gaga Radiotelevision Company? Do you want to talk again about how Radiotelevision Company Galega was managed? Information for PSOE, programs for BNG. Do you want to talk about all that, Mr. Leicega? I want to talk to you about a television show of what I think matters to the Greeks: audiences, prestige, accounts, respect within the FORTA, international respect for what the Company's workers do, the organizational chart... let's talk about it, Mr. Leicega, regardless of what we will then, if we wish, we will talk about other things. In August, second lead audience. We've had three years of seconds after TV3, indisputable audience leaders. July and August, the best summer of the last five at the TV Company. Leaders in information. Do you think the information is manipulated and yet most of the Greeks follow the information? The truth is, it's a way of showing disrespect to the Greeks, who let themselves be manipulated. No, Your Honor, the Greeks, with a click, can switch to television that they consider appropriate and, if you think it's manipulated, you will not see it or the Socialist Party. Radio, second FM wave, 157,000 listeners. You said we were going to end the culture program on Radio; Culture 365 is on the air, with a bunch of collaborators where they showed you were lying to us. They said after we ended up with the local radio news. You, the groups, are in those informations, in the tertules. They lied again. Prestigium and image, respected internationally; TV Galega holds the General Secretariat of the Association of European Regional Televisions. The most impactable channel in Spain. In the last study of FORTA, the channel with the most impact in Spain; 30% of the Greeks over 4 years of age contact Televisión Galega daily. It's the important thing, Your Honor, the important thing is the support of the Greek people. We are Spain's most valued autonomous channel for the dissemination of its own culture and identity. That's the result, Your Honor, of what we're talking about. [[Applause]] Mr. Leicega, we don't owe the Company, no. He's closed with a positive budget result in the last few years and he's got no debt. And indeed, it's becoming the most important, the biggest change since the foundation of the Galician Radiotelevision: the company's digitization. In December 2018 it will broadcast HD and 2019 in Full HD and in 2019 it will have digital platforms, thematic channels, an educational channel, a basic sport channel. Your Honor, about the Director General, how many general secretaries of the Socialist Party do we have to speak to appoint the Director General?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u23	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u24	Do you really believe that the Galician TV can depend on who is the secretary general of the Socialist Party of Galicia? Mr. Leicega, please don't ask for that, because that would be a nightmare of all the Greeks. By the way, who would you have to deal with now? With the Socialist Party or with the Tides of Podemos or both?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u25	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u26	Mr. Leicega, if you like, why doesn't Mr. Pablo Iglesias and Mr. Pedro Sánchez get ahead of us in the next few years? If you think so, we can consider it. No, no, no, no. I mean, Your Honor, the Spanish Radio and Television model is not the serious and independent and professional model of the Galician Radiotelevision Company. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u27	Mr. Fernández Leicega has the floor for the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u28	But if it's much easier than all that, Mr. Feijó: obey the law, obey the law. Point. If you say so yourself, the law provides for a parliamentary election of the Director General and you haven't done it. [[Applause]] And they have nowhere to choose, indeed. They can deal with any of the House's groups; they deal with one, with one. Peace with whom you wish, but peace with you bring it to Parliament. Because I'm sure — I know what my opposition colleagues say — that, if they had to come here to deal with any of the groups, it would be a condition that they put in place the Informative Board, the professional status, the program contract and all the other provisions that the law has and that are not met. Then it's very easy. And don't tell me if the Spanish Television... look, the Spanish Television is in a public contest process to elect its director. That's the model. We might be able to apply it here, too, but here's another one. Yes, yes, you did... you said: the news address had 85% support among those who work in information in a non-binding referendum. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What support would the news director have here? There is an Information Council running since or no 2006. Here's the briefing board, Mr. Núñez Feijóo? Come tell me about these things and then we'll talk about it another day, if you want, about the audiences, we'll talk about all of this, which is a very interesting subject. But look, we're in an exceptional situation. It is not customary for the works council to have to replace a non-existent information committee. It's not unusual for black Fridays to be more and more massive. It's not unusual for award-winning professionals in Spain to see their roles cut off in programs that have a long tradition, it's unusual and extraordinary. It's extraordinary that there are professionals who are filed after they put white on black -- in this black case -- in front of you that there was a problem with digital intervention on public television. [[Applause]] And you don't see TV, and you're probably going to tell me that it has nothing to do with that file, but just like it had nothing to do with that file, don't do anything but solve the problem, because, if this stays, it's going to be an indelible spot, yes, but about your curriculum. What will you tell the Elevol of the future if you ask about this situation, when you ask? [[Laughter]] Think about it, and at the end this is solved very easily, very easily: it pushes the parliamentary election of the Director General, then pushes the Director General's Information Council and professional status, and let's get everyone to the law. That's up to you and it's up to no one else, Mr. Feijó.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Leicega. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u30	Well, obviously you like what they're doing on Spanish Radio and Television, the Greeks have just checked out that this is their model. I believe that it is sufficiently clear, therefore, that we have two different models. Buy the lei. Ladies and gentlemen, if the first thing you did was a royal decree to break the law. The first thing they made was a royal decree to cease the entire Board of Directors, which was selected by the Spanish Parliament, by the Congress of Deputies; a royal decree decree to cease the entire Board of Directors and the entire Directorate of the Spanish Radio and Television Company. But, Mr. Leicega, is that your model of complying with the law? [[Murmurs.]] Does buying the law mean selecting a person by finger to assume all the powers of the Board of Directors and the competence of the president of the Spanish Radio and Television Company in a single-person manner? Is that to comply with the law, Mr. Leicega? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Does it seem to you that we by a board decree have ceased the Board of Directors, which is selected in this Parliament, and say that this is the model of the Galaga Television? But, Mr. Leicega, a decree, laughing at the Senate, gathering in one person the powers of the collecting body, the board of directors, and the television station and then entering the auction of directors: one, proposed by the PSOE, does not like Podemos; the other, proposed by Podemos, does not like the PSOE; the other, proposed by Podemos, does not like him because he has no audiovisual experience. But do you want us to go back to the vodevil that you posed on the Radiotelevision? 77 shifted and fired. But do you think this is your presentation card? [[Murmurs.]] 77 Spanish Radiotelevision professionals quit? Do you know what the news director says? Leo: "I'm a result of the resentment of professionals who don't see their expectations fulfilled." But, Mr. Leicega, is this your model, is that really your model? There is no purge on TV -- says the news director on Spanish TV. But, Mr. Leicega, is this really your model? You say we don't have a warrant or a board of directors. But why do you say that? The framework mandate has been adopted since December 16, 2015, with a nine-year term, ending in 2024. And we don't have a warrant? And then the Board of Directors, the general board of shareholders, Your Honor, the Board of Directors was appointed in January 2016, wins five years, in 2021. How come there's no board of directors? Your Honor, we must now appoint the Information Council. Nomadese, talk... ah! [[Murmurs.]] That's what worries him, what's the information board? The Spanish TV or the CRTVG TV? [[Applause]] But, Mrs Vilán, with all due respect, look, I think it's worth talking about serious issues, talking about hearings, talking about clean-up accounts, talking about digitization, about the Company, because for the few serious issues we already have purges on Spanish Radiotelevision. Look, TV Galega is independent. If the Director makes a decision, he will appear in Parliament. I don't take the staff decisions of the director of public television in Wales; so far we could get here. He's responsible for appointments and staff selection, and in the same way he doesn't consult us to put one or two presenters, it would be the lot he had asked us to leave the earlier appointments void. I mean, when he names, he succeeds, and when he stops, he disagrees. But, Mr. Leicega, what do you mean? That journalists who name what you like are correct and if I stop them then it's digitally directed by the board? Who do you want to confuse?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u31	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u32	Look, Mr. Leicega, allow me: by talking about manipulation, if you like, we copy, but I don't want to copy what the Socialist Party does. We can copy the manipulation of public media, for example with the CIS director. Now it turns out, Your Honor, that in Galicia... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u34	...the Socialist Party is the first political force in the four provinces: in Coruña, Lugo, Ourense and Pontevedra. [[Laughter]] Hey, Mr. Leicega, what do you think if we name the director of the CIS Director of the Galician Radiotelevision Company? [[Applause]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u35	Let's move on to the next question. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. of In Marea, about the form of government action of the Union of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u36	To put the question, Mr. Villares Naveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yes, specifically about manipulation in government action. But allow me, Mr. President of the Board, that my first words should not be for you, but to recognize Ana Romaní publicly for having won the 2018 National Journalism Prize, an extraordinary professional, in front of a great team, the director of the Cultural Diary, a paradigm of plurality, innovation and culture. Ana Romaní, Mr. President. The worst thing is, the most pathetic thing is that you probably don't even know who you are, and you won't know it, because you're the exotic president who doesn't see TV or listen to public radio in your country; will either listen or see Russia Today, or something, rather than overlook the information that comes out of the public communication channels. Well, look, Ana Romaní is the victim of her repressive control over cultural creation and information freedom at CRTVG. At the state level, Ana Romaní deserves a prestigious prize and, internally, Sánchez Izquierdo, the voice of his master, eliminates his program at the same time. Yes, don't be blushing, neither you nor those of your bench, because this happens in more places, yes: it happens in Turkey, it passes in Russia, it passes in those countries where journalists who practice free journalism and denounce the troupe they commit their governments, as happens there with tsar Putin. Here, it would seem better if we were in front of some sort of Putin to the Welshman or a Alberto Putin Feijóo, the Peares Czar..., yes, yes, yes, yes, that eliminates the program with more audience... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u38	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u39	...from Radio Galega, also considered this public radio with its service to carry out the Cultural Diary. But, well, you, because you don't listen to Radio or you're here, you won't know what the end of a public TV is going to be: public service, training and reporting, just what you're not doing right now on Galician Radiotelevision. And you don't. And in the light of this, it's in the information processing of issues that are of interest to our country. Let's give you three examples. The first of them, the informative treatment of the wave of fires. As half Galicia burned, as many villages and villages burned, as many highways burned down, Galician television was broadcasting Galician goals and Land Rober. You can't inform people about what was going on by the public service. Corruption. While in the Spanish state the Gürtell sentence was taken forward by the Government of his colleague Mariano Rajoy, the Galician Television dedicated 76 seconds and did not even regret the fact that one of the chief convicts was number three of the Galician People's Party. And what is already the culmination of manipulation, the main case of corruption affecting your Government, Mr. Feijóo, the Champion case, which ended with the conviction of three persons, one of their fellow MPs when you were already president of the Union and two high-ranking officials of the Government of Galicia, doesn't even deserve an entry all year 2018 on the website information of Galician Television. Well, it's normal that, in the face of this situation, Galician TV workers have already carried eighteen "black Fridays", claiming fairness in the information processing and claiming independence, veracity and objectivity, just what denies them a direction that is at the service of the People's Party and not of Galicia's general interest. Well, in his authoritarian kingdom, as noted here, not everyone wants to live under this boot, and there are citizens and citizens, also journalists, who exercise their citizens' right to revolt against this situation. And for this reason, two journalists, Tati Moyano and Alfonso Hermida, resign the cost of their salary as telexornal presenters so as not to stop this situation of oppression. They resigned to claim the right...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u40	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u41	...to form a free and true public opinion. And that's also why, as you don't even admit that dissident, he sent Sánchez Izquierdo to open a sanctioning file as quickly as possible, to punish Tati Moyano for presenting a beneficial gala against cancer for using Galician TV paintboards.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u42	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u43	You can't be more vindictive and more macho, Mr. President. I'm done. Not as a spokesman for En Marea, but as a citizen who demands respect for free media, I ask you directly, and select you only one of the thousands of articles that you are currently violating, of Galicia's Audiovisual Media Act: when you will fulfill your duty to promote the creation of an Information Council, which aims, according to your own law, to ensure independence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u44	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u45	...the veracity and objectivity of the information content of the public radio and television channels in Galicia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares. To answer that, you have the floor of the President of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u47	It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the co-government exists: one is in Moncloa and another is in Parliament and that they rule together. Ask yourself the two questions about the Galician Radiotelevision Company of the Socialist Party and the Tides of Podemos. And they don't care about the Tide of Podemos, after the show they did with the director of the Spanish Radio and Television, talking about it, they don't care, it's like there's no reality, they live in their own reality. You say it ends not as a spokesman for En Marea; be careful and do not definitely end up as a spokesman for En Marea, Mr. Villares. [[Applause]] You tell me — of course, insulting — whether I know Ana Romani or not. It turns out, when Ana Romaní is appointed to run the program, it's correct, and if you make an opposing decision, it's Feijó's digital finger, even if you don't know Ana Romaní. I'm able to stop people I don't know, and I'm able to name people I don't know, too. [[Murmurs.]] You have a bit of reasoning every day that's more accurate. But, well, he's talking about manipulation. I understand that we can talk about manipulation. Ladies and gentlemen, without manipulation we can't exist. His policy consisted of three things: first, promise to fix the economic crisis; second, to end all those who are not from Podemos, that is, "caste"; and third, to end the constitution and the Spanish constitutional democracy. And from there you set up a political party, starting with why? By manipulation, by manipulation of truth, of reality, of history, of feelings. That's why, Your Honor, you think we're all the same and we're all committed to manipulating. Manipulation is to repeat to the extent that the Greek public education is one of the worst in the state, and it turns out to be one of the best in the state. Manipulate is to say that we take money to private concerts and privatize health, and we are the government that least invests in private concerts. Manipulate is to say that we charge for a discharge of doctors to lower the waiting list. Manipular means we build private hospitals, and they're the best public hospitals in the National Health System. Manipulate is saying we don't defend employment to the same group that wants to close Reganosa, The Bridges, Meirama and Ence, fifteen thousand people in the street. Manipulate is to say that spending on defense must be reduced. Oh, but the turtles in Navantia-Cadiz, those, you have to do them. Let me quote one of the great statesmans of the 21st century, Mayor Kichi: "Kichi defends the production of turtles for Saudi Arabia in the face of the dilemma between manufacturing weapons or eating". And add, "If we don't make ships, others will." What are we left with, Mr. Kichi's companion, Mr. Villares. [[Murmurs.]] Manipulate is to say that AVE is a faraonic work and that it is of high class and a classical and centralizing work and then to say here that we don't throw away by the AVE and that we look elsewhere when ruling the People's Party. Look, manipulating is saying that in Gürtell's sentence, 40 seconds were spent -- now it's gone up to 70 -- and it turns out it's been five minutes. Do you know what you said when the vice president answered this? Leo, literally, "Give me 50 seconds as much as 5 minutes." If you don't care! What's the matter? The important thing is to manipulate, the important thing is not the truth, the important thing is to say that the cultural programs of Radio Galga are eliminated, which eliminate the disconnections of Radio Galga. Look, Your Honor, I'm going to quote another one of your head politicians: "Give me the TV set and you're dedicated to managing." "That there are private means attacking freedom of expression," said his leader Pablo Iglesias, "that's right, except for the private television of Podemos, La Tuerka. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Villares, what do you want? May the Galician Radiotelevision Company be La Tuerka das Mareas de Podemos?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u48	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u49	The Galega Radiotelevision Company is full of professionals and these professionals make this company the leader of hearing from the budget point of view of Spain and the second one if we count the eight channels of Catalan TV3. That's why, Your Honor, a little respect for the professionals at Gaga Radiotelevision. If I was director of Glaga Radiotelevision, you know what I'd wear? His whole appearances, no doubt. [[Laughter]] It's too bad you didn't listen to me. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u50	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Villares Naveira has the floor for replication.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. President, allow me to give you three preliminary considerations. First, we thank you for recognizing your own ignorance and therefore invite you to listen to the Cultural Diary, what remains of it, and the whole historical series over twenty-eight years. We're sure you'll learn a lot about our country's culture and language. Secondly, of course, we were born in the Spanish state with manipulation, we were born to combat manipulation, we were born to fight the cuts and we were born to fight the corruption of the People's Party. And, in Galicia, In Marea was born to send them to you to the opposition, to send them to you to the opposition for practicing bloody policies, as it was to deny the sick of hepatitis C drugs when they were available in the pharmacies and you held the key to that pharmacy and did not open it, and as a result there were people who lost their lives. We are born to take you to the opposition also by denying the existence of sufficient doctors and health personnel in the Greek health system, because there are people who are going to the emergency to heal their diseases and you are not providing material and personal means for them to heal. For that it was born in Marea, of course it was. And look, speaking of manipulation, I'm going to remind you -- because lies have gone too little, and I've already said it here another time -- when you said the same fallacy on whether you were doing it or not that doctors drew high with incentives for it. There is a judgement by the National Audience that overturned the instruction given by the Health Council itself in this regard, urged by the IGC union, I think it's from 2013, and it's also published and has a comment in that regard, a comment by the Court made by a person who talks to you here. Look at, apart from this, the Dean of the College of Journalists of Galicia: "We have an informational circle in Galicia", an informational circle. They are not the words of In Marea, they are not the words of subversives, they are the words of the Dean of the Faculty of Information Sciences. You are breaking the law flagrantly, and let me remind you of two specific assumptions: the need for the approval of a professional status, which is designed to strengthen the quality, professionalism and independence of information services. And secondly, the Council of Informatives, with a view to ensuring independence, truth and objectivity. Seven years have passed since this law was passed. It seems to you that few...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u52	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u53	...—Yes, finished, finished—for this to be approved? Look, it's in Parliament's hands — and you say you can't do anything, but let's go if you and the majority group can! — as Articles 24 and 26 say, dismiss the Director General for a notorious failure to fulfil his duties. Or isn't it notorious that after seven years something as elementary as this isn't met? Which is not unique, by the way, because it is also failing to comply with another rule, in relation to CRTVG, which derives from Legislative Decree 2/2015 on equality. The duty to pass a code of good practice must convey the content of constitutional values...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u54	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u55	on equality between men and women. And you, far from adopting a decree of good practices on equality, what they do is they violate equality through coercion, to prevent women from being able to go to strike on 8 March, as the High Court of Justice of Galicia has just condemned. Is this freedom of information? Is this the freedom of a democratic country that you seek for the whole of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u56	Thank you very much. The President of the Board has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u57	I'm used to your insults, don't worry. Yes, yes, you're talking about hepatitis C again, there you are! [[Murmurs.]] What happens is that in this House, of course, there is someone who can always insult and there is someone who tries to maintain institutional composure. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Villares, I will repeat the explanations given to your government partner in Madrid, the Socialist Party, regarding the framework mandate and the Governing Council. Look, the Board of Directors has been appointed to this House. I recall that in the Governing Council the representatives of the Socialist Party had 50 votes — they should have 58 — because half of the Socialist Group did not vote the Governing Council itself on behalf of the Socialist Party, which I proposed to the People's Parliamentary Group. See if we are institutional that we solve the internal problems of the Socialist Party, and now it turns out that the Socialist Party has once again changed its leadership, the Tides of Podemos are about to change their leadership and then we would have to re-elected the Board of Directors and the director of the Glaga Radiotelevision. That is, depending on the weakness of the opposition, it changes the director of Radiotelevision Galega. But you will understand that this is not a public television, that is La Tuerka in a strict sense, La Tuerka in a strict sense. I know that in La Tuerka there is much more stability, he always sends Pablo Iglesias, Mr Erezón has nothing to say in La Tuerka. But this isn't La Tuerka or Television Us. No, Your Honor, this is a TV set of a thousand professionals, who compete twenty-four hours, who come out open for everyone and which turns out to be one of the most valued regional channels in Europe, Your Honor; but not since we arrived, but in all governments since the creation of the Galician Radiotelevision Company. And you're disregarding those professionals. He would like you to have half the half of the rating that the Galician Radiotelevision has within the Greeks, Your Honor. You'd like to have some rating! [[Applause]] In fact, look: I should first have to put Mr Andrés School — I respect all the professionals. We may not want to. We can propose another Welshman, Mrs. Ana Pardo de Vera, but she is rejected by the Socialist Party. Then we can propose another professional, Andrés Gil, but it is also rejected by the professionals of Spanish Radio and Television. Is that what you're telling me? Is that what you're telling me? [[Murmurs.]] But, Mr. Villares, is it really not embarrassing to bring the independence of the public media to this House after the spectacle they have just performed and the great seizure of the last forty years in Spain between the Socialist Party and We can on Spanish Radio and Television? Mr. Villares, look, don't manipulate. I don't see TVG or any other television channels, you know why? Because I'm president of the board and I have my obligations under schedule, which doesn't mean that you don't read, read — read — the information from the Ser Chain, the Zero Wave, the National Radio, the Galician Television, the Spanish Television, of course. Or do you think I'm not aware of what The Tides of Podemos do? That, that I'm perfectly informed, just as much better than you. [[Laughter]] If you want information about what might happen to you, talk to me, I'll give it to you. Therefore, Your Honor, I read, I read, Your Honor, I read. [[Laughter]] I have great cordiality for the leadership of Podemos in Galicia. Now it turns out I've been briefed today that there's another opponent now, and I wish you luck. But look, I used to tell you earlier: if the company's director wasn't independent, i.e. if he was more or less the director of La Tuerka or Spanish Television, because we could tell him: "Hey!," why didn't you -- you told him earlier -- all Mr. Villares' appearances complete? From what I was saying earlier to what I was saying now. Do you remember that Villares saying, I'm a part of the Constitution? I defend the Spanish Constitution, and I know that this will not work for others. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Villares, what do you think of the Constitution? What do you think, Mr Errejón or what do you think of your boss of En Marea, the Mareas representative at the Congress of Deputies? Mr. Erregón... Sorry, Mr. Villares... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u58	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u59	...if you were twenty-four hours on Galician TV, we wouldn't need to buy a lot of programs; we would have episodes of fiction, horror episodes, mood episodes and even police episodes; if not, ask your Rearview Officer if this has anything to do with a police episode. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We moved on to the next point, of non-law proposals, which we resumed yesterday. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members, on the actions of the Galician Union to ensure that, during the X legislatura, the cost of the planned (non-emergency) displacements of persons in a situation of dependence, disability or mobility problems, guaranteeing the universality and gratuitousness of this service is fully realized.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u61	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Noela Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u62	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. It doesn't matter if you leave, because I'm sure that on TV Galega you can see the initiative we're going to discuss right now with the PSdeG, at least you can see the people's voicer reply by criticizing the Government of Spain; that's what we're completely sure about. [[Murmurs.]] Anyway, even if we don't have a little left of CRTVG, always...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u63	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u64	...we will have the magnificent contribution of the president of the board to a series that is very current, the flour. So at least, even if we can't thank you for the management of CRTVG, yes for that contribution in that big series. [[Applause]] First of all, I want to greet the entities working for the people with disabilities who accompany us today: Fademga, Autismo Galicia and Fegadace. We are now going to debate an initiative which deals with the inheritance received, which is so often criticized. "In the next year, we will launch an adapted transport service so that older dependents can continue living in their own homes, without needing to be transferred to a residence. With this service, which will be called 065, those people who need to go to the doctor, to a day centre or to an administration will have a suitable means of transport in order to do so." These are words gathered in Mr. Touriño's speech book, edited by Parliament of Galicia. It's money you gave in the debate of the state of Autonomy of 2007. Unfortunately, we do not hear the current President of the Council of Galicia again repeat these words. You cannot repeat them either this year in the debate of the state of Autonomy, because your policies in recent years, in the years of government, have been directed towards independence from dependents. They were perhaps, ladies and gentlemen, one of the most obvious manifestations of this lack of social sensitivity, that lack of commitment to citizenship and that dismantling of the welfare state that the People's Party is practicing. He defeated a public service, who was a pioneer in Spain, who was born to contribute and increase the degree of personal autonomy and individual freedom and which was also based on an inheritance received, that Law on the Promotion of Personal Self-Government and the Greek Law on Social Services. In 2007 the decree regulating this service was published, a demand displacement service; i.e., emergencies and health transport were excluded. In an autonomous community with great dispersion of population, with small nuclei -- it must also be remembered that there are 1,716 nuclei in the autonomous Greek community that have a neighbour, and only in Ourense there are two thousand that have less than twelve -- with a high ageing, which makes displacements difficult, with many larger ones living alone, with public transports that at many points in the rural are completely non-existent, with taxi service that in many places is not adapted to these people with disabilities and that it also has some prices that are difficult to afford for many people, this service has at that time assumed a true oxygen balloon for thousands of people in this country. They used it to go to medical appointments, to residences, to day centers, to travel as often as possible, ladies, as they could go to the social center of their village to put a lot of letters with their neighbors and neighbors, something that is as normal and that ended up as it's over. And I always had this service with an escort service, a person who was going on that bus, who was waiting for the transfer of these people with disabilities and dependents. Imagine what this could have meant, for example, for a neighbor or neighbor of Vilarino Frio, who has Montederramo eight kilometers away and Castro Caldelas a thirteen miles away; for a neighbor and neighbor — Mrs. Rodil — of Ribeira de Piquin, 13 miles away from Meira, that availability of transport. The only thing that was requested was that they had a difficulty, that they believed that difficulty of mobility, dependency and a degree of disability over 65 per cent. As soon as Mr. Feijóo arrived at the Galician Junta, this service began to degrade at steep steps. There are numerous complaints — at that time — from both the opposition groups and the people themselves who received it. There were questions of receiving incomplete services; i.e., they had travel back and forth, lack of response to requests, big delays of more than two hours in the gathering, and that of that worker and welfare advisor, who today has the duality of being environmental advisor and candidate of the People's Party of the Crown, because what he did was put the wagon in front of the oxen, i.e. first left these people without the service. Imagine what it can mean for an older person to receive a letter at home, a letter — let's be frank and speak according to the reality of our country: there are many people who can't read — and that in this kind of circumstances — receiving a letter with an official Galician board logo — the first is fear; the second is going down to tell a neighbor: read me, please, what you put here; and the third is that they tell you that in the morning you're going to miss these services, you won't be able to go to the pharmacy, to the health center, or just, as you told them, to go to the social center to do any sort of activities that organize the councils as well. You know the strategy, don't you? First, to degrade public services to maximum extremes and then to say that it needs to be more efficient by privatizing it. And that's what was done in 2014 with that decree that came after the 2013 release of the service portfolio, which privatized a part of it. What were you doing? The degree of disability was increased to access this service, from sixty-five to seventy-five; it was left at the junta's discretion to set maximum intensity of use; it consisted of a trip and one back as two separate services; it removed the obligation to have an accompanying monitor, and the status recognition of 065 did not imply a right to that benefit; it did not set a time limit to request and cancel services, which up to that moment was forty-eight hours; and, in addition, it overburdened disability entities with a responsibility that did not correspond to them. Now, part of this service is managed by these entities, by different modalities, with contracts for the management of public squares of day centres, own resources and financing of the individual; services that are fully privatized and that have to pay 100 percent to the user; partnerships agreements between associations, because, of course, large associations had transport vehicles but small ones had to make an important budgetary effort. Furthermore, the Galician Union is paying these entities very much under the real price of these services. And here's an example: an entity that treats people with brain damage and gives service to ten people in a province is a loss of nearly 3,000 euros a year for services that are co-financed by the Government of Galicia. That's what they're funded because, I repeat, there are many that aren't. A price of nine euros per route and transport to finance — as I told you — between entities, Union and users. A minimum of EUR 30 and two, a person who receives EUR 450.70 per month — I repeated it again in case I had not been heard by Members and Members of the People's Party: EUR 450.70 — for twenty trips paid EUR thirty-five. When the terrible evil of the Bipartite—with that government led by Mr. Touriño, where the vice-presidency fell into the hands of the Nationalist Block Galego—it was free. The millionaires are now paying one hundred and three euros, ladies and gentlemen, when they previously paid twenty-eight euros. Of course, we have to add the coke from the center of the day. With which simply in the service of assistance families in Galicia are spending more than 500 euros a month. This measure was criticized by all opposition groups, of course, by the PSdG, social entities, by the College of Social Workers and by the People's Valdoria itself in that Report on the Rights of Persons with Intellectual Disabilities in Galicia and by the Reports of 2014, 2015 and 2016. And he said things like, "Adjusted transport problems affect the whole territory, but they're more rural settlements. The former Labour and Welfare Council reformed it, but without positive results for people who had difficulties before." This isn't what PSdG says, gave it to the People's Valley. Longest and most expensive offsets are not being covered by the centers. Like any pioneering service that is of progressive application — as was the whole Dependency Law — it has to be improved over time. We, from the PSdG, recognize that there were, of course, yes, because it was a service that, as I said, had been working for very little time. But what was done instead was to reduce it to rubble and move the problem and that management to families, to dependents and, of course, also to social entities. In a tremendous exercise of irresponsibility by the Greek Government at a very complicated moment of economic crisis. We assume that now in a context of economic growth, and now that the new arrival of the Socialist Government to the Moncloa, because he did until the People's Party spoke of dependence, that they simulate that concern differently from the dependency; yes, yes, simulation unlike the dependency is what you are doing. Well, while his attitude in the years of government was a declaration of independence from dependency policies, because that was the reality of these last few years both at the state level and at the autonomous level. With which today — because they have always been demanding the Government of Spain — like us we seem to be electoralism — they have the opportunity to prove that it is not electoralism, that they really believe that there is a need to change the policies of attention to dependents and support this initiative. And nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. There's a problem with time, but I'm going to count the minutes. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Monserrat Prado Cores. I'll let you know when it's over so you can control time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u66	Well, good morning. And also greet the people who accompany us from the rostrum. In fact, the BNG in the short time we've been in the Joint Government has taken very seriously the attention of dependency and persons with disabilities. And in a very short period of time he began to set up a pioneer service, the Personal Mobility Support Service, 065; a fundamental instrument in the real accessibility policy of services and facilities. Because politics has to be real, it doesn't have to be just speech, advertising, and staying in the papers. Something as basic as facilitating unemergency programmed displacement for people with mobility and travel problems in security conditions, with precise means and with support from accompanying personnel during the transfer. And what was that supposed to mean? So overcome the difficulties of the population dispersal that we have in Galicia, thirty-five thousand nuclei of population, a very evident deficit in public transport and, in addition, a public transport that is not adapted to the needs of many people with functional diversity. And so that these people with functional diversity could have the same right to access health services, social services, training services, to have a life, at least a little more autonomous, because it's not autonomous at all, but at least a little more autonomous. But a project that was in progress, which was already in progress, which was already in progress, that there were already a number of vehicles, which was already in progress with the staffing of many others, in this came the People's Party, came the cuts of the People's Party. And the adapted transport, 065, for the People's Party was expensive, no longer subsidized, no longer subsidized daily transport, weekly transport and reduced it to timely cases and introduced the coops. And in the literature that accompanied this decision, we can read in the publication of things in the CEOs as "the need for new scenarios of rationalization and efficiency in management," "the purpose of improving with criteria of efficiency and efficiency the provision of service"... under this word, which was hidden, were cut down and practically the elimination of something so necessary — I insist — so that this personal autonomy that is in the papers can become a reality. The question was cut, inequality between associations, exclusions and throwing at the expense of family members and social entities that autonomy could become something of reality. The excuse for the crisis again and, of course, there was no money. There was no money because the money had to save the banks and they had to be able to keep the business easier for them, for example, for the electricians, or those 50 billion profits that still have the electricity. There was no money or money to make life easier for most of the population, to make life easier for people with functional diversity. And money always has to go to their pockets, they always have to go to save the banks, to save the big companies in order to make it easier for the least of them to have millions of benefits. But money can't make it easier for people to live. Questions as simple as going from house to bus stop as it's impossible for many of these people, if they had to afford this transport it would be impossible and it's impossible. And he pushed many of these people, mainly from the areas of the villages and rural areas, to be deprived of this benefit, to which the entities who could lend it because they did so and those who did not then be held in the houses, and that the families who were able to provide this service did so and those who were not held in custody. We will therefore vote in favour of this Socialist Party initiative. And I suppose the People's Party will look again at the issue of resources. I insist: those resources that don't concern those who have the most and that it's so easy to reason them out and get those who have the least and those who need them the most. For now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u67	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Mrs Vázquez Verao has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u68	Good morning. The first is a reminder to all the victims of violence that we suffered in the last few hours, especially those two girls who were murdered yesterday; yesterday we didn't have a memory for them. [[Applause]] And adapted transport, indeed, is a fundamental public service for ensuring equal opportunities, because we are talking about equal opportunities. Whatever we are, we have the same rights. And, specifically, this Galego Personal Mobility Support Service, 065, is a fundamental tool for people in a dependent or functional situation, those who cannot use collective public transport, to be able to access services and resources — which have already been broken down here — that are fundamental not only to their life in general but to precisely facilitate their personal autonomy, to facilitate a process of personal autonomy. Finally, it was created by a progressive government, but in 2014 it was worsened by the People's Party's Union. I would like to remember how the adapted transport service was defined, because it was literally defined as "a public service of a social nature to assist in the planned and non-emergency displacement", which was developed through a -- and I quote also literally -- "the public responsibility network." What happened? For with the Decree of 2013 and 2014 of the People's Party, with the famous alibi to look for those criteria of efficiency and efficiency in the provision of the service, for there was a "dissolvement" — I use the word of Mrs. Blanco — of that public service, dividing, on the one hand, the non-urgent scheduled displacements of the regular nature, when the previous regulation included both modalities and a way of making sense that people who need regular transport did not have the same or greater needs for displacement. Thus, regular transport has been subject to co-operation with the consequence — it has been said here — inequality of access to service on the part of people with less economic capacity. What about the new regulations of the People's Party? For the degree of disability that should be believed for access to the service would pass from sixty-five to seventy-five percent; that the criterion of the Board would be left to set a maximum intensity of use; that they would count as two travels a round trip and as different services, although of course it would be the same; that the obligation to count on transport with monitor assistance or accompanying monitor should be removed; that the new regulation should not set a barrier to determine the preference for access to the service, and that priority should be given in order to enter requests. For us this is a clear dismantling of the concept of public service. And it is that in addition to these changes, they have carried out important work and spending in addition to associations — some of these disability groups are accompanying us today — and they have mainly affected the most disadvantaged and, above all, people in these most widespread rural areas. We live as we live, our country has a dispersed population, we have to adapt services to the territory. We are once again conditional on basic services, basic rights, right to equal opportunities, depending on people's economic capacity. And once again Junta releases its responsibilities to social entities. In this sense, the social groups working with disabilities have also transferred to us the great economic deficit that involves the assumption of adapted transport, having lost that condition of public service, and have also asked us to consider the special needs of this service for certain groups. And it's just that functional diversity, disability is not a homogeneous issue, there are different needs. For example, people with acquired brain damage who require specialization. That's what we need to do better, too. We, of course, are committed to continuing to bring to this parliament the needs that have transferred to us the entities and social groups that work with disability. One more question, a specific question, but which for us is very important: to transport adapted in a non-emergency and non-regular way — in this case we are talking about non-regular — people in a dependency situation have a right, people with disabilities now over seventy-five percent, and, exceptionally, they can obtain the condition of users who have a degree of disability equal to or greater than thirty-three percent and less than seventy-five percent, whenever the competition of circumstances that advise the use of adapted transport is believed, and so it is in the unified social report. In this sense, the fact that the Board is going to favour the non-petition of social report in the assessment of disability will also entail loss of rights to citizenship. And here you can also remember that delays in the assessment of disability, of course, keep people without services for months to those who have a right. In short, we're talking about a fundamental service, it's about allowing people with functional diversity in a dependent position to move to services that are necessary for their daily lives to be more dignified. In order not to be seen as luxury services I quote these services: medical consultations, transfers to care centres, programs or activities of these centres, educational and training activities that promote labour integration and the promotion of personal autonomy — so that these people can promote their own autonomy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u69	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u70	...person—and attend activities related to personal care of a therapeutic or rehabilitation nature. In short, we have to recover together the condition of public service of adapted transport because it is a guarantee of equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u71	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. The People's Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. It is interesting that the socialist spokesman for speaking on such an important subject as the service of adapted transport brings to this chamber a book with Mr. Touriño's speeches, praising that social policy on the nationalist part of that Government of Galicia, formed by the Socialist Group and the Galego Nationalist Block, because in that book perhaps in the official speeches Mr. Touriño, as the socialist spokesman says, praised these actions of social services, but then in the media what Mr. Touriño said was that the Galician Nationalist Bloc had a chiringuit mounted on the theme of social services. So I don't think you're absolutely in agreement with what was being done at that time. You come here to say that the People's Party talks about dependency since the Socialist Party is in the government of Spain. I think that is lacking in this respect not only to the Members of this House, but to many people who are currently in need of those aids from the Dependency Act. And, on the other hand, here the only independence that was declared concerning dependency was the independence that you declared. By the way, by buses and very important budget by the Galician board, which had to go to the dependents. And if we're talking about the adapted transport service, of which 065 was actually born in 2008, but it was born as a programmed, non-urgent displacement aid service for people with disabilities or dependents who could not use the ordinary transport service. This is reflected in that decree of the year 2007, in its first article. But you say in your initiative that until 2014 service was universal and free. And we want to explain here today that service was neither universal nor free until 2014. Look: you know that during those years the use of the adapted transport service was for regular transport services, when the initial goal of this service was to cover timely transport. Well, 80 percent of the users of that service during those years covered regular daily service. There were cases where in the same center there were users who were paying for the transport and other users who did it free on the service account of 065. Users complained that this situation made many users of on-the-spot transport out of service. The opposition denounced him. He denounced it because they presented several initiatives in this parliament, and asked the Galician Board to correct these service deficiencies in the face of constant complaints from users. Well, this is what the Galician Union did: correct the deficiencies of the adapted transport service, reviewing the service to increase and improve user attention and divide transport into two modes: a time-programmed mode of transport, 065, and another regular mode of transport. Timely scheduled transport, in 065, in the decree of 2007 said that users of the Galego Mobility Support Service should give rise to an economic counterbalance for each shift and that the percentage of participation will be determined by the applicant's economic capacity. This is in the 2007 decree. In the decree of 2014 freeness is guaranteed by decree, when previously contemplated the coke. The universal service. Over the past four years, over 30 percent of the applications received from this service have been increased. Thus, users increased, and once there were users who were left without the service. Regular transport. It is regulated by the decree of the year 2013, and the Social Services Wallet is defined for the attention of dependent persons. This transport is now being provided by disability institutions where there are concerted joint squares. Third sector entities that are fundamental to the provision of social services in Galicia; of course, for us, for the People's Party, because for you in many parliamentary debates what you want is that third sector entities cease to be part of the provision of social services and that it is the Union that does not cooperate with third sector entities. Of course, we do believe that third sector entities are fundamental to providing basic social services in Galicia! [[Applause]] The cost of this regular transport starts to be covered for the first time with funding from the Galician board service, and the people who use this service participate in their operation according to their economic capacity, as already marked by the decree of 2007. Therefore, on this initiative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, what is required is that non-emergency planned movements be universal and free of charge. And today we've come to tell you here that the unemergency scheduled transport, 065, is more universal than ever, and is guaranteed its freeness by decree. What you didn't do. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u73	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. You have the floor on behalf of the parliamentary group who is the author of the non-legislative proposal to Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u74	Thank you very much, President. The first is to thank both the Galego Nationalist Block and En Marea for supporting this initiative. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, do you know what it's like to miss out on dependents? Lacking respect for dependents is to reduce from 2012 to 2017 some four billion euros of state input; two billion euros to autonomous communities, one thousand nine hundred million euros with that elimination, dramatic elimination because of how the dependent caregivers were produced. [[Applause]] Four thousand six hundred million euros. There were things to correct. We agree, but if we say so. But to me when they say this, i.e. when they use the excuse of correcting, removing, they remind me a lot of what Mr. Bush said -- I've told them sometimes -- that for the sake of not burning the mountains, we better cut down the trees. And you practice exactly the same. Of course, so that it's not wrong, we eliminate it, that's not wrong. You lied in this gallery. Because it's not true that he had paid before and now he had been free. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You've quartered and separated the services, and there's a part of the service, the least, which is free. And the People's Valley says, "Transports considered to be non-regular that continue to be treated were limited in terms of the number of services they previously provided, especially in weekend movements or with alternate periodicity, which were reduced to half." I mean, half of what they left went back to half of it, and the other side of it is managing social entities, some of them, because not all of them. There are no social entities in all the peoples of the Autonomous Community of Wales, nor are there social entities that can afford to make the routes of all the municipalities and villages. And there are people -- as Mrs. Prado Cores said here -- who have to stay in their homes for their policies. And if I'm gonna keep saying that you're independent of the addicts, of course you are. They did it when they were in the Government of Spain, and they're doing it right now. Look, we'll have time to talk about this, but report to AGAT, of early attention: they have no respect for the minors, or for the children and children of this autonomous community. Early attention from zero to six years: Galicia is the autonomous community that spends less per child and year throughout the state. [[Murmurs.]] Andalucía, fifty-eight euros per child and year; Galicia, fourteen, ladies and gentlemen, fourteen! This is about people with disabilities and the children of the People's Party in this autonomous community. [[Applause]] As for third sector entities, see if we respect them until we thank them for doing what you are unable to do. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because it was precisely the entities of the third sector that were a real mattress for families, for citizenship and for their families during the years of crisis, where there was a German government and an absolutely absent government of Spain, and they and they were, the social entities who came to rescue many people because of their inefficiency, ineffectiveness and, above all,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u75	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u76	...lack of commitment to citizenship. Because, in the end, what we've seen denounce and what we're saying today about the dismantling of the welfare state is the lack of commitment to what you so boast about with the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] And thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u77	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Galician people, at the initiative of Da Marta Nóvoa Churches and six other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Union before the Government of the State in respect of the Order, of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition, which establishes territorial supplements in relation to the electricity access fees corresponding to the financial year 2013
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u78	This motion for a non-legislative amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas Bergantiños, through her spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-law proposal.Amendment of amendment.The text of the resolution of the non-law proposal should be replaced by the following:"The Greek Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to demand from the Government of the State:1. Excluding Galicia from the Annex to the Order that is being processed with respect to territorial supplements for the financial year 2013, whereas environmental taxes imposed by the autonomous administration should not be abolished by the people of the Greek consumer.2. If legal and political resources do not prosper in the application of territorial supplements, ask the State to assume all costs which are required to comply with these judgments.3. To request the derogation from Articles 16.4 and 17.6 of Law 24/2013 of 26 December 2013 from the Electric Sector which provides for the possibility of impacting territorial supplements on consumer persons by imposing penalties on producer communities and an interference with Greek environmental tax powers."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[(G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Abel Losada Álvarez, through his spokesman and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative amendment.Amendment.The text of the resolution of the non-law proposal should be replaced by the following:"The Greek Parliament urges the Gounta de Galicia to request the Government of Spain to carry out the action necessary to carry out the legislative amendments to the Act 24/2013, of the 26 December, of the electric sector, and in the IET/221/2013, of 14 February and IET/1491/2013, of 1 August, adopted by the former Government of Spain with regard to the territorial supplements for the exercise 2013, with the objective that those environmental taxes established by the autonomous administration should be assumed by the owners of the facilities or activities affected, all with high profits or non-]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[(G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Francisco Casal Vidal, through his spokesman and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal.Amendment of amendment.The text of the motion for a resolution must be replaced by the following:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Council of Galicia to:1. To urge the Government of the State and the Ministry of Economic Transition to amend Order ETU/66/2018 of 26 January, and the Proposal for a Command of August 2018 which develops it, to calculate the autonomous charges in the fees of the electricity tariff corresponding to the financial year 2013, adapting them to the two judgements of the Supreme Court on the application of art. 17.4 of Law 54/1997 in its wording given by Royal Decree Law 20/2012 of 13 July, which impose on subscribers of an autonomous community the autonomous charges on electrical supply activities, understanding the same references as regulated transport and distribution activities, but in no case the liberalized production activities.2. As a result of the change in paragraph 1, declare null and void the charges estimated in the August 2018 Order Proposal calculated on environmental taxes of electrical production activities.3. Make all the reports necessary to demonstrate the causes and environmental fate of Canon Wind; Canon of Sanitation; Tax on Air Pollution and Environmental Damage Tax due to certain uses and uses of encouraged water.4. Regulate, document and develop legislation in a proper manner to ensure the destination of taxes collected by canons and taxes referred to in point 3 to environmental improvement in areas affected by production facilities affected by such taxes.5. Instituting the Government of Spain and the Ministry of Ecological Transition, while it is not fully derogating from Law 24/2013 of 26 December 2013 of the Electric Sector, which in turn repealed Law 54/1997 of 27 November 1997 by derogating Article 16 thereby eliminating the authoritative nature of the inclusion of territorial supplements in access fees."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u79	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Novoa Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u80	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Today the People's Group brings an extremely topical initiative, related to the possible increase in the bill of light for the Greek consumers. In the last few days when the price of electricity marks its highest prices, it seems of vital importance to us to request that in no case the Greek consumers have to pay another overcharge than they have no responsibility. Although it's already a topic discussed in this parliament on more than one occasion, I'm going to explain in a simple way what territorial supplement is. The territorial supplement would result from the application when electrical activities, — I insist — electrical activities were recorded with taxes of an autonomous or local nature, and at the price of electricity a territorial supplement could be added to it. This, ladies and gentlemen, is what was stated in the 1997 Electric Sector Act. In other words, these supplements will be an optional instrument that with the Royal Decree of 2012, on measures to ensure budgetary stability, has become compulsory. While the new Electric Sector Act of December 2013 was not approved, the Act in which these supplements would once again be optional, was in force the decree in which these supplements were mandatory. The Government of the State calls upon Galicia through the ETU/66/2018 Order to apply supplements to three taxes — I insist: by the 2013 collection alone — which would be the air pollution tax, the taxes on the use and use of embalmed water and the wind canon tax. The aforementioned taxes were launched by various autonomous governments, both by the People's Party governments and by the bipartisan government itself. And, of course, we imagine that the rulers who implanted them never thought that environmental taxes that penalise the impacts on environmental pollution — worth redundancy — were carried out by the companies that cause them to have to pay them to the Greek consumers. These taxes, ladies and gentlemen, in no case do they record the consumption of electricity, nor do they refer to the production or generation of electricity. Ladies and gentlemen, it should be noted that in this line the current Government of the Galician Union has been and continues to be consistent in demanding from the Central Government the withdrawal of Galicia from the Territorial Supplements Order by 2013, because it is not taxes that save electricity, because it is environmental taxes. Therefore, in no case can they be affected by the Greek subscribers. The Government of Galician Union brought a litigation against the order issued by the Ministry of Industry of the former Government, and it is mandatory for the People's Group to call on the new executive to respond to this conflict. I repeat, therefore, that the Government and the People's Group are consistent in claiming a solution to this important conflict to the last two governments of the State. After hearing these days a balance of the first hundred days of government, after attending the continuous reverberations of that bench, by the Socialist Group, of the flaming government with ministers and more ministers in history, I have to point out here that in the energy field the new government also leaves a series of measures that seriously harm the Greek consumers. I'll say three of them: First step: the new Minister of Energy Transition, who defines himself as deeply ecological and committed to the environment, has declared war to the coal plants and warns that they must be closed as soon as possible. Close down the power stations without putting any alternative to guarantee power supply and, of course, the most important for the Galician community, to put at risk more than 2,000 jobs in today's thermal power stations at Bridges and Meirama. And yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, a bill was passed in Congress at the instance of the Asturias Forum in which the Socialist Group in Congress once again put up a profile and recognized that the thermal power stations are not in their plans and will try to close them as soon as possible. Second measure: the lack of a solution to companies with high electricity consumption, both from Galicia and the rest of Spain, by not compensating these industries with the aid of one hundred and fifty million euros as provided for in the assumptions made by Mr. Rajoy's Government for 2018 and from which Mr. Sánchez is collecting revenue. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of this, it is the risk of survival of Galician companies such as Alcoa, Megasa or Ferroatlantica, which employ more than three thousand and five hundred people in our community, and whose electric bill represents forty percent of their production costs. And there are no two without three, third measure: the flaming announcement of the rise of taxes to diesel, the technology employed by most vehicles owned by the Greeks. Specifically, a measure that will affect more than six hundred and fifty thousand drivers, which will withstand significant increases when they have to fill their tank. Ladies and gentlemen, diesel cars are the ones that use the most vulnerable families and middle class families in our community. Direct consequence of this globe probe or measure of "extreme necessity" qualified by Mr Sánchez is the concern of our industries in this sector, which employ more than 12,000 direct jobs in our community, with important billing data and being export leaders, as well as, of course, in the same manufacture of diesel motor cars. You see, ladies and gentlemen: only three measures in a hundred days of the Flemish Ministry of Ecological Transition, which show the true face of socialist governments, based primarily on the rise of taxes and the unlimited rise of unemployment in our country. In the line of aims that is being the new government of the state, last week, in the midst of a spectacular escalation of the prices of electricity, comes the minister of Ecological Transition, all looking forward to seeing that he would announce, many advertisements, many publicity and propaganda — that Mr. Losada loves to say that about the governments of the People's Party, but they are the most publicists in history, this nobody can deny — and announces a measure, absolutely plagiarized by the People's Group, which he registered and even debated in Congress two days ago. Ladies and gentlemen, in the electricity sector the energy transition — we often repeat it in committees in this Parliament — is of vital importance for the coming years, and measures such as those I have just summarized for nothing help contribute to an orderly energy transition, which is assumed in cost and which does not endanger energy supply. The German Government knows this and works every day to facilitate initiatives that may entail a price loss of light, such as the wager for renewable energies. And, of course, in order to help the most needy, he's been taking years with initiatives that facilitate the lives of the most vulnerable families. Examples are the Social Electric Ticket and the recent order that was executed and approved in the last session, which will prevent consumers from being cut off in a situation of severe vulnerability. [[Applause]] We spent a few years having energy at an affordable price to head the European Union's first positions. And I think it's important to emphasize that the situation of the electricity system that the People's Party found in 2011 when it arrived in government is very different from the inheritance received by Mr. Sánchez just three months ago. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the same thing to leave a hole of more than twenty-six billion euros, a tariff deficit that never stopped growing and that we have to pay all consumers, that we have to leave a tariff deficit content, and it can be allowed that over the past two years a portion of the bill that represents 40 percent of the electricity bill has not increased. That was the fundamental reason for the essence of the 2013 Electric Sector Act: correcting Mr. Zapatero's government's plans, since the situation of the electricity sector in our country was unsustainable. We agree that the electrical system may need or require a reform, but it has to be guaranteed. We can't make mistakes from the past as the disproportionate impulse of renewable energy when they were extremely expensive, which were too high — as I said before — that we are paying on a third of our bill, nor are we endangering the supply of energy, for not responding to the closure of nuclear power plants or coal. And, of course, we cannot reach the government and, instead of presenting a plan for reform measures that guarantee electricity supply and contain energy prices, introduce concern in the sector with threats of central closures, with threats of taxes rising without any control. I insist: in this case, the Galician People's Group brings to this plenary a simple proposal, which asks the Central Government to exclude Galicia that its consumers have to be penalized by paying a supplement on their bill. I would like to highlight with this initiative the coherence of the People's Group, which we call for an agreement with the Socialist Group of Galicia in the previous government which excluded Galicia from this order. And now with the new government of Pedro Sánchez we are obliged to claim it again. It cannot be, ladies and gentlemen, that taxes imposed on companies that exploit resources that cause environmental impacts are impacted on consumers in the Galician community, benefiting those who pollute and harm users. Therefore, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, consider support for this initiative which calls for something very specific and which will benefit all consumers in Galicia. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u81	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novoa. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego to Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u82	Well, as Mrs. Novoa dedicated seventy percent of her intervention to talk about something that wasn't the matter she was playing, because I'm going to take the license to deny here at this time the absolutely false accusations that she made the President of Galicia absolutely torturely in the debate with Mrs. Pontón. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, BNG is not the one who wants to close the thermals in this country. If there are thermals in this country in a very complicated situation, it's because of their political inaction. BNG has always defended that they have complied with the law, adapted and maintained their jobs, and also that they have received the same treatment that they have received in the state from the native Spanish coal thermal plants. [[Applause]] It was you who allowed, among other things, as they were dedicated to taking pictures of electoral propaganda, that this country was excluded from the profits of the Coal Plan. [[Applause]] Mrs. Novoa, really, if we weren't in September, being you orientated like me, I'd think this initiative is an intrinity, an intrinity or a joke of bad taste. Because, the truth is, you come here, you give three or four explanations of the subject and it seems to forget a matter that is no smaller, which is that you, the People's Party of Galicia and the State, have the fundamental responsibility that Galicia will end up paying the bill of the state's most expensive light. It's a Greek electric fare, but it's the other way around. [[Applause]] Of course, asking for a discount for being a producer country is separatist, but this — I don't know — must be an innovative revolution of yours. Madam Novoa, it will not be the ones we have talked about on this subject, and it will not be in this legislation anymore, but in the previous one, that Greek nationalism warned that this would happen, while you were looking elsewhere. Because you're talking here about the law of 1997 and the law of 2013 as if it were a thing managed by the Holy Spirit. But look: in 1997 he was president of the State Mr Aznar and in 2013 Mr Rajoy, and that I know those gentlemen are and were from the People's Party. And what did you say from Galicia when nationalism warned that those points of the law that you mentioned might have impacted that the Greeks and the Greeks paid for those autonomic supplements? They didn't say anything at all. And that's something BNG not only defended in Congress but also brought initiatives to this parliament asking for a derogation from those points. You voted against, we were called alarmists, everything, well, your usual speech. And now we know in Mr Tahoces' mouth that they have brought a resource of unconstitutionality to those points. I already laugh, because, of course, you say that we are incoherent, that our electricity proposals are absolutely unfounded, and then we have to see how you are the ones who say that your own precepts are unconstitutional. Anyway, you've been looking somewhere else for many years, Mrs. Novoa. That's why it's a tasteful joke that comes here pretending to have no responsibility in this matter. They have that responsibility because at the worst moment of the economic crisis, at the worst moment of the implementation of absolutely austere policies of the People's Party, it was Mr. Rajoy who passed a Royal Order of Budget Stability in 2012. And once again, as with so many other issues, who will pay their cuts, who will pay them? The working class speaks for you in your bill, the small and medium-sized Greek companies in your bill. That's what's gonna happen. So first of all, we don't include it in our amendment, but one thing you should do is have a little humility and apologize here, apologize to the Greeks and to the Greeks for this situation. Because you, before 2018, did not present a single legal remedy, nor a single appeal to the State, nor a single bilateral negotiation route as requested from here, nothing, absolutely nothing did until February-March 2018, when one of these resolutions was known. That decree — as I say — explains that there are numerous judgments that give reason to the electricians. And you come here saying it's extremely topical; that's what it was, too, a long time ago. That's why, Mrs. Novoa, we see the result of the policies of the People's Party. This is going to cost the state a hundred and eleven million, of which Galicia is going to pay thirty-four percent, thirty-eight million, while other communities that don't just produce, like Madrid, what are they going to pay? Well, Madridns and Madridns are going to pay two million euros between them all, although they triple the population in Galicia. That's your reverse Welsh electric tariff model: let's pay the most we've produced; that's your unique tariff concept. Let the Greeks pay more instead of being benefited, will you tell me? If that's their concept of solidarity, that we have the impact of producing, and above all we pay more, will you tell me?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u83	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u84	And I'm done, Mrs. Novoa. We demand — and that we also reflect it in our amendment — that government, which is suppressed by these two points of this legislation, which are the ones that allow this to happen. This warned BNG a long time ago. But I remind you that you also talked about a tax that approved the two-party government, and Mr. Tahoces said that might happen. Sure, what's going on? That at that time there was no decree of 2012 austeric like yours sponsored by such. Don't tell me it's a surprise because it's not at all...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u85	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u86	- That's it. - We include in our amendment that suppression and also that if this progresses, that if the sentence progresses, and we are included in that order, that it is the Spanish State who pays it, and not the working class of Galician.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u87	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u88	See if you defend that government who governs Madrid. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u89	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. Mr Losada Álvarez has the floor by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Novoa, there's a painting of Salvador Dalí in Moma, New York, entitled Persistence of Memory. And I think it's appropriate to talk about memory and the persistence of memory. It's true that the leaders of the People's Party have used us to portable memories. The other day we attended a committee of inquiry at the Congress of Deputies where Mr. Aznar didn't know there was box B in the People's Party — he was the only one, even the judges knew it — and he didn't even know who had been invited to his daughter's wedding in the real place of El Escorial. And I also remember how in this same parliament Mr. Feijóo didn't remember who he was walking with on yachts through the rivers of Galicia, and he didn't remember where he was traveling with that person or who he was engaged in. Then it's good to have memory, Mr. Novoa. [[Applause]] Look: the industrial and energy strategies of the People's Party in the Aznar governments have allowed a process of liberalization and brutal privatization. I know you're going to tell me you started in the last governments of Felipe González. But it's very different for the state to maintain fifty-one percent of the shares of a company that has zero percent. I think it's different. And if we pass from Aznar to Mr. Rajoy, we know exactly what happened, as much as you come here and tell us about Mrs. Rivera's management, which, by the way, can be eco-exist but it's not "ecological," because it's not a yogurt, I mean, it's an ecologicalist. An ideological approach. I know everything that has to do with the termination--it's up to you to produce absolute repellents. Eco-xist, eco-xist!; ecological are yogurt, some, some not. So he spent four minutes talking about the management of 100 days and completely forgot about Mr. Aznar's eight-year management and Mr. Rajoy's seven-year management... because Mrs. Presas said so: the laws of the electrical sector that mounted the scaffolding of this sector in Spain were from the governments of Aznar and Rajoy. They like you or not; tell us the story that they want here about ecology, ecologists and ecologists. They were on the right. And by the way, as they're on the right, that explains that big Spanish electricity has more benefits than big German electricity, having a market that's about half. And if you don't, come here and tell us what you're talking about, because the truth is, your intervention, which was very smooth -- that's quite well -- but at the bottom of it is a real scandal, an uncommunal coat of hair. Why did you vote against this same year in June of a Socialist Group bill asking exactly what you are asking for? Why did you vote against? I'd like to know. Do you want me to tell you? I tell them: they voted against because they now rule the Socialist Party in Madrid. By the way, when Mr. Feijóo solemnly says between insult and insult to the mayor of Vigo at the headquarters of Government of the Council of Galicia, where he has to speak of the results of the Council of the Union... that's where he has to say what he really does not say: the politics of the People's Party and the Government of the Union have changed radically since Mr. Pedro Sánchez ruled in Spain. You can't say something that's fake. [[Applause]] You can't say that what you stood for when Rajoy ruled is what you defend when Pedro Sánchez rules, because it's false. It's fake on the AVE theme, it's fake on the road, and now we also see that it's fake on the electric market. It's fake. Because Mr. Feijóo, who used to lie, unless he had a very bad memory — that could be too! — he should, he should, yes, face many questions in which, of course, he is not giving her as President of the Council of Galicia. Look: you voted against -- and I have here your intervention, Mrs. Novoa -- because they said there were resources in progress. Those resources are still running, aren't they? Are they still running or not? Or did the German Government remove this hypothetical resource of unconstitutionality? Maybe he took it off. If you've removed it, we can go on the political path. Because the political path was the way in which the Socialist Group and the other opposition groups were demanding to solve this problem, which was a problem that really went to the very core of what has to be the energy transition, which is that people who pollute, pay. By the way, both in terms of supply and demand. Who pollutes by producing electricity, has to pay; it's also true — and I've always defended it so — that as consumers, those who are above normal energy consumption patterns, they also have to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u91	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u92	So, Mrs. Novoa, don't come here to talk to us about milongs. I'm telling you with absolute respect. And as for the amendment we tabled, this is a patriotic amendment, not the patriotism of Montoro, that of "which falls Spain, that we will already lift it," or that of Casado, to tell the president of the Commission: "Spain is a disaster." [[Applause]] What you see is that if it's March Spain of the new president of the People's Party at the state level...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u93	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u94	...but rather, in Spain, in an energy transition in the state as a whole, the reasonable thing is that this measure applies to all affected autonomous communities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Casal Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u96	Thank you very much. Good morning. Well, we could define this proposal with four sentences: political filibusterism, convolence with electric oligopolie, incompetence and use of Galicia by party interest, submissions when the Government of the State is of the PP and ariet when state governments are not of the PP. But for me, today's the strongest, which I can't understand, even though we're already used to, is that a president of the Union is blatantly lying in this parliament. I hope that today, since there is no manipulation, the Galician Television Newspaper includes that Feijóo has secretly lied in this parliament. Maybe, they say, well, that's not news anymore, maybe. Mr Feijóo stated explicitly — replying to Mrs Pontón — that one of the problems of rising the electricity tariff is that the costs of transition to competition have been approved by a government of the PSOE, supported by the BNG. Well, that's a lie. The costs of transition to competition have been approved by Royal Decree Law 54/1997. Do you know who ruled in 1997? Yes, indeed, Endesa's advisor. You know who Endesa's advisor is for two hundred thousand euros a year, don't you? Mr. Aznar. Do you know when the transition costs to the competition were eliminated? In 2006, in the Spanish Parliament. And do you know who ruled in 2006? Mr. Zapatero. In fact, they were voted out of the BNG. That's the truth. The rest, lie. Political filibusterism. In January, In Marea presented a non-law proposal on this much better-founded subject, technically and legally. By the way, then I'll explain. And you know you voted for the People's Party? On the contrary. At that time it was not appropriate to protect the Germans from the fee, from the thirty-eight million euros they were going to have to pay, because they were preparing an administrative dispute. Let's hope that the litigation-administrative, which we request and we do not yet have, does not go along with the argument Mrs. Novoa made, because the mistake is quite large at the technical level. And why do I say it's a pretty serious mistake? Because what you say is that it is removed from the annex to Galicia. That is, the order may be fine, but in the annex that removes Galicia; the others, well, the others who pay, but that suppresses Galicia. An argument, the truth, legal and technically quite competent! Instead, they do not go against what is at the heart of order; an order, as I said before, made in convenance with oligopolie. As you will know, the rulings of the Supreme, the laws developed by the People's Party, because also Mrs. Novoa said: the Government of the State charged us thirty-eight million. Of course, he eluded to say: the state government of the People's Party. Well, at the very heart of the matter, which I hope was the administrative dispute there, because, in fact, we amend the technical aspects of this non-law proposal, it is that the European directive — please read — says that the local taxes affecting electricity can be recharged. They also read the definitions of the European directive: electricity supply is transport and distribution, and in no case production. For the order of the January People's Party this year, elucidating the reality of what the European directive says, says that it transfers it carrying exactly the opposite of what the European directive says. Instead of charging for transport and distribution, which is what the directive defines as supply, it loads for production, as opposed entirely to what the directive defines. That's why we're proposing a amendment that goes in that direction, which calls for the removal of these recharges, but as far as they are concerned, because they have nothing to do with the legal support that the People's Party has applied to impose them, which is that electrical supply has nothing to do with production. But let's go further: we also ask you to reform the laws and decrees that have established these taxes, to make it clear that, indeed, they are environmental taxes, which is one of the things that the Supreme Court claimed to fail in favor of electricity, saying that this type of tax was not being used ultimately as environmental taxes to solve environmental problems where there were negative impacts due to electrical production, but rather that they were being applied and used for other things, as if it were a tax, a generalist tax.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u97	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u98	That's why we also propose in our amendment a number of initiatives, so that environmental taxes are ultimately used for environmental uses in the municipalities affected by the negative consequences of electrical production. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Casal. You have the floor by the author group of the non-law proposition to Mrs. Novoa Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u100	Thank you, President. I'm not sure what they're going to do. Well, I'll be surprised if they're going to support this initiative or not. Mrs. Presas, if you support the power stations is to be profiled, go there and tell the workers or the districts of the Bridges and Meirama, tell them you're going to help and they're against the lock of the Absterse. Mrs. Presas, that's getting profiled. [[Applause]] Look, Mrs. Presas and Mr. Losada: you have ruled here, and you have supported, Mrs. Presas, the Government of the State in Madrid, and a law on the 1997 electricity sector, Mr. Aznar's Government, and 2013, Mr. Rajoy's Government, what have you done these years to change something about the electricity sector? I tell them what they did: fill in the debt sector, which now consumers have paid for more than 20 years, Mrs Presas. You and the Socialist Party. They didn't touch anything. In the law of 1997 these supplements already appeared, what did you do? We're in 2018, and nothing, Mrs. Presas. As for the Greek fare, I, really, is that it's a mantra that's already boring, nobody buys it from him. The president told you this morning, Mr. Tahoces, I, we discuss it, experts in the committee we hear, that it doesn't matter. They don't want another bad business for Galicia, Your Honor. No, the Greeks don't buy him that speech. Mr. Losada, in fact, is that, for memory and memory speaking, today we are not the most appropriate ones to speak of memory, because for lack of memory the Lady Minister of Justice, who didn't remember her meals with Mr. Villarejo Three: one, to criticize a companion, to criticize a fellow minister now; another, to say that she prefers to work with women, "the most feminist government in history." [[Applause]] Please, Mr. Losada! For your memory! [[Protests.]] Look, Mr. Losada, there's no memory again. I tell you the same thing: what have they done to change the law in the electricity sector? Yes, they did, when the law of the electricity sector was processed, they amended. Now I'm going to tell Mrs. Presas: Do you know what they have amended? Two amendments that said territorial supplements were mandatory, mandatory! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That is, this alone, this which we are debating here today, ladies and gentlemen, did not apply only to the year 2013, which could be a restraint measure that Mr. Rajoy's Government did in 2012 for the hole there was, is that socialist gentlemen wanted these supplements to be compulsory forever, sir, for everyone and forever. [[Applause]] I mean, today we wouldn't be claiming that if I took off a supplement from the year 2012, we would be claiming from 2013, from 2014, from 2015 and 2016. How much would it be, Mr. Losada? Well, then by memory, watch out! [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You guys!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u101	Please position yourself on the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u102	Look, Mr. En Marea, it's about discussing energy with you... your proposals consist -- I've told you many times -- in nationalizing electricity. Read, read the press, what your group is asking you to do: nationalize the electricity. The hydroelectric power stations, of course, shut down the power stations. Gas can't even intervene in the energy transition, Reganous out! Mr. Casal, we don't like these ideas at all. With us this way it won't come to any agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u103	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u104	Of course, I can't compare myself to you who teaches me lessons. You do, but it gives every day. Now, jurist too, engineer, talk about how to fit the power... but now he's a jurist too! As for the amendments, Mr. President, we do not accept them. And I repeat, this is a simple proposal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u105	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u106	...which affects Galicia. Because here you, gentlemen of the BNG, lords of the Socialist Party or gentlemen of En Marea, what interests you?, what do you exclude Galicia? What are they really interested in? To stand against what we propose! No, no, gentlemen, it was a very simple proposition, that you, if you want, approve it and will be on the side of consumers, that they won't have... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u108	...or we'll try not to have them to pay more energy than they do, of course... or suffer an impact that causes electricity and that they have to pay for it by the Greek consumers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u109	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u110	For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u111	Let's move on to the next initiative. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr José Manuel Lago Peñas and two other Members, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the establishment of a pension revaluation mechanism guaranteeing, at least, the maintenance of its purchasing power
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u112	This initiative has been presented with two amendments, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u113	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u114	Ten years ago Lehman Brothers fell, and it seems that the world was dwindling and history was accelerating. The system then suffered one of its most virulent crises, worsened in Europe with the eurozone crisis in 2010 and jumped its seams everywhere: brutal increase in unemployment, evictions of housing, also of pensioners — even recently—has been evicted, fall in gross domestic product, brutal impoverishment of the working class, reduction in self-perceived as a middle class. And today, ten years later, that 15M idea - no, it's too month - the end of wages is still real, in this case it's too month after the end of the pension. The crisis. and especially the policies of the dictatorship of austerity, caused a brutal deepening of inequalities. Here, in our country, there has increased the difference between those who earn the most and those who earn the least; it has increased the difference between wage income and capital income in favour of them; the percentage of wages in national wealth has been reduced to unsuspected levels; governments have ultimately put themselves to the service of the financial power, they have paid millions of ransoms to the bank, and they have changed labour regulations in favour of the capital. There was a clear and terrible guideline: lowering public spending and the welfare state to allow private sector expansion, as in pension plans. And in that public spending, social benefits are a fundamental element; they must be attacked by the dictatorship of neoliberalism. So the evidence of the "Don't Represent Us" shook, that yes, the political scenario. But this scenario we repeated: it's not over yet. Why? Because now, four years after macroeconomic growth, we were told that the crisis had ended, right? The social struggle continues, and society continues to mobilize because, even if GDP had been recovered, even if we had more wealth than before the crisis, we don't live better; and, of course, pensioners don't live better. Moreover, the very lack of translation of GDP growth in wages and pensions compromises the maintenance of growth. And more in our country, right, than our country's pensions account for a quarter of the domestic demand. So, just like the working class and generally pensioners don't live better, but on the contrary, they suffered the fall of their purchasing power. For example, a year ago — shortly before pensioners received that ridiculous letter, that letter that many burned, selling them that supposed pensioner — it turns out that the retired and retired Welsh people stopped entering an average of 13 euros a month for the IPC. This September too, by the way, they had to face this coast of September, which is already becoming harder than the coast of January. The pensioners have been cutting for years. In 2011 the conditions for access to pensions were tightened. Since 2012 gross cuts have also affected them. But in 2013 they suffer a terrible blowback, because if they were to advance the application of the sustainability factor, that penalization of the increase in life expectancy, by 2019. The updating of pensions according to the IPC was eliminated and the famous revaloration factor — opaque and arbitrary — of what we have already discussed in this House — was introduced, which meant a brutal cut in the initial pension in relation to the last salary and in practice the freezing of pensions. This was lived by 2017, lived by when pensioners had lost almost 2 points of purchasing power. And it was a decision contrary — we repeat — to the Constitution itself, where is the right to adequate and up-to-date pensions left? This morning the president spoke of the Spanish nation, filled his mouth and defended that Spanish nation, but what is the norm? Because we understand they are patriots, yes, of 155—if so—but of article 50 of the Constitution, here they are selling the lands of their homeland. And maintaining this system — the system that the People's Party wanted to apply in 2013 — meant that in 20 years pensions would be reduced by 40% in real terms. And this doesn't say in Marea, they recognize institutions like the Banco de España or the OECD. In addition, that so-called sustainability factor would add a loss of purchasing power in every five-percent decade. So, if we were to maintain that system, in the 2050, we'd find that the pensions of that year would be practically the same as the year we're in, practically the same despite the rise in prices. That's why we propose that it be once armored that the pension rise, the pension update, be linked to the IPC, to the actual price rise. All these social cuts were also accompanied by cuts in civil rights, for what, to try to stem the protest. But it has not been achieved and it cannot be achieved now either, because pensioners continue to claim the need for decent lives. Let's remember the infamous charges in Congress over the past few days, and use them again to condemn them. In our country, in Galicia, the importance of pensions is indisputable, because we speak of more than 670,000 people who will become 1 million before 2050. We're already talking about nearly 25% of the population of Greece; we're talking about over 760,000 benefits; we're talking about a quarter of the domestic demand, of fundamental importance to our economy. We're talking about that 1 out of every 3 municipalities like mine has in social benefits the main source of income. Clearly this is a challenge, no one denies the challenge of aging. Why? Galicia only has 1.29 pensioners despite job improvement — they wrote the papers. But this challenge, we say, can be overcome by social justice or economics, by condemning pensioners to poverty. And that's what the PP chose with the so-called sustainability factor. The importance of pensioners in our country is also quantified that 32.12% of these Greek homes we refer to have social benefits as the only source of income. Only source of income. People's pensions, in most cases, greater than, after working hard all their lives, they did -- let's talk about it -- during the crisis as an economic mattress, preventing this brutal social crisis from getting even bigger. And he's still doing it, and this can be quantified. The pensioners, during the crisis, raised 25% of their spending in Galicia to help families with no incomes. And, looking at the data, they did it not only at the cost of their pension, but also at the cost of their savings, because they supported even more than they entered for pensions. Instead of recognizing these people the work they've done as economic mattresses, the central government applies brute cuts to them, when what we had to do as a society is an homage in the form of lives worthy of these people. A decent government, of course, would owe these people a debt. And all this -- let's remember -- this economic mattress -- was made by the German pensioners with the lowest pensions in the state. Another headline, since we're talking about headlines today, so it's not to be said that this just says about En Marea: "Galiza is autonomy, first, with more retirement pensions under the minimum wage. 56% of the people in Greece are below the minimum inter-professional wage. What rises, in the case of women, is more than 80% because, yes, we still have worse women; with precarious working lives or with work lives in many non-existent cases, pensions are still more miserable. Thus, the revaluation of pensions according to the real IPC, according to the cost of living, is a battle of the Greek movement in defense of pensions — today we have a representation and we take advantage of it — of combative trade unionism, of all pensioners who leave our towns and cities every week. And of all those who are mobilized, who were also last week in that state mobilization in Madrid, and they were also in charge of Congress, in a week when there are also IGC calls in defence of pensions and in which there is also a European Day called by Lidia Senra this weekend. We are in this debate because it is essential to shield the purchasing power of pensions. It's as basic as not condemning poverty to most of this country. We speak — we repeat — of 25% of the population. Average pension: EUR 901, compared to the state average of EUR 1,080, 62% at the poverty threshold. We're also talking about inequality between pensioners in the interior and pensioners in the Atlantic Galicia. The current legal system, in fact — in theory — already envisages the revaluation of pensions. That Constitution which both defends President Feijóo has been repealed by the way of events in these years. Where is this Article 50?, this pension update?, is this economic sufficient for the reforms they implemented in 2013? Yes, the Constitution does not use it either for the right of housing, but rather they appeal to it to seize people like Catalan or Greek. That's why we're asking to link the revaluation of pensions to the IPC, we think that's fair. And it's just that not only does En Marea ask, he asks for personalities with so much prestige — including these benches — as the president of the Circle Economic Foundation. He literally says, "to link pension revaluation to the evolution of the IPC is a fair objective. There are few countries of our level where the revaluation of pensions is not linked in some way to the evolution of prices." And that's what we're talking about is that the revaluation of pensions according to real CPI is the only way that older people can keep their incomes, they can keep a decent life. That's why, because it's possible to re-evaluate pensions according to the IPC always, because public pension systems are sustainable, because the percentage of GDP spent by the Spanish State on pensions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u115	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u116	...it is even below the European average, we ask this Parliament to take a decision in favour of revaluing pensions by law according to real price developments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u117	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u118	Good morning. We greet the people who accompany us from the rostrum and continue to claim decent pensions in Galicia, they continue to mobilize in Galicia. And I also take advantage of sending a greeting to the group of pensioners at the IGC, who today will also go out on the street claiming decent and guaranteed public pensions. Because in Galicia there are still thousands of pensioners who perceive that measures are not being put in place that help to improve the living conditions of people who, after a lifetime of work, receive pensions with accounts that do not allow them to meet their basic needs, which do not, of course, allow them to live a life in the conditions they should. We shall vote in favour of this initiative which is being presented today in Marea because we believe that it is necessary to shield the revalorisation according to the IPC. We also consider that it is not enough, and we have tabled an amendment in which we are demanding that labour and pension reforms should also be repealed, essentially from 2011 to 2012, and that the adoption of a new labour and social legislation must be carried out which sets back lost rights as a result of successive labour reforms, which favours new rights and regulations that improve living and working conditions and strengthen the working class in front of capital, because pensions need to be revalued. But in Galicia, for example, we have the second lowest pensions in the state, and according to the IGE, the July data of this year 2008, half of the pensions in Galicia do not reach 677 euros. According to Gestha's data, which are the Technicians of Fairy, 39.2% of Galician pensions are below the poverty line, i.e. 8,200 euros a year; i.e. 300,000 pensioners in Galicia have to get fixed at 8,200 euros a year. Of these, most are women, for having a very unstable working life, for giving up working life to care for children, for caring for older children, for having a part-time job life... and then revaluing poverty is no use. If we're in a context of labour reforms that have led to a situation in which a whole series of elements have been introduced, in which they have expanded retirement age, they have expanded the amount to 25 years old, they have introduced a whole series of reforms, we're in a precarious labour market, what's going to do is that all people who come behind them get to a retirement that's going to be so messy that they're going to re-evaluate that they're going to have misery, so you have to re-evaluate the current one, but you have to change the conditions for future pensions not to be pensions of misery. And all those measures were especially petty in Galicia. First, because we have the lowest pensions in the state. A percentage of pensioners, in relation to our population, much higher, which affects a larger part of our population. Pensions that are the only income in many of our families; that is, pensions are the only livelihood of many of our families. And also because it adds to other particularly damaging measures, which affect our pensioners very much, and which are tremendously unfair, such as drug coke, residences, IV rise, water, light, fuel. We have a major impoverishment of our pensioners and pensioners. 60%, as I said before, are below the poverty line because the average of our pensions is between 15% and 20% under the state average. The problem is that in addition to that gap, it only increases, with which that measure is necessary — we insist — but it is not enough. Besides, it brutally affects women. So, 1 in 4 women over 65 is below the poverty line. The measures that were increased to women who received minimum supplements for not reaching that minimum count, have been reduced by the amount of that supplement, with which those measures that were introduced to them have not arrived because the minimum plugins have been reduced. With which, we are continually in that perverse game, in which it seems that the living conditions of pensioners are improving when, in fact, they are practically frangles. That is why we believe that the initiative presented in Marea is positive, we are voting in favour of it, but we believe that it is not enough. And you can't tell us that in this context the conditions are not given and that we have to go...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u119	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u120	...requesting a little bit. We believe that the time comes when you can't be constantly asking for almost an apology for demanding improvements for the working class. It's time for the working class, who endured when we were asked to tighten our belt because we had to hold on, it's also time for those measures to reach the working class...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u121	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u122	...and we have to demand an improvement in the labour market because the future of pensions depends on the number of taxpayers and the quality of their wages, and policies for promoting decent employment and decent wages are fundamental for pensions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u123	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u124	...of the immediate future, of what comes, be decent pensions. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u125	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo has the floor by the Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u126	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and good morning also to the guest pensioners in this German Parliament. Before starting my intervention itself...—I see that Mr. Balsairo is not here, but, referring to the words he devoted yesterday to my person, I wanted to tell him, firstly, that when I go up to this stage I try to bring my data, but that at no time have I ever been disrespectful to either of the Members or of the Members of this House in Greece. So when he talks about the loss of "rumbo" — and I know it goes for my last name — I'll tell him that from my last name I'm absolutely proud of never losing that direction. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Both he and I — I think I remember — also Mrs Prado del Río said that when I came out here, I lied — or I lied yesterday — and that there were not 200 missing people in the municipal pattern of the Cerdedo-Cotobade Town Hall. By the way, I also spoke of Cercedo-Cotobade, but it is that I feel closer to Cerceda than to Sardinia and, therefore, I may be mistaken, as any one of those who can get out here. Look, the news says: The 200 missing from the fusion between Sardinia and Cotobade. The municipality had to bring down two hundred neighbors after detecting INE irregularities in the pattern. And, if I'm not mistaken, this one that appears here is precisely Mr. Balsairo, isn't it? And I'll tell you more. In Commission 1a: The Galician Board has argued that it does not have competence to pronounce or investigate irregularities detected in the Cerdedo-Cotobade census, whose municipal government was obliged to bring down 200 persons who were in the standard without being resident in the municipality. [[Pontevedra]] This Wednesday, the Director General of Local Administration Marta Fernández Tapias in Commission 1a, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior has been expressed. These are data, and therefore this is the last time, because I'm not going to allow anyone to tell me I'm lying.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u127	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u128	He's here, then...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u129	Quiet...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u130	When I want to, then I hear everything you have to tell me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u131	Quiet. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, please, go to the question. Quiet, everybody! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u132	Finally, don't tell me about movies, about...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u133	Quiet, everybody. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u134	Lola, don't torment me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u135	Everyone's quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u136	And I recommend...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u137	Excuse me, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, excuse me for a second. Please be quiet. You are a Member in the use of the word, silence to all. Everyone, everyone... it's normal to play a joke when you do an intervention and make... finally, alluding to other kinds of matters. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You've been here for three minutes, I'm asking you to get on with it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u138	All right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u139	Quiet. Listen to everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u140	I ask absolutely the same of all Members and Members...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u141	Everybody. Yes, everyone. Everyone does the same thing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u142	...come from the bench coming.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u143	Everyone does the same thing. It's normal to do it for a few seconds. Three minutes, five, I think they're abundant. [[Applause]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u144	I repeat again that public pensions for men and women in this country are one of the great works of the PSOE and of the most proud of us. [[Applause]] Moreover, we are going to support this initiative because our stance has not changed at all from what we stand for, both in the interpellation and in the motion presented by us in the first quarter of this year, and from what other political groups have defended by voting in favour of it. I recall that Article 50 of the Constitution is the legal framework for ensuring adequate and periodically updated pensions. I repeat once again that the Toledo Pact, which was established in 1995, was adopted by practically all political groups, and I will repeat that with the approval of the People's Party. With the creation of this Toledo framework, there was a mechanism for defending the social security system; that was a forum for debate and agreement within a context of dialogue and consensus; to exclude the party struggle, in order to ensure its effectiveness and sustainability, and to permanently adapt the system of protection to the reality it acts on. But the People's Party, when it loses its elections, doesn't understand and doesn't remember what it voted for in 1995 and for this Toledo Pact to be created, because it doesn't assume that it has changed a government democratically. Therefore, who now rules is Mr. Pedro Sánchez and not Mr. Mariano Rajoy. [[Applause]] Among the recommendations of the Toledo Pact, which were 21, I will only remind you of some: separating and clarifying sources of funding; maintaining the purchasing power of pensions; creating the Social Security Reserve Fund and strengthening the principle of contribution as a basic element for the preservation of the financial balance of the system. Recommendation that, I insist, voted favourably...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u145	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u146	...the People's Party at that time. As time becomes small, I will remember that the People's Party always gives priority to economic profitability in the face of social profitability, and conceives public pensions as a expense, and never as a right. You always propose...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u147	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u148	...reducing expenses to rebalance pensions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u149	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u150	I won't remind you of the entire contribution of the People's Party, because you've already been remembered here by the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u151	Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u152	...my predecessors, but there's a royal decree of pharmaceutical co-op, the elimination of continuous drugs from the social security catalogue...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u153	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u154	...and finally Law 23/2013.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u155	Thank you very much, it's no longer in the use of the word. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]] You're not in the use of the word. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, thank you very much. [[Applause]] You have the floor by the People's Group, Mr. Tellado Filgueira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u156	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. What is clear is that the Socialist Party wants to talk about anything, even the mayor accused of Cerceda, less about pensions. The truth is, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, you have a very different speech today than you had in this same gallery four months ago. We see that the speech has changed. [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]] To frame the debate on pensions, I have to say that the People's Party is at exactly the same point today as the last time we discussed this issue in Parliament. What did we say then? We said that we would work in a responsible way for a sustainable system over time; that the best way to work for pensions is to bet on economic growth and job creation; that a good complement to pensions was to reduce the tax pressure of pensioners whose wages were lower, and we made it, by modifying that minimum exemption from the IRPF from EUR 12,600 to EUR 17,000 annually; and that any reform of the system had to go through the Toledo Pact. Let's say it and follow it by saying it. What about the Socialist Party? That the Socialist Party's speech depends. It depends on whether you're in the opposition; it depends on whether you're in the government; and today we see the Socialist Party with a very different speech. Talking about politics four months ago might seem like talking about prehistory today, but I think it's best to remember the same thing we said. Four months ago the People's Party told them to approve the state's general budgets; I told them here from this rostrum. They approved a budget that allowed the pension to be raised by 3% to half a million Greeks. What did you guys do? On the contrary. To vote against those budgets that went up to half a million Greeks. That remains in the memory of the Socialist Party. Four months ago, you refused that climb because you were asked to go up less. Remember, you asked for less. You'd settle for something more than 1%. We revalued 3% and you voted against it. Today you apply precisely those PP budgets, after saying they were little less than the worst that could happen to this country. Yesterday, the great Wyoming—I make appointments so that I won't be charged with what the President of the Government is accused of—says the Government of Sánchez was like Game of Thrones, that when one started to know the names of the protagonists, Dad!, if they were charged, that is what can happen to us today when we see the third minister resign in the last three months. [[Murmurs.]] I think it would be much better if they called elections. [[Murmurs.]] I have something to tell the lords of the side of the Socialist Party of Galicia. I don't think it's random that Pedro Sánchez has appointed an anesthetist as government delegate in Galicia, it's not random! Because he actually got what Pedro Sánchez asked him to do, which was to anesthetize the PSdeG-PSOE bench. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't really know if it's because of the noise of the presidential helicopter's quotes, but the truth is, I see the Socialist Party very puzzled. [[Applause]] I don't know if the noise of the helicopter's quotes doesn't listen, or if it's because they haven't been able to appoint any PSdEG-PSOE representative within that government; not even on the rocks, when ministers resign, they can appoint a German minister. I think today or tomorrow they have the chance to try again, and we'll see the weight of PSdEG-PSOE in the whole country. I'm an anesthetized PSdEG-PSOE, completely anesthetized. They shut their mouths when the Government of Sánchez tried to delay the AVE to Galicia, and the ineffable Mr. Fernández Leicega went there to take a picture of himself with Minister Abalos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u157	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u158	They shut their mouths when the government of Sánchez tried to kill us 198 million Euros from the VAT, shut their mouths. They shut their mouths when the government of Sánchez jeopardized the contracts of Saudi Arabian crows, which are a threat to the future naval...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u159	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u160	...and now they also shut up, anesthetized, when the government of Sanchez tells them, "Don't move me from the palace of Meirás." You're an anesthetized PSOE, an anesthetized PSdeG-PSOE. A bewildered game, a very bewildered game. [[Applause]] I'll make them numbers. Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo, you complained that you wouldn't let her talk...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u161	Silence! Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u162	Listen to me, please. Listen to me so I can reason. The other day, Mr. Gonzalo Caballero said that the Vigo People's Party was a marginal party because they have seven concellers in a corporation of twenty-seven. I have to tell you that here you have fourteen in a corporation of seventy-five, which here represents 17% of the vote and we in Vigo 20%. So tell that economic teacher that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u163	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u164	...20 is more than 17 and that in Vigo we are the second force, proud! but here you are the third. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u165	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u166	About pensions. Look, the Socialist Party... No, if I've spoken before... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u167	Finish, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u168	The Socialist Party was the only party in Spain to freeze pensions, the only party! Those five million unemployed you've generated...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u169	Mr. Tellado. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u170	...a breakdown for the system in reducing the number of contributors. I want to congratulate you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u171	Silence, silence, I said! Quiet, please! [[Interruptions.]] There's a deputy speaking. [[Murmurs.]] Silence! You're not in the use of the word. Or I'll have to start calling the order. Finish, Mr. Tellado. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u172	I understand nervousness, because I was going to tell them about Carlos Solchaga and I understand they don't want...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u173	Mr. Tellado, stop.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u174	Mr. Solchaga said or another day: Pensioners are not right, they haven't paid half of what they perceive...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u175	Mr. Tellado, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u176	...You can't revalue pensions with the IPC. But what do we have to pay attention to? Look, I wanted to, Mr. President, to finish doing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u177	No, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u178	...one...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u180	Mrs. Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u181	Silence! Mr. Tellado, you are no longer in the use of the word. Quiet, please! [[Applause]] At the end of the matter, we give the floor to those who ask for it. You have the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u182	Yes, the People's Party has the courage to accuse the other group of all the less of the subject, and you, Mr. Tellado, who has the record in that sense. And that's what he missed today some of his hits. You said we're at the same point as in last spring's debate. Because his point in that debate was to vote against the opposition's proposals to revalue pensions according to the IPC. In Marea you've been introduced to this Parliament, I can't talk right now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u183	Quiet, please! Shut up, everyone! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u184	If the PP is at the same point, at that time he voted, for example, against a proposal for En Marea law that asked precisely to recover the revaluation of pensions according to the IPC. If you are at the same point, I understand that you will vote against this initiative. What I don't understand is that you make fun of the pensioners in our country, not even the last minute of them. Yeah, I used it out of time, but it doesn't count. [[Applause]] As for the amendments, we do not accept the amendment of the PSOE. We thank you for your support for this non-law proposal, but we do not accept it because we believe that this chamber should be explicitly speaking in favour of the revaloration of pensions according to the IPC, and you do not have to wait for an agreement in the Toledo Pact or not. We do not exclude seeking a possibility of transaction, we have actually reached agreements here also with regard to the Toledo Pact, in which it also had to do with eliminating the excessive criminalization of people with long careers of contributions. However, we thank that vote in favour. And then we also accept the BNG proposal because, in fact, the low content of the Greek pensions depends mainly on these low wages, that precarious work, which is a bad endemic in our country, and, of course, we defend the derogation from the counter-reforms of the labour market which so much suffering brought to the working class. And also, this fundamental increase in the minimum inter-professional wage up to EUR 1,000, which will have a direct effect on the increase in the collection by contributions. The pension system problem is not expenditure, it's income, how 30% of the contribution income was reduced, so it takes a new framework that improves the quality of our employment. We therefore appreciate the support of the opposition groups, and I warn you, gentlemen of the People's Party, that the pensioners mobilized made a warning and made a warning: they did not vote on those who block the actual CPI pension update, according to the real price rise. You'll see. They turned this into a bipartisan debate, and bipartisanism is over, Mr. Tellado. The PP's electoral ground is going to sink under their feet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Leicega asked for the floor. Why do you want the use of the word?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u186	To ask Mr. Tellado to delete references to an institution that is not in the debate. I believe that the reference he made to the Government is not only unfair, but also difficult to generalize. What would we say about the case of Mr Fernández de Mesa, for example?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u187	Silence! I think it wasn't, in any case, offensive, or I didn't understand it as offensive. The one who has to interpret, fortunately or unfortunately, is the one who is in the presidency, and I did not understand it as an offensive. So I guess if it's the other way around, he retires. No, you don't have to... No, no. We continue with the next initiative. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in relation to the agreements signed by the Ministry of Development and Audasa in the years 2011 and 2013, the deficiencies of the service provided by the concessionary company of AP-9 and the works of expansion of the bridge of Rande
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u188	This initiative was amended by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the People's Parliamentary Group and the En Marea Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u189	Mr Bará Torres has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u190	Good morning. We're going to talk about AP-9 and we see the obligation to bring, once again, a non-law proposition because it follows the policy, follows the abuses, follows the Central Government's favor — this does not change — and also follows the complicity of the Galician Union. And we'll bring AP-9 back here as often as it takes until we achieve the goal of a free highway free of abusive sins. We did not include in the proposal according to the transfer because, firstly, it is the subject of another debate and has already been approved here repeatedly the request, through a bill, of the Galicia transfer of the highway and also of the rescue, by the very first version. We do not bring here the debate of the transfer, but if we want to denounce the fashion of the People's Party, which has systematically vetoed, from the Central Government and from the Bureau of Congress, the admission to the procedure of the laws passed by the German Parliament up to three times; in the Parliament of the State, it boycotted all attempts to obtain the transfer, and now, to laugh at it, it has the indecency to propose that it be through the Joint Transfer Commission between the State and the Union. And we wondered what they've been doing so far, why haven't they done this in all these years? Did it happen now, was it an idea now that the government of the state changed? [[Applause]] They're not ashamed! You, who in ten years have not achieved a single transfer, now come to teach how to do things. Fuck off in Havana! I don't know if this is against decoration, but it's a popular expression.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u191	It's not very appropriate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u192	Yeah, order a trick in Havana! If you prefer the president. Nor is this debate the speculative sale operation of AP-9 to foreign investment funds, which, as we see these days, want to appropriate the lucrative business of sanding thousands of Galicians and Greeks by cashing every day of EUR 380,000, an operation which is now suspended by the trial temporarily but which is going to be consumed on upcoming dates. And it's going to be consumed with the passivity and complicity of the board, which says nothing, although it's at stake here too, the participation of Galicia through Abanca in that concession. Of course, what also demonstrates this debate on speculative sales is the figures that are handled for the sale of AP-9 and the value that, according to the concessionaire, has that concession. The proposal we bring here today has to do with the announcement made by the Ministry of Development — an informal announcement — to apply this year two new price increases, derived from the agreements signed with the governments of the Socialist Party and the People's Party in 2011 and 2013. By the way, we would like to remind you of the legal impossibility of applying the 1% increase this year because the sixth clause of the 2011 Convention clearly states that it has to be applied the following year. We want it not to apply this year or the next one, but of course this year cannot be done. We want to go further in this debate on the rise of tariffs, and we want to denounce the agreements signed and demand their review, to contain clearly abusive conditions and that clearly favour the interests of the concessionaire. This can be done, and it has already been done by the Government of the People's Party with the 2006 Convention, in which it speaks in a report by the Ministry of Development of an unfair enrichment of the concessionaire. You can do the review of the agreements. And to this end, we also want to ask the Socialist Party about a specific issue which they have repeatedly defended in this House, which is whether they will continue to propose that the State take charge of the increase in the rates, because until now in all the debates we have had on this issue, the PSOE said that the State should take charge of the increase in the rates. They will defend this position in front of the Central Government, for example, to apply it already in the case of the peax between Roundola and Vigo. And they will continue to defend also the recovery of the 2,000 million euros that have ceased to invest in the last governments of the People's Party and that they are clearly a debt to Galicia that this pendant to pay off. We already know that the Central Government is in a hurry to announce investments in Valencia or to pay off its debt to Catalonia. Yesterday a figure of 1,456 million investments in Catalonia was announced, as well as applying to that debt in the case of Galicia. Our proposal, however, goes beyond the issue of review of the conventions. We also propose a global audit of the deficiencies in the service provided by the dealership and the works of extension of the Rande bridge; works of the Rande bridge over which there are many doubts about its real cost, which is under suspicion, and we in this sense talk about a platoon in the works of Rande enlargement. Works, by the way, that are not yet finished at this point. Those on the Rande Bridge are not finished and they are not finished either in what has to do with the new careers of enlargement, and that suffers - we know it well - the proximity, for example, of Chapela or of Trasmannó, who still have unmet promises regarding improvements derived from these works. And they're not finished either because we see every day, when we pass through the Rande Bridge, how the lateral highways are occupied with machinery that prevents their use, for example, in the case of an accident, which poses a serious risk to the people who use these external lanes. We will talk about this tomorrow at Commission 2nd, but we would also like to make it clear today. Of course, with regard to all these pending works, a demonstration has been convened on the next Saturday by the neighbouring associations of Chapela and Teis, who claim that the Ministry of Development fulfils the commitments in respect of these works and also of the anti-fraud screens, or of the urban transformation of the last road path to Vigo, which were initiatives and proposals adopted unanimously in this Parliament and which are not met, and this we have to find it to the Government of the Socialist Party, but above all to the Government of the People's Party, who has been ruling in the last year and has not complied with these agreements. We also demand — something that has never been done — an information and sanctioning file to the concessionaire for the repeated retentions and locks. It was not ruled by the People's Party over all these years, which has acted since the Unity of Galicia with absolute goodwill and permissivity. Something as basic as protocols that establish how to act in the event of seizures and retentions was not approved, by means of measures such as lifting barriers. We want to denounce here, once again, that there is no right for a blockade to become a robbery, which is what's happening on the highway; that is to say that users, in addition to suffering hourly retentions, have to pay the fee just as if the highway worked normally. And finally, in this proposal, we also ask for the study of forms of compensation for the inappropriate provision of the service during Rande's works, with the reduction of careers, for example, in the days when there were jams. What we propose is something as simple as applying a deduction in the calculation of compensation that must pay the State derived from those agreements to which I referred, which had to do with the freeness of the Morration and the return trip between Pontevedra and Vigo. If the service is not provided in normal conditions, the logic is that the State does not pay those compensations. We don't understand how this has never been done. We propose that this agreement be approved. In conclusion, we just learned, as we know all these years, that Audasa is entering more than 140 million euros a year, of which around 44 million euros are profits after taxes. AP-9 is a real money making machine; it's a multi-million-dollar business, a very tasty business for those international Voitre investment funds that are fighting now for control of Itinere, and it's time to change the script. It's time for the governments of Galicia and the state to take sides with the people, the people on the highway, the people on the side of Galicia. It's time to stop rewarding Audasa, it's time to penalize her, demand the provision of a service in condition and end abuse, first step to end the scam and the spousal of AP-9. Because the highway wasn't a knife, it was a real armed robbery!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u193	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. You have the floor by the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Bará, at the plenary session of this Parliament on 10 July this year, i.e. two and a half months ago, we unanimously adopted a proposal for an organic law which I remind you that in point 1, on the transfer of competence to the Autonomous Community of Galicia, paragraph (d) literally, "the amendments affecting the economic-financial scheme of the concession, in particular as regards the establishment, care and abolition of fees and fees, as well as the application of discount programmes, etc., are within the competence of the Autonomous Community." And in Article 2 on the transfer of services, there is a joint commission of transfers of the United States to Galicia, as is done with all transfers in any field. So it seems reasonable that, if two and a half months ago we were able to reach a unanimous agreement, we kept within that agreement as far as everything related to AP-9 is concerned. In the text that you propose, in paragraph 1, that this Parliamentary Group has adopted, you state that you review and cancel the agreements signed by the Ministry of Development and Audasa of 2011-2013 for setting unfair and clearly favourable clauses to the interests of the concessionaire. If I may, and without any courage to correct anyone, if the cancellation is requested, why ask for the review? We're asking for the cancellation directly. It doesn't make sense to review when what we want to do is cancel. So we have to call for a direct cancellation. It doesn't make sense to waste time and say we're going to review to end up canceling that concession. Therefore, this parliamentary group has proposed, as you know, an amendment that we understand that, respecting the text and the spirit of the agreement reached unanimously — as I said two and a half months ago — in this Parliament, "I say that the Government of Spain has raised its reservations — and I agree with you, the reservations were all of the People's Party, first because it had parliamentary commitments, and then because it turns out that AP-9 had to reach near Lisbon because it was an international route; it was a really picturesque thing the argument that was made later, because it was compromising the budgets, etc. — that the proper managements are carried out with the object of achieving, in the short term possible, the transfer to the AP-9 Autonomous Community, in accordance with the law adopted unanimously in this Parliament, and while making the necessary actions to reduce its citizens' rights, including, in this sense, those proposals for amending the clauses currently in force with concessionaria. So we understand that this proposal to amend the first point of its proposal does not comply strictly with what we have to do with the procedure. I honestly believe that a Parliament should not urge any Government to do something, in principle, contrary to the rules. A concession cannot be cancelled from a pen, there is an established procedure. And the picturesque thing is, too, that you know perfectly well that there is a procedure to rescue, retract, cancel, leave without effect, use the term you want, a public concession, and so that's the procedure that must be followed, not that Parliament urges a government to cancel a concession and therefore commit an act clearly... or, at least, with many faces to be fraudulent. As for the rest of your non-law proposition, we can assume it perfectly. There would be a nuance, with respect to the writing of what they put in point 3, which goes on the same argumentative line as in point one, because you say: the opening of informative and sanctioning files. Almost certainly Audasa deserves sanctions for everything you just reported, which, indeed, is what happens almost always, especially in the summer, one weekend yes and another too. But from the information files, yes, sanctioners, and as a result of the information file, which appears to be so, it follows that the concessionaire is not acting properly. Frankly, I miss something in your proposal not of law but we decided not to add it, more than anything because it is a socio-political consideration, and it is that they should actually address the People's Party in Galicia so that it will step up, in the manner it considers appropriate, its persuasion about the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party in the Congress of Deputies and vote in favour of the adoption of this bill as approved by this Parliament two and a half months ago. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez. Mr Sánchez García has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u196	This morning he gave a recital to the People's Party when he spoke of lack of memory of the opposition. In matters of memory it would be good to bring here that great example of Mr. Feijóo's memory, when he said, "I only know there was snow." I didn't know if I was in the peaks of Europe or Andorra. That's a good example of memory! Mr Tellado also said, in such a way as not to deal honestly with the debates, which is to make noise and divert attention to the guilt of the Socialist Party or other groups in the past, especially the Socialist Party. In this intervention it will happen again because no one wants to talk about the fundamental within the People's Party, and the fundamental thing — I want to remember — is that there is an infrastructure that goes through Galicia from above, which has no potential competence, which has been granted from a Government which should defend the general interest, which produces this company, which is supported by vacuum funds, by banks and large entrepreneurs, 1 out of every 2 euros of benefit; 1 out of every 3 after taxes. Only that fact speaks of who the governments that made these decisions have worked for us in bringing us to this reality. This is corruption and severe, deep, like corruption of the privatization of Endesa, like corruption of the electrics etc. This is corruption and serious, because this is a fact. Because that speech when Mr. Aznar privatized AP-9, after being rescued with public money, might be for better management of the highway. Just as he was general director when he was public, he continued to be general director until 2017. Therefore, managers have not changed. And that gentleman was a friend of Mariano Rajoy, a friend of the Casino de Pontevedra de Mariano Rajoy. In that board of directors was also sitting Mr. Bárcenas, and that tells us many of the things that we have to bear, every day, an armed robbery by representatives of the institutions that should defend the general interest. From there we can discuss the details. Mr. Tellado also said that the Socialist Party shut up, and the Socialist Party has a role in consolidating Audasa's privileges. Yes, it has some responsibility, but the fundamental one is the People's Party, and there the People's Party of Galicia and Mr. Feijóo have systematically shut down. Mr. Feijóo was already someone in the year 2000, when Mr. Aznar extended the concession from 2023 to 2048, in an extension of an annexation of a decree on that disaster of the Pias Bridge in the dark, a failure of complete transparency. Mr. Feijóo was silenced when he was privatized in 2004 by Mr. Cascos and Mr. Aznar. Mr Feijóo was silenced with Decree 104/2013, which is part of the person responsible for the increase in the proposed tariffs. By the way, proposed by the People's Government before the Socialist Government arrived. He also closed with the infamous veto of the People's Party, the People's Government in Madrid, to the process of the law passed unanimously here in the German Parliament. You are not able to defend the same here in the Greek Parliament as in Madrid. Rhinse of the Greeks and the Greeks. Here they voted in favour of the transfer and there Mr. Rajoy banned anti-democraticly, as the Constitutional Court itself has shown, the processing of a law only because it put the business of the company at risk. Out of the details, we also mean — one minute — that you also shut up with this 3.8% increase in taxes announced at the end of 2017. They were completely shut up as the German Government and as the Parliamentary Group. And this climb from which you will blame the Socialist Party has two responsible: the Socialist Party and the People's Party. Part of the 2011 agreement to cover Rande's works, a shame, some works that will benefit and enable more business of the company and that we will have to pay all the users of that highway, but then there are two parts that correspond to the People's Party decisions, which are the ones that are asked to be reviewed here and we support them to be reviewed. But, apart from these details, there are two fundamental issues and here all groups should be committed: One is to support the transfer from AP-9 to Galicia. In Marea you'll do it here and there, in Madrid; the People's Party and the Socialist Party we'll see. The People's Party so far has put obstacles in place. And another is working for the rescue for the public on the highway. Why is it not even denied in any amendment that we present to make a study of the viability of the ransom...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u197	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u198	...studying the economic cost — is it over — to compare with the current situation? We believe that with a concession up to 2048, with benefits of 1 per 2 euros and under these conditions, it leaves room to think why not rescue it to the public. Much more when 2020...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u199	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u200	... they beat loans worth 400 million, they're going to have to refinance the debt, and if they get interest, they're going to have the right to raise the fees even more. So why systematically...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u202	...do you refuse to study this ransom? I don't mean to bet on the ransom anymore, but to study to compare this situation with the possibility...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u204	...to rescue to the public and directly manage this highway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u205	Thank you very much. You have the floor on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos Couñago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u206	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to try neither anesthetize them nor call them friars, because they seem to be equal. As I will also try to avoid the natural curiosity that seems to show Mr Bará for Havana, that it certainly sends you fuck! But at last. Let's get into the central issue. I shall begin by briefly analysing the initiative put forward by the BNG, which basically proposes three things: an audit of the service — we understand it to be carried out by the State —; an opening of informative and sanctioning files — if appropriate — for non-compliance; and a failure to comply with a series of commitments, a series of contacts, basically not taking up the 1% increase agreed by the Ministry of Development and directed by Mr Pepe Blanco; and eliminating the 50% bonus established for users on the Vigo-Pontevedra route. Because you have to tell everything, you want to eliminate that bonus. We have tabled an amendment to this, which we consider to be consistent. We don't have any problems with the state making an audit, as long as the state does. We have nuanced that the application of compensatory measures is good for us, as long as there are serious non-compliances. And we cannot support State commitments being breached. We assume that Mr. Zapatero has signed with Audasa, right? and we demand also that Mr. Rajoy has signed with Galicia through a joint commission. And these are: the non-impacting of future works, the elimination agreement of the pay of Roundola — since we know nothing since the socialists arrived in the Government — and the works of compensation in Chapel, Rande and Teis, because they have a previous processing that was supplemented by the report of the State Council on May 27. That's why, Mr Bará, we couldn't pass it, because three days later there was a motion of censure. Since May 27th he has been awaiting approval at the Council of Ministers, we know nothing about it. I also want to talk briefly about the amendments tabled by the other groups. In Marea it is added to this to breach contracts, to them the contracts do not like, unless they are subscribed to the undersigned, that they defend the cover and sword. And they're also asking us to prepare a rescue feasibility study. We understand that, if they want to leave the price rise without effect between 2018 and 2020, they will have to explain how they intend to compensate for those works. And the study — I repeat — whenever the state does, we have no drawback. The most interesting thing is the socialist amendment. It's an amendment that I allow myself to be baptized as the amendment. Where are you going? Apples bring it. Look, you propose to manage the AP-9 transfer, as if someone had questioned this! [[Laughter]] Neither the BNG nor any group have questioned this issue, we all agree. It sounds a bit like not small excuse, but we understand that, whenever conditions are favourable — the conditions of transfer — we will all be in favour. That's why we ask you to negotiate on a joint committee, because we want to talk about what the conditions are. Then tell us, Mr. Álvarez, to reduce the fees. Where was the socialist cowardice? Because the most important part of the amendments is that they didn't show up. Unpresented amendments that previously supported the PSOE: assumption from the budget of AP- capacity expansion, avoiding its cumulative annual tolls of 1% for 20 years. Full of May 10, 2017 — no word today. Elimination of the payroll from state budgets. Full of March 20, 2018 — not a single word of that — Why? Because the PSOE is making the expression "a 360 degree rotation" come true. Look, with Zapatero rising 1% for 20 years. With Rajoy, who eliminates the rise and assumes with the budget. With Sánchez, where I said, I say Diego. This anywhere in the world would be an exercise of cynicism, not in Spain. In Spain we already know him as pessimism. And what is pessimism? Then the sublimation of political cynicism, gentlemen. And the step of: they mix for us and we have to say it rains, they mix it for us and you say there's sun. It's an intolerable thing. It's this thing of being a member, and even minister, of the most feminist government in the world but prefer men's courts because they're more reliable. It's this thing of publicly defending the rights of homosexuals but calling them faggots in private conversations, taking drinks with pseudo-mafies called Lola, that's right, without knowing you at all! It's amazing! Pesosmo is that the problem... of course, ladies, is that we have to tell him! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] No, man, no, but don't get angry. [[Applause]] Pessoism is that the problem of a thesis is not the thousands of words copied, but they forgot to put two quotes. That's pessimism! [[Murmurs.]] Pesosmo is to declare Christmas in September not to talk about August accidents. Pesosmo is the alarm that was made today talking about pensions, and pesosmo is what you just did here, by the way, with two meals! I honestly tell you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u207	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u208	I'm done. We have memory, the Greek people have memory, the shocksters have memory, and we're going to keep our word, because for us it's still more important to keep the word you say. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. Pazos. Mr. Bará Torres has the floor on the initiative's author group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u210	Mr. Pajos has just done here a brilliant exercise of that popular saying that he says he looks at the ball in the alien eye and doesn't see the beam on his own. Because, of course, you forget that it was the People's Party who privatized the highway; who sold it at the balance price; who systematically failed — because you have been ruling all these years — all the agreements of the Greek Parliament; who systematically vetoed the transfer of the law in the State Parliament. [[Applause]] So don't come here to teach lessons from anything, because it was you who watched and boycotted that transfer. And now they come up with the brilliant idea of running it through the quick way through the joint commission. Why didn't you do it if it was so easy? Oh, yeah. [[Murmurs.]] If they did! Agreements in this Parliament: installation of January 2017 anti-rubbing screens. Why didn't they? Now they blame the PSOE. Why didn't they? They had a year and a half to do it, and they could have done it before. Urban AP-9 transformation; neither. Improving the quality of life and minimizing the impact of infrastructures on Chapela parish; neither. Abolishing the franchisee privilege of the 95% bonus; neither. I suppose you, as you said here, could well support the proposals that the BNG presented, for example the audit, by studying a compensation formula; or opening up information files and, if so, sanctioners, you will have no problem in supporting these measures. Neither do we have any problems, for example, in admitting as an amendment to add its first amendment, number one. The 2, 3 and 4 are already included in the proposal presented by the BNG. We don't have any problems, either, of course, including how you add the amendments you tabled in Marea. And although I have already told you in my speech that we are not going to discuss the transfer here because this is already approved and requisitioned in this Parliament and now it is necessary to move the Government of the State above all, and also the Parliament of the State, and we trust that if you do so easily, we do not have any problem accepting the amendment as an amendment to add the Socialist Group; as an amendment to add. And the agreements need to be reviewed and annulled in those clauses which set up, as we say, abusive conditions and which clearly benefit the concessionaire. That is the point of the first point of the proposal presented by the BNG. We therefore accept these amendments to which I have made reference, and we hope to vote in favour of the other groups which have tabled these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u211	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Let's move on to the next initiative. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Patricia Vilan Lorenzo and three other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Union of Galicia to develop a comprehensive project of care and attention to the waters of the basin of Baxe and the Umia River, as well as the urgent call of representatives of the Council of the Environment and Planning of the Territory, the Galician Hydrographic Confederation, the Galician Waters, the representatives of the municipalities of the basin of the Umia River and the Autonomous Observatory of the rivers of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u212	Two amendments have been tabled by the Group of Parliamentary Members of the Nationalist Block Galego and the Group of Parliamentary Members of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u213	To formulate the initiative has the floor to Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u214	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good day to the mayor of Caldas de Reis and to the companions of Caldas de Reis. And I'm also seeing the Salceda compañeras de Caselas, who are also known. I was going to start my speech, but I'm going to start teaching this photograph. This is the river Umia, and as you talked about memory here, I'm going to quote Federico García Lorca because this picture gives to that: "I really love you green. - Green wind. - Green branches. - The boat on the sea and the horse on the mountain." It's very good that you come here to talk about memory, but you forget that they abstained on a fundamental issue for citizens who are the historical memory, when they abstained from voting in favour of taking Franco out of the Fall Valley. And they also abstained from applying the Law of Historical Memory and from the fact that Federico García Lorca is still being thrown into a bucket, even though he is one of the greatest Spanish poets. [[Applause]] That's his memory! [[Applause]] Each one has his own! [[Murmurs.]] We have our own and we have it very clearly. [[Applause]] You too, don't hide it! On January 25th this year, the Government passed a decree establishing the Galician River Observatory. It's framed in the area of the Environmental Counsellor, and it's seen that the people selected in that observatory don't observe too much. Since July 7th, not a single news from the observatory in the municipalities affected by the state of the river, by the state of coronation, and which use either directly or indirectly its waters. According to this decree, the Plenary of the Observatory may meet in extraordinary session when agreed upon by the Presidency. Who holds the presidency of that observatory? Well, the Environmental Advisor. And where is the Environmental Advisor? — like what was said about where Wally is?— For dedicated from months to something else, absorbed by his work in another thing, and he didn't even have time to call by telephone any of the mayors and mayors of the municipalities that are affected by this green situation of the Umia River and the coronation: Caldas de Reis, Cuntis, Moraña, Barro, Portas, Vilagaría de Arousa, Vilanova, Ribadumia and Cambados. Some, by the way, governed by the People's Party. Not a single word from the advisor. The creation of this observatory, if it were not a chiringuito more, could have been an advance, because it serves as an advisory body, consultation, support and assessment of the environmental quality not only of Umia, but of all the other rivers of the Galicia-Costa basin. Unfortunately, it does not bring anything, but not just for Umia, for nothing, for no river, because this is the image. The Environment Advisor is doing more to his candidacy to the Mayor of the Crown, and we hope that the krunis and the krunis will have something more luck in fulfilling the election promises. We must go to non-compliance with electoral promises on the Umia River, the breaches are historic! The first, which has existed since 2001, and what was counsellor of that macro-advisorship, the COTOP, now deceased, Mr. Cook, had promised a recreational area with a pool. Mr. Cook did. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We can quote Mr. Cook to say what he promised, but that's what Mr. Cook did the coroner, he was COTOP's advisor. That's indisputable. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's not memory, it's indisputable. We have to go to the DOG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u215	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u216	I'm just saying it was Mr. Cook, president. I'm not qualifying anything at all. He was COTOP's advisor and was called Cuisine's last name, and he did the coroner.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u217	Quiet, please. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u218	I don't think he's offensive. If it's offensive, the president's worth... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u219	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u220	...and not those two people who are there, who look like Epi and Blas, and they're replicating me all the time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u221	I ask them to keep quiet and listen to who is in the use of the word, to all, to everyone. All, all, all. Thank you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u222	This is a picture of Mr. Cuña's project, which promised a recreational area with the pool, a river beach, snacks, sports lanes, a fishing centre, a boatboat and even a playground. They sent a video to every Caldas house promising those things. What's up? Nothing. In November 2010, the BOE announced the bidding and adjudication of a project to maintain and preserve the margins of coronation in the Town Councils of Cuntis, Moraña and Caldas de Reis. He signed someone who's alive, it's Paco Menéndez, Francisco Menéndez, who is now responsible for the Galician Infrastructure Agency. I hope I can say responsible and Paco Menéndez or Francisco Menéndez. He's also doing his job very well, because he just needs to see how much he's doing with the MOVE Plan to realize that, indeed, his work is ingenious, just like in the care of the Umia River. In March 2011, another macro-council who is alive, Mr. Agustín Hernández, and who is a man very concerned about cleaning up the rivers of Galicia, summoned a meeting with mayors and one of the mayors of the municipalities, and with whom he was then president of the Deputy of Pontevedra, to speak of the Comprehensive Plan of Action for the Umia River, with an budget of more than 22 million euros, until 2015, and we are in 2018. [[Applause]] What's done? Nothing. And the proof -- as my fellow scientists would say, the empirical demonstration -- that nothing has been done is this photograph. The river is on alert for cyanobacteria, which are toxic algae, potentially dangerous to people's health. He's been in green since July. He just needs to go there to see him. But it's just that every summer is the same. The cheer is the same. The river affects many municipalities, many people. For over 10 kilometers, these people can no longer bathe in the Umia River. We're talking about municipalities from the inside: there's no beach, there's swimming pools, but there's no beach. Historically, people were going to bathe in the river, now they can't. The Caldas Town Hall, moreover, has to assume between 30,000 and 40,000 euros more, an overcost, to ensure that the water that drinks its neighbours is of quality; a municipality that has less than 10,000 inhabitants. Every year you have to pay for an analysis every week, more reactive, more energy. And you, who received more than 4 million euros from hydropower between 2002 and 2008, don't give anything to these analysts at all. That's your concern about Umia and the quality of the water. In addition to a couple of meetings with the territorial chief in Pontevedra, who must also be an expert in chorus and cyanobacteria, and responsible for health, to say: the quality of the water is perfect. Yes, the city council officials knew it because they did the analysis, and specifically the Caldas pay for their pocket, the pocket of all their citizens, thanks to the effort of the Town Hall. A press release... I always say that I don't believe in interplanetary confluences, but I believe more every day since I've been in here. Yesterday there was a press release in the media: Galician waters affect the cleaning of public domain areas along with the encouragement of the Bass. And yesterday afternoon the mayor of Caldas was summoned to meet with the representative of the waters of Galicia—causualities of life!— First he said that the current Union has no responsibility and that the culprit of everything is — not Zapatero — the Bipartite, as it is not! But then he said they were going to send some technicians and do a study — about the color palette, because otherwise it's very difficult — about the river. Our bill is very simple. His companions in Caldas de Reis have already voted for a motion that practically asks for the same thing we asked for here. That's five points. It is simply that they report, that they meet with the representatives of the councils, that they prepare themselves — before the end of this year so that it will not happen the same year next year — an integral project of care and attention to the hug and the river, and that the channel of the river and the bottom of the choir will be cleared. We don't ask for much more. Vote for it. They do the same for their comrades and their comrades in the Caldas Town Hall just fifteen days ago. Nothing else. I'll talk about the amendments later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u223	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u224	The BNG will support this initiative because, as the spokesman for the Socialist Party said, he collects the agreements already adopted by the Council, but, of course, he left without saying anything important, which is that the council agreement talks about other transcendent issues, that is, he does not just stay on the surface, but goes to the bottom of the problem. So we present an amendment that goes further and speaks of something that also appears collected in the motion approved by the Town Hall, which is the evaluation of the definitive non-use of the bass support and the recovery of the hydroelectric concession for public health reasons. So I guess you won't have a problem with the Socialist Group in supporting the amendment of the BNG, which was also supported by the Socialist Party in Caldas. It is clear that we have a very serious problem for public health and the environment arising from the construction of the Caldas coroner. This is not denied by anyone and even the spokespersons of the People's Party also publicly, at least the spokespersons of the People's Party in Caldas. It's a serious problem for the contour of the coronation, for the region of Caldas and for the district of Salnés, where 150,000 people live, who become 300,000 in summer time. And it's also a potential risk to Arousa's laugh, which we know is Galicia's most productive laugh. And we have to do a bit of history, of course, because we are talking about a encouragement that was an imposition by the Galician People's Party on the majority will of the population, of society, of the municipalities directly affected, although it must also be said that later some mayors went up to Mr. Cook's pneumatic boat and took a walk through the coroner when it was built. This encouragement not only solved none of the great and serious problems that I intended to solve, but also created others — and much more serious — that have to do with the change in the river, with pollution, with the risk to the middle, especially with the risk to the population, as we have seen recently, with the ban on the bath and, above all, with regard to the supply of water to the population, both in the case of Caldas and also in the municipalities of Salnés that provide uptakes in the river and that do not have the carbon-powering systems that have, for example, the supply of Caldas. And it's not that BNG says, that the World Health Organization has alerted about potential risks to microcystin's health. Even in very small doses it can cause liver damage, digestive problems, neurological effects. And there's also evidence that microcystin can be inductive or triggering tumors and has cumulative effects on the body; that's what the World Health Organization says. So it's a subject for awakening social alarm, for worrying, and for taking effective measures that can't just be studied, they have to be effective and effective measures. And what we have in view of this situation of social alarm is an absolute lack of information and control on the part of the Galician and Galician Waters Board. They decree the ban of the bathroom on August 30 in Caldas, when the alert was declared on July 6th, and curiously it is made this ban of the bathroom, or the ban order of the bathroom, immediately after there is a public complaint by the BNG. The story of this encouragement shows that it is a scandalous example of spending public funds both on construction and also on the famous Umia Plan, announced to bomb and plate in 2011, with a cost of more than 22 million euros... by the way, an announcement that made an ex-council named Agustín Hernández, the great protector and defender of the Greek rivers. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's not present, but I'm sure you can tell them. No problem. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If we get...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u225	Quiet, please. Continue, Mr Bará. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, quiet...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u226	I understand, Mrs. Paula Prado, Mr. Tellado, that you like us to quote Mr. Agustín Hernández here, who does both well and defends the Greek rivers, especially the Sar River. [[Murmurs.]] Caldas' encouragement is exclusively in the economic interest, in the interest of hydroelectric exploitation for the benefit, for profit, of a private company. For the BNG, and from there our amendment, the solution goes through the disappearance of the chorus, the return of the river to its former state, to recover Umia as a clean river, a river alive, with biodiversity, and not a river that is a threat, a toxic river, a dead river...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u227	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u228	...which is what we have now. This must, of course, be done with all guarantees, with prior technical studies, and therefore the amendment, in which we propose the disappearance of the bass and the rescue of the hydroelectric concession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u229	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Mr Antón Sánchez has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u230	Good morning again. Mr. Agustín Hernández is present because he is in our hearts. We, from En Marea, wish you to follow many years as it is in the Town Hall of Santiago, will be good news for us. Therefore, Mr. Agustín Hernández is always present. [[Murmurs.]] Moreover, it is always present because, of course, decisions or decisions that are not made have consequences, and you have to assume the political responsibilities that bring about certain decisions. The decisions of the construction and subsequent action against Mr. Agustín Hernández are responsible for having a serious environmental and health problem in the Umia River today. That is to say, with the decision to build the basse choir, taken badly and with the social opposition of the county, the area, the strong opposition. It has also been shown that the arguments of such opposition were true, for it was a decision that placed on the river Umia a pollution-producing machine. I also say that in that study that we will support it, to take the effective solutions that have not been taken so far, there is one thing that does solve the problem, and that water runs, that eliminates the relief. That nobody can deny that it would solve the problem of microcystin, eutrophication, because, if water runs, there's no such problem, that happens in stagnant waters. It is clear that Mr. Agustín Hernández also said it was because there were many contributions of nitrogen and phosphorus from the gain activity, etc. Of course!, and as there are such contributions, Mr. Agustín Hernández does it is to put an obstacle to embalming the water and then throw into the river contaminated water which obviously makes treatment for water purification difficult. But of course, the treatment of water purification doesn't pay for it to the Galician Union, the People's Party doesn't pay for it, they pay for each of the municipalities that have to take the water from a river more contaminated than before because of this microcystin problem. So the bad decision to build, and then the decisions that were said to be taken to fight this problem were an absolute failure, as we see today, because the problem is still going on. This announced Umia Plan, amounting to EUR 22 million, where is the execution going? How do we know that this Umia Plan was executed? We know the water's still green, but we don't know how much was spent on that famous Umia Plan. What about this eucalyptus-coded treatment? What are the results? Why isn't that explained transparently? And why is failure not recognized and talking about definitive solutions? We will support this initiative of the Socialist Party, although we believe that, of course, the encouragement has not properly solved the problem, the problem of supply, it has not resolved the regulation of the packs by itself, and for the only one who has served — that is true — it is for a friendly company to have a hydroelectric concession and to do a well-paid business. For that it did serve, the other one didn't do well. They therefore assume the responsibilities, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. As was said here, even those who have to suffer there, because there they suffer from PP, PSOE, Bloc and En Marea. And those who suffer from it there and have to face the neighbors, whether the People's Party or another party, demand solutions. The representatives of the People's Party there also claim solutions. Clearly, no one can deny this great problem. So we in our amendments added — to add — that we should take into account the possible solution of the non-use of refreshment within the variables that can be studied, and also that information is given for the execution of the measures announced by the advisor, through that Plan Umia, in 2011. We believe that it is not only fair that we know that the money has been spent, that measures have been implemented, but that it is essential to take stock of the effectiveness of those measures, or that they have not been taken, in order to take the measures that give a final solution. It's fundamental. For now it has not been done, but we believe that this non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Group should be adopted to light itself on the subject and, once and for all, if you take the bull by the horns of this serious issue, caused by irresponsible decisions of the People's Party, by a counselor called Cuisine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. You have the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Trenor López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u232	Good morning. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. I will try to refer to my comrades, even if they interrupt me, with respect that they deserve, and not make allusions to fictional characters to try to miss them or humiliate them. I understand that when you have to resort to those mechanisms or those types of references... we suffer them, I remember them in the Coruña when you referred to members of the opposition — including those of the Socialist Party — and to members of the press as if they were orphans, simply because you did not share what the municipal government said, which is just another way to show a great disregard for democratic norms and not be able to accept criticisms that do the opposite to them. I also think that making a reference to Epi and Blas as if it were something negative, precisely at this moment that we know that Epi and Blas have come out of the closet and that maybe they're happier than ever because they can share with all their friends that common life they've had for decades, I don't think it's right for us to make a reference to them at this time as if they were negative characters. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] On the memory, of what Mr. Tellado was talking about, I do not fully agree with what he says. I don't think you're anesthetized, you're already in REM phase, the only thing that distinguishes them is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u233	And from Umia we can talk, too, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u234	...that they have slight movements of the eyes, because you had a demanding frenetic activity a few months ago, and now, frankly, you have to touch them there with a little to see if they're alive.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u235	That's the question, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u236	That demanding activity's passed on to another life. Mr. Agustín Hernández, Mr. Sánchez, I don't know whether you are or not in your heart, I don't even know if you are in this parliament, what I do know is that Mr. Noriega wants to be here. I don't know if it's in your place or in that seat that's empty right now. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Applause]] On the subject, I would like to thank Mrs Vilan for the reference she made to the candidate of the People's Party, who asked her to complete the electoral program that we are going to take to these elections. You assume that Mrs. Mato will be mayor, so she has the great responsibility to carry out the project. I give him the reason, I give him the reason, he's going to be mayor and he's going to run the election program. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the Caldas embassies I would like to highlight the full collaboration of the Galician Union with the municipalities affected by the proliferation of cyanobacteria in the Baxe embassies. Yesterday there was a meeting in Pontevedra by the director of the Galician Waters with the crisis cabinet created in the Caldas Town Hall for the proliferation of these bacteria. The meeting provided all available information on the situation, interpretation and criteria of technicians working in the area, with the aim of resolving all the doubts raised. The observations and demands of the Caldas Council were also heard — here to greet its mayor — with regard to this situation, but perhaps the most important of the meeting is that the director of Galician Waters reiterated that, despite the presence of algae and the colouring of waters, the bass's coronation is free of toxin, and guaranteed that water is suitable for consumption. The latest data available shows that the situation of the bearing remains stable, without being able to be alarmed; that is, no toxins are detected in this coronation, so water is suitable for consumption. In addition, it must be remembered that the potabilizers of the population nuclei, located below the dam, are able to eliminate both the cyanobacteria and the toxin in case they have been given. The important thing is not to alarm the population as it is being done since the opposition, especially since the follow-up protocol for these cases establishes very rigorous controls, which are a clear and evident guarantee of safety in the quality of water for consumption. There's no public health problem for water consumption or toilet use. There are no toxins, and this is demonstrated by the tests that take place every week at the Baxe reservoir. And I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that we have a protocol of action established since 2007, updated and improved in 2012; a protocol that establishes collaboration between the Environmental and Health Council in monitoring and information to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u237	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u238	Ladies and gentlemen, to finish, and referring specifically to the proposals you make, most of the measures you call for in your non-law proposal are already being made. Galician waters have already carried out tasks of conservation and maintenance of the hydraulic public domain at the bottom of the river Umia; the latter have been carried out this same week. In addition, meetings are being held from various bodies with responsibility in this area to promote coordination and collaboration between administrations, with the aim of reducing the problem arising from the proliferation of cianobacteria in the Baxe reservoir.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u239	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u240	And in relation to — and already to finish, and this goes seriously — to the River Observatory, it will meet before the end of the year, and, of course, as a body that will advise on the state of the environment and will collaborate in the preparation of reports and studies and in the proposal for measures on the rivers of Greece, the situation of the river Umia and the reservoir will also be one of the issues to be addressed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u241	Thank you very much, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u242	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u243	You have the floor, by the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u244	Thank you, President. I have a lot of personal respect for Epi and Blas, but they were arguing, they were talking and bothering, but or less what you're doing, but as I have a lot of respect for them, we changed Epi and Blas for... I don't know, Travolta and Olivia Newton-John, or duo Pimpinela, and we got exactly the same. We are so little in the REM phase that the only initiative that comes on the encouragement to this plenary is that of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I wish we were all in the REM phase like this, including the advisor himself, who already sees how interested the river Umia and the encouragement, which is not even able to hear an intervention, besides being disturbing. It would be nice if you would sit down and attend, even to the mayor of Caldas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u245	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u246	Counselor, this is the state of the Umia River, this one. You don't know how he is because he's never been there. I could ask Mr. Román Rodríguez, who went to a music festival, and he could see in the first person what the color of the river was. You're not even for the festivals in Kings Horses. Water is suitable for consumption, says the People's Party Member. Indeed, because the King's Caldas Town Hall has to spend between 30,000 and 40,000 euros every summer to make the water fit for consumption, if not, it wouldn't, the analysts wouldn't do well. It would be good if you didn't accept any of the requests made on this initiative. It is true that there have been meetings since yesterday, since we brought this initiative to this plenary, because before there was no meeting, neither with the Environmental Council, nor with the waters of Galicia, nor with the territorial head. Welcome, Counselor, to your seat and this proposal not to law. On the other hand, we ask, in addition to these meetings, an integral project of care and attention to the concoction, counselor, and we also ask for the cleaning of the channel of the river and the glass of the concoction. That is obvious to the MP of the People's Party, I know that these two things are not of interest to you, they only talk about the meetings, which were yesterday and early and at the request of the councils, not on the government's own initiative, but at the request of the councils, and they only talk about the observatory, which is not doing very well at the moment, including its president, who is present here. Counselor, do you remember a green path that had been projected in the municipalities of Vilagarcia, Gates and Caldas between the deputy, your department and the municipalities? The green road isn't this, you decided they wouldn't intervene. This is green but it's not a way; this is water, advisor. Before you go to the Town Hall, maybe you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u247	Finish, please. And say the positioning of the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u248	Yes, I'm going to finish. I'll say something about the amendments. Before going to the opposition bank, exactly as did Dositeo Rodríguez, Agustín Hernández, Elena Muñoz and all those advisers who leave here to the municipal world and who pass through the opposition banks, it would be good for you to go see the Umia River and now vote in favour of our non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u249	Mrs. Vilan, you're done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u250	On the amendment of the BNG we are not going to accept it, because it is true that it was demanded as a collectile in the motion, but this non-law proposition indicates other different issues besides the fillings, which now do not exist and rather do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u251	What about En Marea's?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u252	And on that of En Marea we agree to add point 6 that comes from the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. Vote in favour, with the same courage as their concelers and concelers did in the Hall of Caldas de Reis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u253	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. Let's turn to the votes now... [[Mr Prado del Río asks for a word.]] Why do you want the use of the word, Mrs. Prado?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u254	On the basis of Article 76.1. Mr. President, the Socialist Group once asked for the floor not to mention people who were not here, as was the case of the Government delegate, because a fellow of ours referred to his profession, said he was anesthetist. What we ask and regret is that the Socialist Party, now without arguments, insults and compares these Members with Epi and Blas, Pimpinela and John Travolta and Olivia Newton-John.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u255	Don't worry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u256	We regret that Mrs. Vilan is as vulgar as the Minister of Justice and follows her star.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u257	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. I didn't interpret those allusions as an insult, so I didn't say anything. In any case, I would like to thank all Members, on the one hand and on the other, who were trying to avoid certain allusions. It would be much better for debate and more inclusive for all. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u258	We're going to vote, if you like. First, we are voting on initiative 4.1 of the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and six other Members. I've pointed out that no amendments have been accepted. We therefore vote on the initiative. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and six other Members, on the realization by the Government of Greece of the timely management before the Ministry of Development, within the framework of the contract awarded by Renfe to Talgo, to equip Galicia with AVRIL trains to provide the service on the Madrid-Ourense-La Coruña and Vigo line, in order to improve the time of connection with the Meseta. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 52; abstentions, 20. The voting is positive. This initiative is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u259	Voting of the non-legislative motion of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea at the initiative of Mr David Rodríguez Estévez and Mr Antón Sánchez García. Is voting on points taken? Yes. How many points does the initiative have? Shall we vote everything together? Tell me. Give Mr. Fernández a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u260	In the case of the En Marea initiative we call for a vote in two groups. On the one hand, point 1; and on the other hand, points 2 and 3. In the case of the BNG initiative, also in two groups. On the one hand, points 1, 4 and 5
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u261	In the case of the BNG... well, you already ask for the next one, even if we don't vote for it now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u262	Of course, because we vote now too. Oh, no! I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u263	We'll vote this one first and then we'll talk. We shall vote on initiative 4.2. First, point number one. We vote. Voting of point 1 of the Proposal is not G.P.'s law. Mr de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr David Rodríguez Estévez and Mr Antón Sánchez García, on the measures to be taken by the Council of Galicia in relation to the implementation of the improvements of working conditions in the public enterprise Seaga. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 39; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. It therefore declines this point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u264	We shall now proceed to the vote on points 2 and 3 of this initiative. We vote. Vote of points 2 and 3 of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. Mr de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr David Rodríguez Estévez and Mr Antón Sánchez García, on the measures to be taken by the Council of Galicia in relation to the implementation of the improvements of working conditions in the public enterprise Seaga. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These points are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u265	We are now voting on initiative 4.7, which has been debated in conjunction with the previous one, the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of José Luís Rivas Cruz and five other Members. Mr Fernández has also asked for a point-by-point vote. Do the authors of the initiative agree to vote on points?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u266	Mr. Fernández, repeat, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u267	It would be points 1, 4 and 5 in a vote. And another vote on the 2nd and the 3rd. In a group of 1.4 and 5; and in the other group, points 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u268	We shall then proceed to the vote, first of all, on points 1, 4 and 5 of initiative 4.7. We vote. Vote of points 1, 4 and 5 of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. José Luís Rivas Cruz and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the experience, working conditions and the duties of the staff of the public company Seaga. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 39; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. These points are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u269	We are now voting on the rest of the points, points 2 and 3 of this initiative. We vote. Vote of points 2 and 3 of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. José Luís Rivas Cruz and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the experience, working conditions and the duties of the staff of the public company Seaga. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These points are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u270	We are now voting on initiative 4.3 of the Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mrs Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members, on the actions of the Galician Union, so that during the X legislatura it will assume in full the cost of the planned (non-emergency) displacements of persons with dependence, disability or mobility problems, guaranteeing the universality and freeness of this service. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This initiative is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u271	We voted on the following initiative, by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, at the initiative of Marta Nóvoa Iglesias and six other Members. The amendments were not accepted, so we voted. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez asks for the floor.]] What do you want the word for? Give a voice to Mr. Losada's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u272	On the basis of Article 94.1, for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u273	But we haven't voted yet, after the vote. Let us vote first. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Galician people, at the initiative of Da Marta Nóvoa Churches and six other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Union before the Government of the State in respect of the Order of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition which establishes territorial supplements in relation to the electricity access fees corresponding to the financial year 2013. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 45; abstentions, 27. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u274	You tell me, Mr. Losada, what did you want the use of the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u275	On the basis of Article 94.1, for explanation of vote, because in my speech I showed that we were going to support the initiative, but we are so anesthetized that we are asking the People's Party to change the law, and unfortunately, for some reason I understand that it has to do with the electricity companies, it doesn't want to change the law in the Government of Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u276	Thank you, Mr. Losada. We voted on the following initiative, by the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of José Manuel Lago Peñas and two other Members. I understand that the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block was accepted and that it was not accepted by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. It was like that, wasn't it? We vote like this. What are the points that can be voted on, or how do you want to vote? Let them give a voice to Mrs Vázquez Verao's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u277	Firstly, we would vote on the proposal from our GNP, which would be point 1. And then we would vote as point 2 of the amendment to the BNG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u278	Okay. Well, I think it's clear. First, we voted on the initiative as presented as point 1 of the outcome. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Mr de In Marea, on the initiative of Mr José Manuel Lago Peñas and two other Members, on the demand of the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the establishment of a pension revaluation mechanism which ensures, at least, the maintenance of its purchasing power. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u279	We voted in the second place on point 2, which would be the amendment to the Galician Nationalist Block. We vote. Voting of point 2 of the Proposal is not G.P.'s law. Mr de In Marea, on the initiative of Mr José Manuel Lago Peñas and two other Members, on the demand of the Galician Government to the Central Government for establishing a mechanism for the revalorization of pensions which ensures, at least, the maintenance of its purchasing power. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 52. The result of the vote is negative. The second point of this initiative is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u280	We are voting on the following initiative, from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members. I've pointed out that all the amendments as added were accepted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u281	Yes, with the generosity that characterizes this parliamentary group, we will accept several of the amendments. [[Laughter]] So I explain which points will be added, and then also the point vote. In the first four, there would be the original BNG proposal, minus in the fourth, which would be deleted "the traffic that uses the new external lanes." The fifth would be the amendment of the PSOE, 6 and 7 would be the amendments tabled by En Marea. Points 8 and 9 would be Amendments 1 and 6 of the People's Party. They would vote separately — it is already spoken to the spokespersons, if I did not misunderstand — point 1, which is point 1 of the BNG initiative, and point 6, which is the first amendment of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u282	Can you go together on 1 and 6? Separately: 1, 6, and the rest of the points. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u283	I don't know if they want to vote any other points separately.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u284	Generosity has these things. [[Laughter]] Tell me, how is the vote finally left?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u285	Paragraph 1 would be voted on separately, point 6 — which is the first amendment by En Marea — and Amendments 1 and 6 by the People's Party, which are paragraphs 8 and 9 of the proposed transaction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u286	So, let's see if I understood. Point one, then point six, then the rest of the points, and also separated by point eight and nine, which would correspond to the amendment of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u287	Yes, exactly.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u288	I would like to thank you for passing us the final text of what we are going to vote on. So, see if we're not wrong. We shall then vote on point 1 of this initiative. We vote. Vote of point 1 of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in relation to the agreements signed by the Ministry of Development and Audasa in the years 2011 and 2013, the deficiencies of the service provided by the concessionary company of AP-9 and the works of expansion of the Rande bridge. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 39; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. Point 1 of this initiative is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u289	We shall now proceed to the vote on point 6 of this initiative. Vote of point 6 of the G.P.'s Non-Law Proposition. the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in relation to the agreements signed by the Ministry of Development and Audasa in the years 2011 and 2013, the deficiencies of the service provided by the concessionary company of AP-9 and the works of expansion of the Rande bridge. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 39; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. Point 6 of this initiative is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u290	We are now voting on points 8 and 9 of this initiative. We vote. Voting of points 8 and 9 of the G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government in relation to the agreements signed by the Ministry of Development and Audasa in the years 2011 and 2013, the deficiencies of the service provided by the concessionary company of AP-9 and the works of expansion of the Rande bridge. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 45; abstentions, 27. The voting is positive. Points 8 and 9 of this initiative are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u291	We now vote on the rest of the points of this initiative except 1, 6, 8 and 9. Vote of the remaining points, except for the G.P.'s Non-Law Proposition 1, 6, 8 and 9, on the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luis Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the agreements signed by the Ministry of Development and Audasa in the years 2011 and 2013, the deficiencies of the service provided by the concessionary company of AP-9 and the works of expansion of the Rande bridge. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. The remaining points of this initiative are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u292	We voted on initiative 4.8 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Patricia Vilán Lorenzo. I understood that the amendment of the Block is not accepted and that the amendment of In Marea is accepted as an addendum, as point 6. Was that the case, Mrs. Vilán?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u293	The BNG and En Marea are not accepted for part two of their amendment, which is a number six of additions. The amendment itself — to see if it is found here — says: amends number one, of addition; amends number two, of addition. En Marea's. It's number two in addition, which is a point six for the PNL.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u294	All right. Then we vote on the initiative with that amendment of addition included. That is to say, we voted on the complete initiative. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Patricia Vilan Lorenzo and three other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Galician Union to develop a comprehensive project of care and attention to the waters of the basin of the Low and Umia River, as well as the urgent call of representatives of the Council of the Environment and Planning of the Territory, the Galician Hydrographic Confederation, the Galician Waters, the representatives of the municipalities of the basin of the Umia River and the Autonomous Observatory of the rivers of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected. Agenda modification
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u295	After the vote, open the doors. We move on to the next point, which are the interpellations, but first I have to tell you that the oral question that appears as 7.5 on the agenda was welcomed at the request of its authors. So we turn to interpelerations. Mr José Manuel Lago Peñas and two other Members of the G.P. of En Marea, on the policies of the Government of Galicia to deal with the economic and social situation of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u296	Mr Peñas, please wait for a second Mr Lago. Please! We'll listen to the person who's using the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u297	Good morning, Counselor. The advantage of interpellations and that at least one knows there's a person who's paying attention to it in the House, and that always brings some satisfaction. I propose a serious debate. I'm going to do what I can to make this a real debate, seriously. I'm going to try not to quote the acronyms of your party. Well, data must not be denied when positive or negative. From the last trimester of the year 2013, the Greek economy has grown again. It took us five years, but we left the recession. A phase of the economic cycle which logically leads to an increase in employment. And today there are eighty-four thousand more people working in Galicia than at the hardest moment of the recession, right. But the same is true is that in 2018 we have fewer jobs and worse quality than in 2008. Because the balance of this lost decade for employment and well-being is devastating. Five years of growth, yes, but one hundred and twenty-six thousand jobs are left to go back to where we were before we started falling into the well of the great recession. Counselor, we recovered one out of three jobs lost and at this rate we would need to wait until the year 2025 to be where we were in 2008. Another consideration you will share, Counsellor: Galician Union was not guilty of us going into recession, but it is also not responsible for us leaving the recession. The economic cycle — as a former professor well knows — in a globalized economy goes far beyond the capacity of an autonomous government, even the government of a state in the European Union. What governments are responsible for is how the costs of the crisis are distributed and the benefits of recovery, because that is the action of politics. And here, the balance in our country is very negative. The working class, the majority of society, paid the highest price in the crisis and now only benefits from the increase in wealth. One quantified in an unquestionable way this deep imbalance: Galician GDP is already three billion euros higher than in 2008, but the wages, our country's wage mass is still a billion and fifty million euros below what the working class had before the recession. The same wealth, but worse divided. Because that's what caused neoliberal politics, unfair redistribution of income against the majority of society. You know this, counselor: in 2008 wages were 40 percent of GDP; now 42.7%, four points less GDP. This is two thousand six hundred million euros that came out of the pockets of the workers and the workers and that are in the big pockets of the entrepreneurs. Why does participation in non-GDP wages fall? Because there's less work, because it's more precarious and because there's worse wages. Wage precariousness is a structural feature of our country; one fact demonstrates it in an unquestionable way: forty-seven percent of the people who are affiliated in Galicia to the general social security regime work with an indefinite full-time contract. And, therefore, fifty-three percent works either with a temporary contract or with a part-time contract. For that to be understood: more than half the working class in Galicia is in a precarious situation. The crisis and, above all, the neoliberal policy imposed are responsible for their re-existence, Counsellor, Workers and Poor Workers; people who, despite their work, cannot live independently. That's a sad figure that we thought was left behind, on the long night of Frankism's stone, but that's once again a shameful reality in our country. According to data from the IRPF Fairy, in Galicia there are 300,000 people who worked as employees in 2016 and who entered less than 600,5 euros gross per month, a figure so low that it places the people who charge it under the poverty line. It's hard to say, it's hard to accept, but that's the reality of our country's work. Because with official IRPF data we know that one in three people employed in our country is in work poverty. It's true that most of these people -- that's what you'll tell me -- work a few hours a day, a few days a week, a few months a year. But that is precisely exactly the precariousness of work: working with low wages, part-time and very short-term contracts. And that causes situations of absolute and relative poverty. The absolute poverty of the workers for the 186.106 people who entered less than half the minimum inter-professional salary of 2016, which, I remind you, were six hundred and fifty-five euros a month. But relative poverty also for the 456,289 people who entered less than nine hundred euros. Those are forty-five percent of all the employees and employees in our country. Poverty and inequality, because the policies on the right have increased the differences to unknown levels. I'm going to give you a data that's not very used. One percent of IRPF's declarants earn more, plus, than thirty-one percent. Expressed in absolute figures: in Galicia there are thirteen thousand people who earn more, plus their incomes, than 300,000 people. And you know why? Because the elite also takes advantage of the crisis, the elite of the country charges sixty-five times more, on average, than the people who have the lowest wages. Precarity, poverty, inequality... They're not side effects or a price that would inevitably have to be paid for by the crisis. This social deterioration, the transition from a precarious labour market to a precarious society, is a consequence of a premeditated, defined and planned strategy, taking advantage of the shock of the recession, which has its name and instruments. The name is the internal devaluation; and the instruments, the labour reforms that aim to achieve this: low wages in our country. Counsellor, this analysis, this diagnosis of the labour situation in our country is not a partial reading of this Member or of En Marea, quite the contrary. The Galician Economic and Social Council, where businessmen and trade unions are represented, has just made public, a few months ago, its memory of 2017, and I'm going to read two literal paragraphs that are within the highlight of the memory: "The ESC is concerned about the relative weight of employees' remuneration in GDP and demands that progress towards a model of more inclusive growth, with less inequality and with a distribution of more equitable wealth." And on page 24 it says, "In the ESC's view, the quality of employment should be improved, especially in terms of the high rate of timeliness, the short duration of contracts and the high rotation. He also believes that economic recovery should serve to improve income, especially among people with lower levels." It's not said in Marea, it's told by the representatives of the companies and the employees of the world of production and the world of work. So when you answer this question with which I end my inquiry, you think you're not answering me — which I hope too — but the Galician Economic and Social Council. What has he done and, above all, what will his government do to respond to these demands, to combat job insecurity, low wages, inequality, poverty and social exclusion?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u298	Thank you very much, Mr. Lago. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u299	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Lago, I would like to thank you for this substantive debate, this debate to address the situation of the labour market and, above all, to address the economic policies that can meet the needs of our workers and that labour market. Logically, I cannot agree with you that there is a planned strategy by this government to promote low wages, to promote precariousness and to promote inequality. We cannot accept this within the debate, because this government is working precisely to create a more inclusive labour market of more quality and to allow our economy to compete through knowledge, not low wages. That's the guiding principle of our economic policy and our industrial policy, and therefore we're trying to promote those strategies that give us those kinds of answers. It is true that the Greek economy is having a good behaviour, a behaviour even above the Spanish average, which is moving to all sectors, particularly the industrial sector. Because surely you and I agree that the industrial sector is one of the basic pillars of any economy, and that's where we also have to work intensively. The German industry today is stronger and the third largest in billing between January and June. And we're also the second autonomous community on requests this past month, far above the state average. We can also talk about employment, and there we've found that Galicia has already exceeded the million memberships in the last three months, and that we've also been ten consecutive months since November over the 20,000 memberships for Social Security. And if we talk about the EPA -- which also moved it -- we find that three out of every four workers in Galicia have an indefinite contract and that nine out of every ten are busy on a full day. That's the reality of the labour market in Galicia. There are, of course, many challenges that we have to address in order to generate more equality, in order to generate more stable employment and more quality employment. But what is true is that all economic policy, all industrial policy is directed precisely at this quality employment. You tell me about the memory of the Economic and Social Council. I'm going to move here, indeed, the content of that memory, and I'm going to put — if I may — four examples of aspects that are collected in the ESC and that will give an answer to how the Government of Greece is working. The ESC — literally — understands that efforts must be made to enhance quality services linked to the industrial sector and to the economy 4.0. You know that this government is pushing these industry 4.0 projects and the digital transfer to promote competitiveness in key sectors, such as the automotive sector, the naval sector or the aeronautics sector. And you know we have a digitization plan where you're working on five and a half companies, who have already received help to adapt to the new technologies. I would ask En Marea why they don't want to talk about digitization and why they don't want to talk about the boards that need our productive fabric to adapt to the new economy. But, Mr Lago, the ESC also says in that report that it emphasises the need to bet on regulations that facilitate and promote foreign investment in Galicia. That's what the Economic and Social Council says. I propose that, although they voted against, they support the law of business implementation. Because you know that the Business Implementation Act is allowing greater administrative simplification, you know that the Business Implementation Act is also allowing greater access to the business ground and, above all, Mr. Lago, you know that the Business Implementation Act is allowing lower taxes to improve the competitiveness of the industrial fabric. And that's why I would ask you why In Marea insists that in those municipalities where they govern they don't want to lower taxes and therefore in the municipalities where they govern they don't want to collaborate with the Galician board to dynamize the business fabric and attract investments. Let's go with the ESC. In the opinion of the Economic and Social Council, it is important to continue progressing in the type of vocational training and qualification that best suits the demands of companies. Galicia is pioneering, Mr Lago, in the drive of a new model of training for employment, a flexible model where companies design and determine the training they need. He knows that we are developing sectoral training plans in such important sectors as automotive, naval or forestry. I'd ask En Marea why they don't want to raise an open debate about the job coming, Mr. Lago, and put together measures to develop and improve our training. Finally, the Economic and Social Council also considers it important to promote strategies to develop talent management, especially our youth. You know the Smart Specialization Strategy, you know the Galicia Innova 2020 Plan, and you know we're making a bet for the talent and development of R & D projects. I'd like to know why In Marea doesn't strongly support R & D projects like those that are developing in Rozas. Finally, Mr Lago, if you want to talk about economic and employment policy, fully in agreement with you. But if you really want to talk about economic policy, employment policy and the new economy, I would ask you to help give your economy credibility, to give credibility to the value that our entrepreneurs are having by increasing their exports. I would ask En Marea to help this government as well so that the municipalities where they rule reduce taxes and therefore facilitate business implementation. And I would ask En Marea to help defend all the workers as well; not certain workers, Mr. Lago, all the workers: the workers of Ence, the workers of Elnosa, the workers of Meirama... all the workers. Finally, Mr Lago, I would ask you to move forward with concrete proposals. But what I'd also tell you is that Galicia needs to move from the theory of Tide to reality. That theory of En Marea that's leading us to is that we don't have any proposals. It is true — and I finish — that if En Marea's proposals are to raise taxes and close companies, then he won't find Galician Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u300	Thank you, Mr. Count. You have the word on Mr. Lake Peñas' replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u301	Well, we were almost able to have a debate without... finally, some of the municipal tides came out, but we almost got it. Four questions about what he says. First, the same thing always happens: every time I ask the work advisor, he tells me about the industry advisor, and so we're going wrong. We've said this: we need a work counselor or advisor. [[Murmurs.]] Second. Of course, the dialectic game is obvious. The ESC, businessmen and trade unions, has a balanced memory. Balanced memories include critical things and positive things. Logically, you say those ESC elements where businessmen put more pen, and I draw conclusions, which I say to the Labour Counsellor, where trade unions put more pen. And the conclusions I read, I think they're obvious. Thirdly, I do not say that the Galician Union had premeditatedly sought this wage devaluation. But what I'm saying is that the internal devaluation imposed by order of the Troica in the Spanish State in 2010 is theorized. This internal devaluation was going through the reduction of wages and, for that reason, two labour reforms were applied with an objective: to lower wages. Today that reform has won and we have low wages, and that's what concerns us. There's the fourth element, which I don't discuss; I'm an economist and I'm not discussing that we are in a high stage of the economic cycle. What I'm saying is that at the height of the economic cycle, all those cuts that occurred during the recession would have to be reversed. And what we're saying is that not only is this happening, but it's quite the opposite: today's employees are still losing purchasing power because inflation eats nominal increases, pensioners want to keep going up to 0.25% and we're still having the same labour standard as Rajoy's reform. In that sense, we think that this is where the debate would have to go. On the subject of your favorite law, let me ask you a question: why didn't you bring this parliament into employment law? He did, on the first day he went up in this rostrum, he said that in this legislation — in addition to being rural, of the vine — would bring the law of employment, which was a commitment from this government. We have industrial depredation law, but we have no employment law. It's a coincidence, Counselor. And let me back it up a little, nothing more, by giving some liveness to the debate, when you talk about why we don't support the Industrial Implementation Act in Galicia. The other day, the data from which was the foreign investment capture, which is supposed to be the objective of that law, in Galicia in the year that has been implementing the law. [[Murmurs.]] You know the figure; the rest of the Members and Members don't have to know because that's a subject... but you know the number, counselor. I'm going to say: 0.2% of the entire state investment, the minimum number of our history! Clearly below, half the figure that was last year. I mean, it looks like it's not just En Marea that doesn't like the Law of Predation; investors, who in theory intended that law, don't seem to have much illusion either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u302	Thank you, Mr. Lago. You have the floor now, Mr. Economics and Employment Counsellor, Mr. Count.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u303	Thank you very much. Mr Lago, I really am glad that we can have this kind of substantive debate. The only thing is that we really need to focus the debate and not deviate, because if we talk about employment policy we also have to talk about industrial policy, because they are closely linked. And, in this case, the Industry Council also has job skills. So I think that's a good approach, because talking about industrial policy is about job creation, and talking about employment necessarily needs an industrial policy that meets those needs. What I don't understand is why you don't want to talk about the Business Implementation Act. I'm going to give you a specific example, because you're telling me about macro numbers, they're there, and what we have to see is the trend. You know that many of the foreign investments go through Madrid on many occasions in their accounts and therefore often do not reflect reality on the territory in the different autonomous communities. I can raise specific cases for you, and I'll set up Benteller's case. Benteler is a company that will start the construction of a new factory in Galicia on Friday, and one of the determining elements of that decision was to be able to make this investment in an entrepreneur council where he has the 90th and 5 percent bonus of municipal taxes for three years. Why do the municipalities not want to subsidize employers' taxes to be implemented for three years if they do not have a breakdown, from the point of view of the income they currently have, in their budgets? That's the question. Why don't we support the reduction of taxes for business deployment? I think that's where we have to focus the debate and, of course, that's where we have to add effort. We will have the opportunity to debate the employment law in this Parliament and we will also have the opportunity to put in place measures that can further assist the development of our labour market, for example in the field of training. But as far as training is concerned, Galicia is pioneering and allowing it to be the entrepreneurs who design and decide on its training. Why don't we bring this debate to this parliament and actually follow that path, where employers have a response to their training demands? That's employment policy too. That's where I think we need to focus the debate, keep working so that our Public Employment Service will continue to pay attention and provide guidance and training to our unemployed. I give you a data: one in three persons attended by the Public Employment Service of Galicia found work within the next six months, once they received that training and guidance. We must therefore continue to work for that quality job and also act through the Labour Inspectorate. Since 2017, more than one hundred and sixteen thousand actions by the Labour Inspectorate have enabled four out of ten security inspections to have a concrete response, and that we could increase 7,348 jobs and convert 10,000 temporary contracts into indefinite. The government is also working on quality, and there, Mr. Lago, is where we have to find ourselves: betting on talent, bet on training, but also bet on an industrial policy that gives answers to the new economy and allows us to advance in industry 4.0, innovation and hence competitiveness. And that's where we have to sum up efforts too, Mr. Lago, lowering taxes on entrepreneurs in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u304	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. We're still on the agenda. Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and two other members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the reduction of educational supply in the municipalities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u305	Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u306	Thank you very much, Madam President. Counselor, very good morning. They want the political times that you have to answer today to an inquiry about education, which will no longer lead, from the point of view of direct competition. In any case, and regardless of what I planned to say, allow me to recognize you as an education adviser, although we are almost always in disagreement because, of course, it is part of the political role, but, in any event, I wish you every luck of success in your new responsibilities. Having said this, our interpellation, first of all, referred to the situation that emerged in August at the CRA The Picaraña, of Ponteareas, although, as you suppose, I will refer to other matters, not in a spirit of exhaustive examination and take it in some denial to which I cannot answer, but to show what are the incidences that were detected at the beginning of this course. You, of course, manifest the start of the course with total normality, but I have to say that if you're producing a chain of microseisms, if you allow me to use this geological simile. The problem with microseisms is that each individual is not serious enough, but together they can produce the breakdown of a structure. And, in this case, since our parliamentary group, we believe that the start of this course, far from starting normally, presents important things. As I said, in the case of CRA The Picaraña, of Ponteareas, you published, in the reduction or modification of units of primary and child education centres and special education, the reduction of a child education unit in Portela school, the abolition of the San Mateo de Oliveira school and the reduction, as a result of this adjustment of units, of no less than five jobs of teachers and teachers of child education. These changes were made in a context in which this council has invested more than 18 thousand euros in various adaptation and maintenance tasks, in particular, of the San Mateo de Oliveira school in the last three years. And that's despite the fact that, in fact, and recognizing that this school doesn't keep the minimum number of students to run the next course, yes, it would have them in the next course, and, therefore, we get into a dynamic in which, despite knowing that the centers can work again, we close them and obviously — and you know it as well as I do — they never open again. So it's a lack of bet on teaching in rural areas, in this case, in Ponteareas Town Hall. In Round it, in the CEIP of Cedeira, the course's turn began with a series of protests by students, parents, mothers and teachers and teachers for the elimination of the sixth primary education course. A deployment justified on the basis of the number of pupils; a deployment which has been maintained since 2015, when requested by the centre, and which has been granted on the basis of the number of pupils who had special educational needs. In this course, with a total of twenty-six students, it was decided to eliminate this unfoldment in the sixth course. That prompted, among other things, other than the logical protest by the procedure, that these picturesque situations had been given. The photograph is dark, but it also influences in its darkness that pupils and students, mothers and parents, teachers and masters of this center are dressed in black, which has become a real symbol of the protest against the cuts and actions of the People's Party in different areas. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez shows you a photograph of the members of the House.]] Following in the province of Pontevedra, the CEIP Altamira, of Salceda de Caselas, began this course in situations at least -- let's say -- committed, not directly unacceptable. This parliamentary group has already asked in this Parliament — in the committee — about the situation of this school, and they have told us that both the expansion works to be done and the new school dining room met the requirements and were designed to respond to the educational community and its needs in the short term. Obviously, the lack of planning in the execution of the works of this school led, firstly, to the center being forced to reduce attention, to the point where the Centre's Directorate notified parents that they had a reduced schedule to return students to the centre, even if they had to attend a pediatric consultation. I think everyone on this camera knows that mothers and parents take their children to the pediatrician at the time they have that attention, which they can't choose. And so it's really grotesque that an educational center limits the time to return students to the center when they go to pediatric care. But, besides, in the case of the dining room... this is the evidence of what happened on the day of the start of the course in childhood and primary education, this was the state in which were the works of the cassettes where the school dining room is going to work in this school, at CEIP Altamira, of Salceda de Caselas. [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez shows you a photograph of the members of the House.]] I think, frankly, this leaves the Education Council in a very bad place, at least as far as planning works is concerned. In Covelo, also in Pontevedra — it seems that you have some special pollution with this province, I don't know what you will think of the famous Rueda operation for the uprising, the municipal highway, of the People's Party in Pontevedra province — in the case of CEIP Antonio Blanco Rodríguez, you have formed a single group with twenty-one students in the third and fourth primary education, and I wonder who gave that instruction. You've changed the way of facts, and you haven't written new criteria to group students, because the truth is, you start to move a certain impression among the education officials that you're running an apocryphal councillor; that is, they have little tendency to sign things, and, in some cases, almost, almost, scratches, because they have less tendency to write. In the case of Portomarín, in Lugo, who passed from thirty-two to thirty-three students, a master square was eliminated, which logically motivated the protests of parents and mothers of students, who don't understand why with more students they have fewer teachers than the past course. And what am I going to tell you about the problem in the county of Brión? They've been closed for 14 days today, if I don't remember bad. And it's a situation that you don't understand either, which is reduced by three out of ten teachers that the center called for to function normally and with a minimum quality during this course that we started. If all this was little, in a context where the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order — at this moment — has reduced nothing more and nothing less than 2,132 teachers from January 2009 to January 2018 — a reduction that is drawn from official figures, i.e. from the Ministry of Public Administrations, and therefore I suppose that you provide the data correctly — and in case this reduction had been low, you still think that in an absolutely unnecessary way and sometimes lacking an objective criterion. In school luncheons we have the ploughed press of news about the particular company I refuse to mention in this parliament, although it has been cited in an initiative that presented the Nationalist Block Galego in Commission 4a. You have a company that now turns out you don't have enough material to prepare the meals, and when you prepare sandwiches, send them — it seems — in the middle of the ride and in the cab. Counsellor, taxi meals in the 21st century!, transferring food to schoolchildren. It is true that you imposed penalties on him, but we believe, frankly, that the performance of this company gives to take some more severe action. The cafes of the institutes of this autonomous community, which in many cases are the place where the student eats because he does not have a dining room, turns out — although they have already been warned that we are going to take an initiative to the Commission next 4th – are unadjudicated; most of them do not work because they have a problem of adjudication. And don't tell me it's a contract law problem because it's a planning problem. I mean, if we know that we're going to have to run a plan, how come we don't do it in enough time? And all of this — as I said before — reveals that there is a lack of support, of impulse, of teaching, especially in the rural media, which are the ones who suffer all these beings that I have just told them. And that, despite the fact that this parliamentary group brought up a non-law proposal for you to implement operations to re-define in a consensual way, as we asked at the time: not with what the Bloc had said, nor in Marea, neither the PSdeg nor the People's Party, but with a consensus on the need to guarantee an effective educational service in this autonomous community. So, in short, do you consider that these kinds of actions you've been doing your advice are compatible and consistent with repeating permanently that this is the legislation of rural life? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u307	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez. Mr. Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u308	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth, sir, is that I also thank you for your words. I believe that the important thing in the political struggle, in the sense of the word, is the discrepancy of ideas and the establishment of alternative models between two ways of interpreting and seeing problems and solving them. This has nothing to do with any kind of pollination, neither personal nor human, simply that there are different ways of seeing how one should act in a matter and apply it in the best possible way. Obviously, I'm still here today as a councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary ordination, and what I'm going to say is you can be quite sure that any government member would say it too or that I would say it also to the new person who's going to incorporate into this supreme responsibility, because if of something you can boast this government is to be a compact government, a government that has a criterion, a government that has a great leader and a government that knows and wants to do things right. So don't worry about it because the person who will have the high responsibility to manage the education of this country will practically tell you what I'm going to tell you in this case. [[Applause]] Certainly, Mr President, your oral exposition has little to do with what you are on the initiative. You practically here made the narrative of a series of aspects without entering into the specific question of what you were going to talk about, in which you here raised a specific case: the case of Ponteareas. Of course, with regard to Parliament, I am going to focus primarily on the Ponteareas case, but I think that, in the end, this case is extrapolable to the rest of the cases you have said. I am grateful for the opportunity you have to say with total intensity that the beginning of this year's academic course has developed with enormous normality and tranquility. And, of course, I leave this responsibility with great satisfaction, with great satisfaction for leaving the education system — because the beginning of the course is always a moment of great tension — with the tranquillity that exists at this time and, above all, with the good dynamics of education in this country. We understand that the quality of education is clearly guaranteed, that education equity is also guaranteed, that there is adequate attention for all students, that there is a sufficient framework of teaching staff, and obviously everyone will understand that it is absolutely impossible that there are zero incidences at the beginning of the course. But if you raise your focus a little bit and you see on scale the start of this year's course, just like the previous years, you'll really realize that the incidences are absolutely smaller. I'm talking scale and I'm talking proportionality. You mentioned here one, two, three, four, five, six cases. There's something else you haven't mentioned, but I quote if you want... there's something else. But you compare -- part of it, you think it's math, if I don't remember it -- you compare what ten cases are, many of them already solved by the Inspection Service, with a thousand. So you'll realize that between ten cases where there may be some conflict, and a thousand educational centers that started the academic course without any problem, there's at least one intended exaggeration to try to draw a picture that doesn't exist. And that, really, leaves him in the wrong place. Because if you quantify the enormous dimensions of the education system — around four hundred thousand Thursdays, around a thousand educational centers, thirty thousand professionals... — and you are talking to me about six, seven, ten cases, I should clearly conclude that it is a course of course that is absolutely quiet, absolutely quiet and absolutely normal. [[Applause]] Obviously, if we take the specific case and turn it into generality, we may come to think that the system began with difficulty, but you know perfectly well that it is not so, especially when compared to previous years: five, six, seven, eight years ago, when it ruled the Bipartite and the incidences filled pages of newspapers every day. You're also talking to me about a series of issues that I would like to clarify, so that there's no doubt about Gescor. From Gescor is immediately solving a question that is not the responsibility of the Educational Administration, but that a company that has a legally fined contract has an internal problem, and this week the new companies will start — not doubt — because we have the ability to, when there is a problem in a company that provides catering, solve it without any problems. As for the cafes, you absolutely minimize a question that is of great relevance. We're talking about the new contract law, which enters in March, which requires a renewal of existing contracts, and we're talking about 200 and 50 administrative procurement files. And if you pose as a big educational problem that the cafes are going to be closed -- some of them already open this week, 50 percent will open this week, and the rest next week -- and for six or ten days you can't have coffee in the educational centers, I think it's the best symptom that things started well and they're going along the way. In the specific case you quote — let me refer to him because he is in the explanatory statement and we must respect Parliament — he speaks of a unitary school in Ponteareas that has closed with three students. That's not a whim, but it's the simple fact that there's a very low birthrate and a very low birthrate. Look, by March, the inspector had met with her parents, the three families, to tell them that the educational center, if it hadn't reached the average number of six students, would have shut down. It was like this. In the ordinary registration period — in June — three students were enrolled, and in July — as you well know why they have done so — the elimination of that unit is reported. And it gives the feeling that he took it by surprise — in this case the Socialist Party, also to the parties in Ponteareas and families, but the families were perfectly advised — but that same school, in 2009, the Bipartite wanted to close it with six students and, in fact, there is a notice of closure of that same school with six students. And now we seem to miss it when, with three, it closes. That's what we can call double measuring stick, we can call it weak memory or fish memory, we can call it whatever we want, but the Socialist Party brings this case to this chamber is really very significant, either with little memory or trying, somehow, to generate a problem where there is no such problem. Obviously, these students don't seem to be homeless, because they don't seem to be schooled; they're going to an educational center that's less than two kilometers away, and Ponteareas has a good education system. Some data, simply: since 2009 there have been more than seven million investments in the county of Ponteareas. There are around 300 teachers — specifically three hundred forty-nine — and a cost in payrolls around thirteen million. There are over 40 transport routes around 1.2 million. Dining Service: Reaches around forty commensals. I mean, you're talking here about a series of criticisms: that if there were cuts, that if the rural was dismantled, that if the educational offer was reduced... I would ask you to explain to us in your replica how this is possible, which is now done with a demographic situation of three students, you wanted to do it with six. And it had to be at that time the Town Hall, which was governed by the People's Party, and it had to be at that time in Union, which began to be governed by the People's Party, which prevented this school from closing with six students; and not any other school, this school that is now closed because it has three students. Apart from that, I think you will agree with me if we talk about that education at those ages has a double role: values, knowledge, etc. must be transmitted, but it also has a value for girls, children and girls to socialize, and, with three students, a unitary school can hardly fulfil the socializing role it must have. In any case, you only put this case here; in general, in debates, it is said that classes are closed, that they are grouped, that there are groupings, but I also say: in certain areas yes, because demographic dynamics requires. It's not a cause, it's a consequence of demographic dynamics. But I also say, "Why don't you talk about unfoldings?" Why don't you talk about the new educational centers that open up this course? For example, an IES in Soutomaior; for example, a CEIP in Culleredo; for example, very powerful enlargements that will develop in Ames, on King's Hill and elsewhere. Because, really, it looks like you just see a face of the coin, and what you have to do is adjust resources based on service needs and demographic needs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u309	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u310	Indeed, in some rural areas, unfortunately and as a result of the demographic situation, it is necessary to make groupings, it is necessary to do some kind of measures like closing a unit, but you talk and see it together: in the peri-urban areas of Galicia there are opening educational centers, an institute, a school, they are doing unfolding and large expansions in peri-urban municipalities of our cities. Why? Because that's where the population pressure is right now. With which, I don't think it's good to move to society...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u311	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u312	...... yes, finished, Mr. President—a negative image. Above all, as in this case, the Socialist Party should have a little more memory and know that no other school, this particular school, you, with six students — twice as many as there are — had it closed in 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u313	Thank you very much. You have the floor, in the replica shift, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u314	Thank you, President. Counsellor, you have quoted several times in your speech about Parliament and the procedure we have established, and I will also tell you that I and you answer. [[Applause]] I don't have to answer what you're asking me to. You're here as a defendant and therefore also with regard to this parliament, things work like this. Look: I'm sure the new -- looks like -- education advisor will tell us the same thing as you, but the problem isn't the same thing; that's what they say, it's what they always say. And with regard to what you said that, in fact, in our initiative there was only one centre: of course, the initiative was registered precisely to be able to make an inquiry at the beginning of the course, in August, and this is what is called, in parliamentary terms — in this parliament — to make a Fernández Prado; that is to say, to come here and make a GNP on the AVE and talk about motorways. Well, it's infrastructure, it's true! And this is also all educational centers. I didn't tell you about any health centers; therefore, they allow me a license to make a Fernández Prado. If you don't like it, I'm sorry, but it's also part of the parliamentary freedom we have. Look, you said there was enough teaching staff. Well, "that's enough teaching staff," after reducing, as I told you earlier -- and they're official data -- 2,132 teachers in ten years, I don't know what it means. Of course, from the point of view of the dialectical-propagandistic strategy of the People's Party, "we will do more with less" is understandable. The less they have, the more they will do, using that same argument; therefore, they must continue to reduce the number of classes, they must continue to reduce the number of teachers, because so they will reach the sum of educational quality. You said there were more centers. Yes, of course! There's one, for example, in Lalin, which you suppose you also know, with some other problem at the start of the course. There is an impassioned opening of authorities—how it must be, of course!—in Soutomaior, although the centre was not fully functioning in some services. And then you tell me that you can't have coffee in a high school is the most serious problem I've ever said. No, I talked about eating, not that the student or the teacher can't have coffee. However, in a serious and responsible government, in a meta-prepared administration — as is the case — that had caught them in a waiver of the entry into force in March of the new Contract Law, knowing that you had to process two hundred and fifty-five dossiers, it strongly draws attention. Look, the question is that you don't understand what you ask them, or they understand it and they don't care, which is much worse. Our initiatives — I believe that we even share this philosophy with other opposition groups: the Nationalist Block Galego and En Marea — are because we believe that another model is possible; another model of attention, a priority model of rural school; of sufficient means; of keeping it in working conditions, with a lower number of students. Because, of course, knowing -- that you know it as well as I do, or probably better by your conferences with other autonomous communities -- that that established ratio is not something unalterable -- it's not the pi number or the gold number -- that is, it's an amount that you can discount, we can say that we keep a unitary school in operation with five students, with four, with three or two. It's a matter of political bet, and that's why our question, our question, our question, is whether you think it's consistent with this whole cut-off of incidences, reduction of services in rural areas, demonstrating that it's the legislation of rural areas. Because, as you know perfectly well, education service is an essential service to maintain population, along with others that are also essential. It's not the only one, but it's essential. And so, to the extent that we are unable to reach a political commitment from a country to preserve rural school in conditions other than what it is now, we can reduce ourselves to a merely arithmetic issue of numbers. And for that -- I've told you one thing -- there's no need for inspectors to analyze the ratios of the centers, not even a counselor or education advisor, because by putting the number of students on the machine we already know, applying the corresponding parameters, how many teachers and teachers have to have. But you know perfectly well that that's not a serious bet on the maintenance of the countryside of our autonomous community, so in need of fixing the population, and so in need of maintaining the education services in this case. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u315	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez. The councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, Mr. Román Rodríguez, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u316	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Álvarez, I didn't ask you, I was just asking you a rhetorical question, a very simple question, and it was that you told me how you might now question that a unit school is closed with three students and, a few years ago, you closed the same unitary school with six. Same thing. It is not an interpellation, it is a reasoning — in some way — rhetorical, but which is used to put them before you in the mirror of your contradiction and in the mirror of your frankly weak speech, and which somehow does not answer or is not based on arguments — let's say — solvents. I insist on what I said before, and I repeat it again; it is impossible zero incidences. Impossible, absolutely impossible. Now, the existence of three, four, five, ten specific cases, which are obviously very important to the people who are in that process, does not invalidate the general vision. Because we're talking about a question of scale, of proportionality, and we can't compare two or three cases — which are the ones that are currently latent, but that are being solved in the first days of the course, as always done and resolved, by course, thanks to the good work of the inspection services and the good work of the management teams — in the whole of the education system with a thousand, and reaching the conclusion that it is dismantling, that there is abandonment, etc. It's absolutely disproportionate and doesn't make any sense. You talk here about serious and responsible government regarding cafes, and I'm going to tell you that it's absolutely serious and responsible. I'm going to tell you why: because the contract law is for the entire state and the only autonomous community that started this process was Galicia, and the rest of the autonomous communities — many of them governed by the Socialist Party — are in a situation of at least an allegation. And, as there's a problem in the school cafeteria network, there's going to be a lot of problems, and then there's no seriousness or responsibility; there's passatism. And here's what's done and if you're doing it's a process that's solved this week, that's going to start working in the cafeterias this week, and some are going to start next week. It is also true that some have been deserted because of the lack of bidders, but they really are — let's say — in accordance with the State Contracts Act. And you tell me that the autonomous community of the Socialist Party has regulations like having school cafeterias. I hope nothing happens, but like there's some kind of problem in one of these cafes -- between you and me -- we'll talk about it. Obviously you're telling us that another model is possible. And I say yes, I'm sure other models are possible. The thing is to know which ones. Because if you talk to me about rural education and talk to me about the autonomous communities of the Socialist Party, Andalusia, at best, you might think that you're better at the Andalusian rural than the German rural, you can think about it. It's wrong, huh? It's absolutely wrong. Or you might think that it's better to model that of the Bipartite, that of caring for rural school in the Bipartite, and that's where we've been won. Actually, in the Bipartite, you won us, because you were closing schools together with nine and more students. And they were able to close twenty-nine unit schools in one year. That's where we got won. [[Murmurs.]] If that's your model, let us disagree and let us have another one. And, look, I think Galicia has a magnificent educational system, which has a great advantage: not only has it improved considerably in quality in recent years — which it has done, according to all educational results — but also in equity and the ability to give equal opportunities. And all the studies tell us that there is virtually no difference between public and concerted educational institutions. And there's no difference between the educational centres that are in urban areas or those that are in rural areas. Moreover, if one compares certain indicators — for example, mid-terms of selectivity, or any other indicator — we will see that education centres in rural areas have at least as good or as better indicators — in many cases better than those in urban centres. That doesn't mean urban centers are bad, no. They're both at a very similar level. There are also worse educational centers in urban and rural areas, but there is a balance that allows a guarantee, guarantees equal opportunities, and that's a very positive thing. There's a lot of multilingual centers in rural areas. There's a lot of multilingual centers. There are a lot of centers that are betting on innovation, lots of centers that are being put into the digital book, lots of centers that have all the complete digital services, lots of centers that have free configuration subjects in very good state, with innovation projects and top-level teaching products, which have all the complementary services in perfect line — eater, transport — and that they have, too, educational ratios very well below those of urban centers; it's true, too, by probably demographic situation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u317	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u318	But to say that rural education in Galicia is worse or bad compared to urban education is, frankly, to miss the truth. Because if we can assume something in Galicia is to have a harmonic system as a whole, with no social or territorial differences, and that's not what this advisor says, who's going to stop stamping tomorrow, that tells us the basic educational indicators that have statistics made by the ministry, made by international bodies, and that's something we must be quite proud of.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u319	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u320	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u321	Thank you very much. We suspended the session until sixteen hours and thirty minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u322	Good afternoon. We resumed the session. Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and five other members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the environmental situation of the Umia River
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u323	Mrs Prado has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u324	Good afternoon to all and to all. And very late, Mrs. Mato. I don't know very well what to call him, counselor for an hour or former counselor; I don't know very well what to call him. I'm not going to fall into hypocrisy... I'm not going to fall into the hypocrisy of wishing you the best in your new stage, because the best thing I want is for the BNG project and Paco Jorquera, who leads you in the Coruña. [[Murmurs.]] Then, of course, I won't want you. And I also hope that this somewhat rare situation today, this communication of government cessations and so on in the middle of a parliamentary session, did not dissuade you from answering this question of your order, at least for now. Today the BNG comes here to interview you as environmental officer with regard to the concordion in the Umia River, the basse choir, in Caldas de Reis. A pledge that has been, from the very beginning, built on a huge lie. It was a cluster of disincentives: there has never been any justification for building this coronation; there has never been a justification for the public utility in which the Government of the Union and the People's Party masked themselves to do so. The encouragement was a fraud justified in the need for water supply to Salnés, when the uptake to Salnés is made river after the cheer; justified to regulate the fillings, when a very important part of the problem of the fillings are of Humia fluents poured into the Humia after where the cheer is. It didn't serve any purpose for those who said it was the encouragement, because the goal was never to solve any of these problems. The goal has always been to build the encouragement to facilitate the business through the concession of hydroelectric exploitation. The only end was the private business and, in return, they created a public health problem, an environmental problem, and they killed the Umia River. The encouragement didn't solve the problems they said it was going to solve and if it created problems, and serious. He didn't avoid any of the problems and, on the other hand, if he created new problems, like the invasion of his waters with the microcystis aeruginosa algae, that is, the Microcystis. Every year since the construction of the coronation, the waters of the river cover it, a hard to detect toxin, hard to eliminate and with cumulative effects. The World Health Organization warns that, even in small doses, it causes significant health damage: for the liver, for the liver system in general, intestinal problems, in the central nervous system, in the nervous system in general, it is the driver of tumor processes... therefore, the presence in the water of this bacteria in any amount, but more being in important amounts such as those accumulated in this affection, should be the object of concern and occupation of the Union and of you in this case as responsible. It's a problem that repeats year after year, but more than the Board has not dealt with and, of course, has not solved it. And this summer the cheer of Caldas is suffering once again the invasion of this algae. This year, in addition to the issue of which it was detected very early; the alert was detected by its very early counsellorship, in particular, on July 6. This bottle you see here is fresh, it's today, it's a bottle of water picked up today in the morning in the coronation of Caldas by our spokesperson, by the spokesperson of BNG in Caldas, Manuel Fontán, who brought it here today, to Parliament, so that we could all see what the situation is in the coronation of Umia, of the water in particular. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Mrs. Prado Colors marks a bottle of water that you put on the floor]] Then I have pictures of what the situation is there because, at least because of the information we have, you officially haven't come near and you don't have that information anyway. They detected this alert for the bloom of cyanobacteria on July 6, and according to the information hung on the board's own page, since mid-August, there have been detected the presence of cyanobacteria at all points of sampling that the Counsellor has in Umia: at the sampling point of Low-Press, Low-Cla, Segade, Rabunade, Ponte Baion and Ponte Arnelas; at the six points. Despite this warning on the part of the Galician Union, as responsible for the problem, the question would be: what did you do? And the answer is very simple: nothing. The answer is nothing. He won't go with us and we disagree. A total abandonment of Umia; declaring alert and disengagement of the problem. They did not take any measure to protect the population that consumes this river below or the population that has been bathing in the river until the BNG asked for explanations, denounced the situation and made a press round on 28 August. So on August 29th, Galician Union sent a communication to the Caldas Town Hall that it had to ban the bathroom. Since mid-August all these pick-up points — as I said — are positive in cyanobacteria. It turns out that at the pickup points from Segade, Rabunade, Ponte Baion and Ponte Arnelas there is water uptake for the consumption of the entire population of Salnes, more than one hundred and twenty thousand people. And despite what Mr Trenor said this morning here, there is no system of filtering or debugging, except chlorination, only chlorination; with which, only chlorination. I mean, more than one hundred and twenty thousand people consume that water and it's only given chlorine, no protective system. And, of course, we don't know that there's absolutely nothing in mind about the assumption that the bacterium becomes a major problem. We don't know there's any kind of measure if the matter goes too far and we have to cut the supply. Of course, at the BNG we don't give it as normal that every summer is given this same risk situation, especially after promising solutions and investing millions of euros, more than twenty-two million euros in that integral plan for the Umia River Basin, that Umia Plan which, as we were told, would be definitive for this eutrophication problem. And after these actions came those urgents that were going to solve the problem: the Eucalyptus bark, the control of wells and spills in Umia would also give solution. Harmful actions with the overthrow of public funds and without the slightest problem solved. They built an unnecessary encouragement, without justification; they turned a clean river alive into a green lodazal — as we can see — a focus of potential pollution, a public health problem, an environmental problem; they killed the Umia River only to facilitate the business to a private company. Of course, in the face of this situation, today what we want to ask you, Mrs. Mato, is next. All technicians, all experts say that, while there is encouragement, the problem of cyanobacteria will persist, the public health problem will persist and the environmental problem and the problem in the Umia River, which is one of the most polluted rivers and with more problems of the rivers we have in Galicia. So, what we want to ask you is whether you are going to dismantle the encouragement from Low because — I insist — all technicians and experts say that this is the only solution. We asked whether it was necessary to provide effective measures of protection against microcystin — at least carbon filters — to water-clearing stations for both the consumption of Gates and the Salnes Mancommunity, which — I insist — provide nearly one hundred and fifty thousand people usually, a population that will be doubled in the summer, and can be doubled — I insist — in all the municipalities of Salnes; and it is considered that the population is protected and informed. We'd like to be answered by the Galician Union, which is responsible for the problem. Because if the Umia River has a problem, it is responsible for the Board of Galicia for allowing to build a cheer despite all the negative reports, for having no justification and for solving absolutely no problem. Look, the leaders of the Galician Union in the province of Pontevedra said in front of the media that the quality of the water is perfect.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u325	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u326	So, I want to ask you today in the name of all the neighbors, these one hundred and fifty thousand neighbors of the district of Salnes, of the municipalities of Caldas, Cuntis, Moraña and Doors, is whether you consider this water, which is of the refreshment of Umia, taken today morning and which comes to the houses only after passing a process of chlorination, is apt and that there is no problem, and if you would drink it, you would consume it, cook and wash with it only after a process of chlorination had passed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u327	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u328	And so I can do the test at home...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u329	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Response from the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u330	Good afternoon to all. President, Mrs Prado, allow me to take advantage of this intervention and a few minutes of this interpellation, if it is up to you, to thank you and also to comment on something with all of you. I'd like to take advantage of this, since this is the last intervention I have as advisor to the Government of Galicia, to say it was a real honor to work and serve Galicia. I say it because I am convinced that we can all feel it as representatives of the Greek people, and I as one of the people elected by President Alberto Núñez Feijóo to almost, after ten years, be in his government. I'm especially honored to have your trust, but what enriches me, if any, was to have the opportunity to serve and be useful to all the Greeks and all the Greeks. And what I would also like to say is that I think there's no greater satisfaction, and, if it fits, the biggest challenge I have now to face is to be the mayor of the town of Coruña. [[Applause]] And I also want to thank all Members and all Members, if I may allow the President one minute more, I would like to thank you very much. I have been a Member since 2005, for 13 years, in addition to the years I have been an advisor; I think that in some ways, more than others, I have had the opportunity to speak on more than one occasion, and even to work. There is even a member of the opposition board who reminded me that he had to leave the honourable Member's suit and not be so dialectically "solute" as a councilman — do not put his head down, Abel. But, well, the truth is I did what I thought I had to do, and I want to thank you all. [[Laughter]] I dismiss myself as counsellor, but I remain in the Chamber and, once again — and like all of you — representing Galicia and doing the greatest for Galicia, in this case by getting the best for the city of Coruña. And now yes, already giving answers to Mrs. Prado, I do wish you the best. In the staff, I wish you the best, and also in the politician; in their turn, I wish you the best. [[Mr Mato Otero points to the opposition bench.]] Focusing on the subject of the inquiry, and since I'm still a counselor until tomorrow, I'd like to stress that it's important to speak rigorously. I don't think it's any good to regret a performance that was done about thirty years ago, or about thirty years ago; I think it's not worth talking now about the razor that was the highway; it's not worth talking about now about an act that, as I say, is almost about the Tutankamón era and that, however, now it takes us all here to talk about whether I care about it or not. I think the most important thing is not to alarm, the most important thing is to give the neighbors and neighbors of all these municipalities of Caldas, Cuntis, Moraña and Portas the calm and the assurance that that water they drink in their houses doesn't come out of the color of that water that stopped me giving the lady in that bottle. He doesn't get to his houses with that color; of course, he comes with the highest assurance of health, which is what the Government of Galicia does. With the information we handle and all the analyses that are being done, we are absolutely sure that we are not, as you say, faced with a serious public health problem and, of course, we are not faced with a situation of extreme toxicity. I think this is the most important thing, because it's not good for anyone to be alarming; it's not good for anyone to make a plot and give messages that are catastrophic to the population when there's no reason. For our part, what we're doing is working to reduce that problem by applying the protocols that have been in place for eleven years to fight cyanobacteria in the reservoirs. As I'm sure you already know, the state of Caldas' encouragement is not a new situation, it's not the first time it happens, nor is it the first time it registers. Every summer — and I am speaking since 2006 — is the same with greater or lesser intensity: there are proliferations of cyanobacteria which, in this case, correspond mostly to the genus Microcystis. This proliferation is the result of a process that is a natural process, very common in water that is stagnant and common in summer and autumn times, as well as in early autumn, due to the increase in light hours and the rise of temperatures. It's true that we are facing a risk situation and what we have to do is prevent and reduce the possibility of the appearance of the toxin. But this is not an exclusive thing of the Low, but it's a common situation in the Greek embassies, both of our demarcation and of the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation. This is something that all of us and all of you can check in real time on the information provided through the website of the Galician Environmental Information System, where it says that today like this cheer there are four other reservoirs that are in the same situation in Galicia-Costa, and are not generating in the rest of the packages any kind of alarm as is being done in this. We are following strictly the protocols established, and since 2007 we have launched a protocol for the collaboration of the Environmental Council, through the Galician Waters and the Environment Laboratory, and also in the Health Council. This is a comprehensive control action programme that is based on guidelines that mark the World Health Organization, which was improved and simplified in 2012 and which allows for the unification of criteria and coordination of efforts among all, thus improving actions to make them more effective. In this protocol, the tasks of each are clearly defined. On the one hand, the Environment Laboratory performs the continuous and periodic control of all supply arrangements. The objective of this laboratory is to get that early detection of the occurrence of cyanobactories. Galician waters are responsible for detecting the proliferation of cyanobacteria in cours and for transferring the results to the Health Council and also to the management companies. And the health is for you to monitor the health of the chorus and activate the treatments to eliminate the toxins, if they are detected, as well as inform the municipalities and organisms of the water potability basin. There are two different levels from that when it comes to the packaging situation: on the one hand there is the classification of normality and on the other hand the alert classification; I'm not going to say the number of cianobacterial cells that have to exist because they are very technical terms, which I think in any technical document they can find. In the case of the Baxe embassies, so today I'm asked, the alert status was decreed last July 6, the date on which the first analyses that exceed the levels set are certified. So what this means is that a more intense control is done from that moment on. Since this activation, weekly samples are being performed at different points of the booster both to determine the levels of cyanobacteria and to analyze whether or not there is a toxin. These analyses make it clear that the situation at stake is not a threat to public health. In short, Mrs. Prado, current concentrations are not worrying and show, in the case of the prey today, a clear downward trend. We are faced with a situation that occurs almost every summer and, as I say, not exclusively in that spirit. You are periodically recording with greater or lesser intensity, and -- I'm telling you -- it's something this year is happening, but it happened in years like the year 2008, when the proliferation figures of cyanobacteria were even higher; in 2010, in 2011... even last year were higher than this year. I would also like to take advantage of a clarification that I believe is key to two terms that are used too lightly and that, in some ways, what they do is confuse. We have to differentiate between the microcystis cyanobacteria, which is the one that's being recorded in Umia, and the microcystin toxin, which is the one generated by some cyanobacteria. And it is also necessary to have a very clear thing: that there is a proliferation of cyanobacteria is not synonymous with the presence of toxins, and I can assure you, Mrs. Prado, that there has never been — and I repeat: never — toxins have been detected; in no year since we have records — in no summer, nor in this one — no toxin has been detected. Therefore, one cannot speak in any case of toxicity and alarm citizenship in the coronation, because there is — I insist — no danger to public health. We are faced with a problem that is recurrent, in the time that I have left; then in the last term I will try to move everything we have been doing from the Unity of Galicia to this day. But let me make it clear — that it is the most important thing for me — that there is no risk of public health and that there is no very serious toxicity, because until now Caldas' cyanobacteria have never been toxic. Therefore, the use of water for consumption is guaranteed. It is true that we are talking about a risk which, in addition to being known, is being studied and, above all, for what is being done. So it's not about not minimizing it, but yes, of course, not alarming the population. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u331	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u332	Carai! Not to be toxic that quickly made her get out of the way, perhaps, Counselor. By the way! I'm quiet now, as it happens in other places and not only in Umia, oh! then we're all quiet. It's a bad thing that happens elsewhere, so let's do nothing. Because you're the message, Mrs. Mato, that we don't do anything, and at the moment of the problem, we'll see. I'm telling you there's a question: there's a cyanobacteria and that cyanobacteria can cause the problem, right? There's no such mutation at the moment, we don't know why, but it can happen at any time. And the point is that mechanisms are planned to act, protect or prevent all that population from running out of drinking water. That is what we are asking you, what protection and action measures are planned. Because what I'm telling you is that throughout the Salnes Commonwealth, in all the municipalities of Salnes, there is absolutely no filter or protection mechanism for the fact that this situation happens, despite the fact that you promised it and that they said that within this Plan Umia would be the carbon filter system in the Salnes Mancommunity Debugger. He never knew again. And before that, you say: no, no; if the problem comes, we'll look at what we're going to do. Well, fantastic! Look, who's the alarm? I'm saying if you don't have coordination between the councils. This is an official letter from the Health Council that sent to the Town Hall of Caldas, and here it says they hang it up, they warn the population and put this on: "It is recommended not to bathe or perform water activities. Danger. The presence of toxic cyanobacteria." [[Mr Prado Colors shows a document to the House.]] This is from the Health Council, Mrs. Mato. Who's the alarm, or BNG? It's the Junta himself who said if he had made this public, that he had warned the population. The presence of toxic cyanobacteria. I'm saying this because there seems to be some coordination problem, and I don't know who's alarming you. [[Mr Prado Cores gives the document to the President.]] What is clear is that the chascarrills to climb back to the middle Plistocene remain very well, but — I insist — all experts say that it is not only possible, but that it is recommended that Umia's encouragement is dismounted, because it is the only solution to recover the health of the Umia river and the only solution for there to be no cyanobacteria. Don't say BNG, all experts say it. Apart from it is viable and possible. Because, in addition, that encouragement did not solve any problems at all; it created problems for the river: it created a public health problem and created an environmental problem. The Umia River is wounded in death because of that problem, a problem just to give business to a company. That, by the way, Mrs. Mato, if you don't answer today, I hope you leave your duties for your replacement. Is it true that the employer has, at least three years without paying the canon or what it owes him for that concession? Is it true that in addition to creating a problem to give business to this businessman it turns out that, above all, he's not paying what he had to pay? Is it true that in the years he's been making profits and that now that he doesn't seem profitable to him it turns out that he's not paying? And if that's true, what are you doing at the Council to claim that money from this businessman? We'd like to clear up these issues because, besides creating a problem, besides that the neighbors can't enjoy the river or stop being very afraid of that water -- obviously you won't have any problems, but I'd like to know if you with that kind of water would bathe or do any kind of activity with it -- it turns out that you're having a business and it turns out that, above all, that company doesn't pay the Junta or the cannon to the municipalities that had to pay them. All a real business for the businessman, of course, for the neighbors there or for the whole of the Greeks and the Greeks. What is clear is that they masked a private business as a public entity and paid it with public funds. It is time to put an end to the disincentive which means the encouragement of Umia, Mrs Mato, honourable Members and Members of the People's Party. The Union and the People's Party have created the problem and they have to solve it. One hundred and fifty thousand neighbors, their health and health of Umia must be on top of the business of a concessionary company, as much as you — know why — do so much to protect that business that, above all, does not pay the cannon or what it owes to the public buildings. Of course, we don't want a river of green and polluted waters, we want a clean river of transparent waters, and we want Galicia's board to do what needs to be done, which is, first, to put the interests of the population above a private business. I did -- and it's written --
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u333	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u334	...all a series of questions about a series of considerations. Mrs. Mato, I understand that today is not the best day to come to answer, but if you don't answer them today, I would ask you to leave them to your replacement, to leave it as your duty, for during your stage in front of the Environmental Counsellor, you haven't solved the problem of Humia's encouragement. A serious problem with alarm, because neighbors and neighbors are alarmed by the situation of having a green river, with those waters that I bring you here today. And since you haven't solved it, at least give priority to the person who's going to occupy the Council that solves the problem of Humia's encouragement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u335	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Closure of the interpeleration, Environmental Adviser and Territory Planning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u336	Thank you, President. Mrs Prado, of course, the Government of the Galician Union always puts above the general interest and interest of the population, and more in the case of issues — in this case — as serious as public health. We are, as I said in the first part, faced with a problem that is recurrent, but for which we have already got controls and measures that are protocolised. In addition, in the last decade, we have launched a series of measures that are intended to combat this situation, of which I will realize. We have developed a series of studies in order to determine the possible causes of this contribution of nutrients to the coronation and, therefore, that proliferation of cyanobacteria; we have analyzed different issues, such as the temporal evolution of vegetation coverage and soil use, as well as erosion, the study of conservation of the river forest, the evolution of the quality of the waters of the coroner, the discharges that are being given in the area and how the purification and sanitation systems work in the basins that are being poured into the coroners. This work, in some ways, allows us to know that those responsible for the main nutrient approaches to coronation are basically three: the deficiencies in sanitation, the influence of agricultural activity and the absence of coastal forest. From this basis concrete measures are taken in different areas. In the dam operating regime, making every year adequate support management to try to keep their level on a given quota, with the aim of minimizing the impact of the proliferation of cyanobacteria. In Caldas' potabilization plant, providing it with a new catchment and a deposit that enabled them to optimize their operation, for which we invested in the year 2012 six hundred and fifty thousand euros. In the improvement of sanitation and debugging infrastructures, with the improvement of the expansion of the Cuntis EDAR, new separate sanitation networks in rural areas of the county of Cuntis, Moraña and Caldas de Reis and the maintenance of EDAR and sanitation networks in the vicinity of this coronation, with an investment of more than 1.3 million euros. And in the control of spill points, through the Galician Water Control Plan, which allowed the inventory of twenty-four spill points, of which, today, there are only three assets that correspond to operating problems in Caldas, Cuntis and Moraña Town Councils purification systems. I believe that this is part of the work and part of the commitment that we have to guarantee from this government what it said, that it is to keep 100 percent informed of the population and, of course, its representatives and mayors, and, above all, to ensure that water health that allows them to make a daily life, as they are doing today. I insist: it's not a single thing of this encouragement, I welcome what seems to be a special theme for the Nationalist Block of Wales for almost thirty years. There are more encouragements in our community and, today, there are four exhortations that are experiencing a circumstance similar to that of this encouragement also because of the proliferation of cyanobactories, but it is not happening — unlike this one — the alarm generated with interest. With regard to this encouragement, which, as I said, is almost thirty years old, is under arrest performing an important rolling function on the avenues of the river Umia. In fact, it is possible to reduce one-eight percent of the peak tails of the avenue, thereby decreasing something important, which is the risk of crushing, as well as the disturbances and damage in the water areas below the dam. And when we talk about this reservoir, we must remember that it also has a clearly social impact through this concession of this hydroelectric, because it must be remembered that thanks to this agreement — an agreement we have with the Deputy of Pontevedra, the waters of Galicia and the municipalities of Caldas, Cuntis and Moraña — one can afford a convention each year of about four hundred thousand euros, which is precisely intended for sociocultural activities. So, we are in a process — I repeat — of course, a phenomenon of proliferation of cyanobacteria in the bottle that is characterized by its natural dynamism, and since the Galician Union we have been keeping an eye on this evolution with the controls that are already protocolized and that guarantee the health of water, especially the water of consumption, always working in maximum coordination not only with the municipalities, but also with the Health Council, and of course doing the analyses of the way in which they have to be done, which is with the technicians. There are no such serious public-environmental health problems you're talking about. The population is clearly informed and protected against water consumption and, in fact, the waters are being treated in front of cyanobacteria. And I repeat: in the cyanobacteria, not in the toxin. There's no toxin, there's no toxin, there's no toxin, and that's why I ask them, above all, to talk about something as important as public health. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u337	Thank you, counselor, luck and health, that's what I wish you. Yes, please, luck and health, that's the best you can wish for. Good luck and health to all, I wish you all too. We move on to the seventh point of the agenda, which is that of questions to the Government. Question by Mr Luís Manuel Álvarez Martínez and three other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the temporal impact it implies, at the end of the events announced in the neighborhood of Residence, in the city of Lugo, the decision of the Union of Galicia to leave without effect the agreements referred to in the backlog of the general pavilion and of the building of the school
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u338	Mr. Álvarez Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u339	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor, Good luck and health at that new stage that you continue, who is the only advisor who, from the very beginning, continues at the end of the day in his responsibility. I also greet Mrs. Mayor of Lugo, Mrs. Lara Méndez, and the municipal government spokesman, Mr. Miguel Fernández, who accompany us. Lugo, this city that is permanently punished by the successive People's Party governments, by the successive governments of Mr. Núñez Feijóo; punished because, obviously, as I am unable to achieve the municipal government, they use strategies of autonomous governments and central governments to leave that city permanently in the limb of abandonment. [[Applause]] What to say about processes like the intermodal of Lugo!, totally laminated between Mr. Rajoy's Government and Mr. Feijó's Government, everyone with their responsibility. We are still not able to know in Lugo what is going to be done at the Junta de Galicia with the part of the bus station that belongs to it, laminated with the San Fernando barracks and the museum of Romanization, laminated with hemodynamics 24 hours, laminated with the area of Tinería, laminated with Plan Paradai — and I can tell you that I know from first hand the lamination that the Plan Paradai entails – and the prodigy is that you present, with great deployment of means, a star project for the former facilities of the old Lugo hospital, of the neighborhood of Residence; neighborhood abandoned by the People's Party successively since the operation of the Lucus Augusti Hospital. You presented this star project for that neighborhood that won't even run the People's Party's own concelers, because you dare not go there: an integral health center, an aeronautical entrepreneurship center for that kind of Cañaveral cable that are riding in the province, a police station, a biomass plant, etc., etc., etc. You have set up an act in which you deliberately confused the party and the government, with a discharge of Members of the People's Party in the Galician Parliament to present a strategic project for a systematic and permanently abandoned neighbourhood. On July 19, 2017, coinciding with this presentation of the Comprehensive Plan for the neighbourhood of Residence, they signed an agreement that meant, among other things, the retrocession to the General Social Security Treasury of certain buildings of the old residence, because it was necessary to change their use, and there they established a maximum period of one month. Even though you spent six months doing what the agreement said you had to do in a month, it turns out that on May 31 -- not with 5% of advertising, because you haven't given any -- you have cancelled these retrocession agreements at the board of directors — without warning -- and it seems that without this downturn you won't be able to do anything there that isn't a health use. That's why I'm asking you, Counsellor: Does this change mean any change in the actions that you're going to carry out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u340	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Answer from the Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u341	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to deal with three issues, but in advance to stress that the procedure we have approved at the Board will essentially speed up and simplify the procedures for the actions that are planned in this neighbourhood of residence in Lugo. As you know, we designed a global project, which consists, first of all, of the first comprehensive health centre in Galicia, of a new socio-sanitary residence, of a new training and employment office, of an enterprise centre in the aeronautics industry and of a biomass distribution plant. That's about the powers we're going to remain with in the autonomous community. The first question I want to explain to you is that we have made this agreement to the central government. The new neighbourhood of Residence, as you well know, that some reference has just made, is one of the biggest urban transformation initiatives we have in Galicia at the moment. This is possible because there is a large hospital, the HULA, which at this time — and what seemed in principle like an ejaculation — turns out to be a great opportunity. The old facilities in that neighborhood of the Residence are taking advantage of them from the Union, and we've done it in a very ambitious way. For this reason we are facing a very complex operation, which is to provide the city of Lugo with this multitude of services, with performances on secret farms and various uses, in which many actors and multiple administrations participate. Well, in order to speed up these actions, I personally called for a meeting with the Central Government, and at its instances we reached an agreement. An agreement which basically allows three questions: forwarding through and agitating the whole procedure, carrying out a demolition by the Board without the need for a prior dossier and reducing the seven capital records provided for only two. Secondly, to explain to you that this decision enables us, in fact, to perform various actions. Last Friday, as you know, we signed with the Town Hall of Lugo the agreement to execute Galicia's first comprehensive health center. He also knows that one day earlier at the Board of Trustees, we authorized the first steps to be taken in the future of the first aeronautics company accelerator — I do not use terms of contempt as Cañaveral cable — linked to the Rozas pole. Thirdly, in addition — and thanks to this decision not to go back yet — in a month and a half we will present the demolition project of the former General Hospital in order to be able to lift up in that space these new services. It's more, thanks to this agreement that we reached with the Central Government, we have assumed from the Union the total demolition of what is the main building of the old General. Then, of course, we will sign that retrocession agreement with the Central Government, reserved for, as you know, the new police station, which is the competence of the Central Executive and which had already compromised the previous PP Government at the central level. And the third question, and taking advantage of which the mayor is here — secondly you have just told him — is that since the Town Hall of Lugo they cooperate and there is no delay, and that they allow us to continue with this strong commitment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u342	Thank you, Counselor, time's up. Thank you. Replica, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u343	Thank you, President. First of all, I didn't use any term of contempt, I was simply referring to making a resemblance to the aeronautical center of Rozas. Secondly, you'll let me tell you that I don't have time to tell you the timing of the processing within the Town Hall of Lugo of that comprehensive health centre project, which you know perfectly - and you will deliberately - that it was efficient, and you know it and you don't say it. Thirdly, and in order to simplify, if this urban transformation initiative — which you have referred to — the largest of all Galicia, required this procedure to end before — which I understand or understand poorly that it will agitate — you will therefore be able to finish everything you would do there first; I understand that it is your commitment to this answer that gives me for the city of Lugo. But if this process was agitating, why didn't you give him publicity? Why did they hide it? Why didn't they tell the citizen: don't worry, that's why we're going to cancel here is because we're going to do it faster? Because Mr. Carballo, candidate of the People's Party for the Mayor of Lugo, was at that moment under-delegated from the Government of Spain in the province; therefore, one of two: either he didn't know what you were doing in your own ministries in Madrid, or he heard and said: this has no good sales, this doesn't look good. It will be more effective — time will tell. In any case, what's clear is that you didn't give him any publicity. You should explain why. And they should stop permanently blaming the Town Hall of Lugo, which has suffered quite historically because of you. You should explain to the citizen that they're going to improve the process and leave that neighborhood perfectly in condition, five months before, one year before, two years before, thanks to that meeting that I suppose there will be some documentary accreditation. Something they would ask you, because I suppose a serious government like you don't move the base of meetings and agreements I'm not saying wrong taken or hidden — don't look at that face — I say that when you come back with a file there will be some documentary support why it was done that way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u344	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Close the question, Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u345	Thank you again, Mr. President. I believe the facts ratify that commitment which the Galician Union has to the city of Lugo and with much of the whole place; allow me to say yes. As you know, the initiative was the Union in all this movement — already over a year ago, when we started talking — and is materialized in the first protocol signed with the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, where all the pieces are essentially contained. As you well know, there are at the same time two types of performances: performances that allow the bidding and posting of the works the better before and for the property performances. And at the moment, there has been a route — the heritage — which I think can be much better surpassed at the moment — so I'm talking about API, where there were seven planned heritage files only two. And what does that allow? This allows for a month and a half to be presented in the Town Hall of Lugo, for which we ask for diligence. I did not make any judgment of value; diligence is the only thing I ask. Just as in July the Integral Health Centre was presented for the work licence, I don't tell the technicians what they have to do; what I ask is diligence, given the size of the performance we're talking about; it's the only thing I ask. Because we fully assumed that in order to make the socio-sanitary residence there is first to knock down where was the old General building, which is the most emblematic part, and the falling part that is going to hit the Integral Health Center that is already presented. So all I ask is diligence. And time will take away or give reasons, but it's not the personal reason. I think we're talking about something very serious, a very complete performance, not only for the modern services we can at the disposal of Lugo's citizenship, not only for that, but because that space is going to be a real space where Lugo's people can live in something that is now closed and that allows that use and permeabilization of citizenship. The only thing we are trying to transmit to you is that, with the utmost diligence, if, apart from the words, we take seriously what we are doing, where we were planning a capital development at the central government itself, because there are several ways of meeting this situation, we proceed to take steps so that as soon as possible we can overthrow, so that the Integrated Centre, the Socio-Health Residence, the Employment and Training Part, and also the Biomass Centre, which also in itself is an example of the much that can be done in the field of renewable energies, in this case in the province of Lugo. So there would be a single piece left, for which I would also ask PSOE to collaborate, by the mayor, to urge the current central government to take seriously the police station too, which would round up everything that is planned. And look at that, if what I just said was consistent with the performances carried out at the time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u346	Thank you, Counselor. Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u347	...the bodies of municipal technicians, we had to prepare a humanistic piece. And so we did, because we have nothing to hide. Therefore, thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u348	Thank you. Question by Mr Martín Fernández Prado and 14 other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, about the development of intermodal stations in the main cities of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u349	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u350	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. In various appearances in this House you have already stated that intermodality is one of the bets of the Greek Government on improving public transport, and, to achieve this, it is working in this direction in the last years, and it is obviously essential for this to coordinate with other administrations. And also — as you have already noted — has reached the Government of Greece for this purpose Community funding. Among the multiple actions of intermodality that the Government is doing — not only these, but, of course, one of the important — is getting that interrelationship or that construction of intermodal stations in our cities. And it's also known the progress of the arrival works from AVE to Galicia, which also makes the construction of these general infrastructures especially important. In an appearance his own request has already advanced that he had the objective of starting some of these works during this year 2018, and we know, by the media, that he has already begun to meet this objective by bidding and adjudication or by being in some of them works, depending on the case. As I said, coordination and commitment are necessary for other administrations, development and municipalities. And we also know by the means that, unfortunately, municipal collaboration was not the same in the various municipalities. And we also see, by the previous question, that, given the level of knowledge shown in some Members, it is appropriate, as far as possible, to clarify the state of evolution of some of these intermodals. And that's why we present the following question: what is the balance sheet and forecasts for the development of intermodal stations in the main cities of Greece? If you will allow me, you will also include — in view of Lugo's previous question. But I'm also concerned that we have not only the intermodal, but that train arrives at Lugo with the same commitment and the same thing that Mariano Rajoy's Government has shown. We'll see if Mr. Sánchez and Mr. Abalos demonstrate the same commitment. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, I am sure — and so on — that since the Galician Union is working on this goal, both on the track and on the Intermodal Lugo station. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u351	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u352	Thank you, President. Yes, Your Honor, from the beginning of the year I had the opportunity to report on the work we were doing since the Galician Union to provide the main cities of the intermodal stations, to encourage exchanges of mode of transport, to promote public transport. And the fact is that certain intermodal stations are already taking shape in different cities in Galicia thanks to the work we've been doing since the Galician Union and also a coordinated work with different administrations, mainly coordinated work with the Ministry of Development, since we're talking about main hubs of train station transport and bus station. There are significant advances at different intermodal stations. We want the main cities of Galicia, all the cities of Galicia to have modern intermodal stations. And we've been working with a lot of people for a long time in intense work, starting with getting those first funds, the money to develop the intermodal stations and looking for involvement with all the administrations that have responsibilities -- they're big projects that have great performances and therefore great implications for all the administrations -- working and looking for funds for those projects, the perfect fit of the different elements of the intermodal stations, and also developing a problem that really is a municipal problem -- the urbanist. We put it on the table, at the disposal of all the municipalities, Law 3/2016, to solve the urban problem and give urban support to these intermodal stations. We're working hard to build these bus stations integrated into the railway stations, to make the most of the potential for high-speed arrivals, to promote the use of public transport, to make cities also in the different cities of Galicia and sustainable and integrated performances in the territory. And we continue to move forward with different advances at different intermodal stations in Galicia. Ferrol, about to help out previous studies. Today, two running intermodal stations are the machines at two intermodal stations in Santiago and Ourense. In Santiago it is EUR 12 million that we are going to invest, including the gateway, which is about to bid. We started the works at the Ourense intermodal station last week, eleven million euros, together with the parking lot, which will be bided soon. In Pontevedra, already finishing the design. And in Lugo the truth is we're waiting for the Town Hall to answer that protocol proposal to sign with Adif; we've been waiting a long time and we've been waiting for him to answer that. Likewise, since it has been mentioned, in Plan Paradai we continue to wait for the Town Hall to get that agreement with the Confederation and license us, as well as the disposition of the land. If the Lugo Town Hall doesn't move forward, we can't move forward either. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u353	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u354	Thank you. Counsellor, I hope, since you are not the Member, that at least the mayor — who accompanies us — will hear the answer. In any case, thank you for this information. We see that Santiago and Ourense are very advanced, already in works. But as a member of the Coruña, I am particularly concerned about the city of Coruña. In Santiago, where the tide rules, even though it's not a particularly proactive attitude either, we see that there were no locks. It's not the case of the Coruña; that's why this concern. We've even seen Pontevedra advance more than The Crown. [[Murmurs.]] I'd like to ask you what are these reasons why The Crown, which had begun before, is later. Whether or not these municipal procedures have begun, if you see any risk at the beginning of these works or even the possible loss of these European funds by the Coruña. In any case, I would like to—and I apologize that this question does not go in writing, but it was subsequent statements from the mayor of the Crown—to ask him another question: what does the mayor, Mr. Ferreiro, who is responsible for this delay in the works of the intermodal, ask for his resignation for something that is his responsibility and is unable to cease or get the concellors to resign to whom his own plenary requested the termination? I believe that asking for the cessation of a counselor who does his work when he does not respond to the request of that cessation of his concellers because it is simply an expression that should be valued. In any case, the corrupts are worried because, as you just said, other cities are moving forward more than the city of the Crown itself. And we'd like to know what your valuation in this regard is. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u355	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Close the question, Infrastructure and Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u356	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the truth is that since the Galician Union we have been pushing these future projects in the cities of Greece and no council, no city should give up this kind of action, because they are future projects. We are taking the initiative since the Galician Union to develop intermodal stations in all the cities of Galicia, seeking agreement with all the administrations, seeking agreement with the Ministry of Development and seeking agreements with each of the municipalities, which must also assume their responsibilities. We have led these jobs since the Galician Union despite finding different traps in different municipalities of Galicia, which has difficulty often moving forward and pushing these intermodal stations. I set the example of the Vigo Town Hall, the Vigo Intermodal. At the Vigo intermodal we have been working for a long time and have been late as a result of the Vigo Council's lack of recognition since 2015, ignoring the need to execute those accesses according to this great intermodal commercial complex; since 2015, denying it; in April 2017 we finally got to recognize that these great accesses had to be executed and collaborated together. Finally, after the administrative proceedings have been completed, this same week, this great intermodal commercial project will be approved in the Higher Committee on Urbanism, to be subsequently authorized by the Town Council and the Union, and that the Vialia Centre, thanks to the Galician Union, can start the works with the autonomic license, because there is no municipal license. 15 million euros that make the intermodal station viable in Vigo. In Lugo, waiting for the reply — as I said — from the Town Hall to this draft text agreement, collaboration between Together and Adif; and, therefore, Adif and Join Galicia, waiting for the Council of Lugo to respond so that it can continue to move forward. At the intermodal station in the Coruña, we don't stop working. No administration has worked any more at the intermodal station in the Coruña. We'd like nothing more than to see her in motion. But there are bandages, criteria changes, we go from a council that forces us to throw work and time to waste; that's how work and time to waste, lots of work, money invested in garbage. And we never spare money or work, nor will we spare resources and work through the intermodal station. We'll continue to work hard despite the fact that we're trapped by different municipalities. Four intermodal stations, therefore, are underway: Vigo, Pontevedra, Santiago and Ourense, and our work also at the rest of the intermodal stations like Ferrol, like Lugo, and also — as we would have liked it to be underway — in the Town Hall of Coruña. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u357	Thank you, Counselor. Question by D. Marcos Cal Ogando and D. Antón Sánchez García of the G.P. of In Marea, on the performances carried out by the Galician Board to prevent the retentions that have been occurring in AP-9
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u358	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u359	Thank you, President. After this publicity parion for which the People's Party had used Parliament to carry out municipal campaign, we went back to parliamentary work. [[Murmurs.]] Counsellor, today we are taking an initiative to give you the opportunity to face the constant problems throughout this year at Rande Bridge. You've already given your face to take the picture at the fraudulent opening, you've already given your face in defense of Audasa, you've already turned your face to defend Mr. Rajoy, but we haven't seen him face to face to defend the interests of Galician citizenship, above all to face Galician citizenship in the face of these problems. What you answer today is of particular interest, because there are so many people who are asking this question in Galicia, especially all users and users who use the Rande Bridge, who have been using Rande Bridge throughout this year. That's why I would ask you to tell us about concrete actions and not hide in generalities, as you usually do in your responses. The question is very direct and very simple: what has so far done the board of Galicia to change the worst management of Audasa in the face of constant harassment to users and the continued scam?, a scam that we haven't marked in its entirety today, that of the AP-9, as it would see in the explanatory statement, and focused on the constant disturbances and restraints on the Rande bridge and the lack of any kind of compensation on the part of Audasa, nor return of the beaches or lifting of the barriers of the beaches. I suppose you, among your generalities, will say that this is state competition, and to avoid wasting your time, yours, ours and the people you can see, we're going to focus solely on the responsibility that the Galician Union has within the AP-9 Joint Commission, because you're there. The Council of Galicia is part of an AP-9 Joint Committee; therefore, you have a direct responsibility there and the obligation to take account of the work done within the AP-9 Committee. Much of citizenship has the feeling that you have done absolutely nothing in the face of all these abuses and now you have the opportunity to say otherwise. Faced with this problem, local councils, businessmen, transporters, drivers and drivers, the People's Valley, opposition and even the Prosecutor's Office have already been pronounced. And only when they saw themselves overcome by all this pressure and were not able to silence this question was Mr. Feijóo out saying that, if there was any restraint again, would the Audasa demand to raise the barriers; a brave, who proved himself to be a brave, because within a few days there were restraints and Mr. Feijóo hid his head in a hole, showing that he was totally going out of his mouth. The question is very clear: it tells us, in a concrete way, what they did within that commission, how many times they met, what they talked about at those meetings, what were the agendas of the day, what were the proposals of the Council of Galicia, what were the agreements, what were the conclusions, what were the concrete questions of the work that the Board of Galicia did within that commission. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u360	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u361	Thank you, President. You took advantage of your intervention to address different issues related to AP-9. I'll give you an answer as far as possible, but at any rate, allow me to focus. We're looking at solutions and we're dealing with solutions. What have we done? A lot of work. The word "work" may not be understood well in some areas, but a lot of work, and I'm going to report it. Of course, despite being a state competition and a channel of state ownership, we have been following very important steps in relation to AP-9, because it is the log track in Galicia, a follow-up that we have recently had to do through the media. We'd like to have a follow-up like we did in the tracking committee, which we had alive, which I hope will not be dead. We always defend — and we will continue to defend — the right to a quality of the AP-9 service, otherwise it is not acceptable, insisting on good benefits, excellent benefits on this route of capacity, on this highway, and on a quality service. And we've been defending this quality service for a long time, a lot longer since you've been a member of parliament, a long time before you were a Member, defending and demanding quality service from this highway. And we will applaud and support all initiatives aimed at defending the interests of the Greeks and related to the best service of AP-9 and improvements in AP-9. And of course we had political capacity, of course we had political capacity, face-to-face and show our capacity, and we didn't go beyond problems. Since the first step, measures have been introduced, exceptional measures to exceptional situations, we have asked for them, and of course there has been a result of this pressure exerted by the Galician Union in relation to AP-9: staff reinforcement, actions performed to avoid retentions on the exit of Salnes, on the toll of Sigüeiro, of which you are not supposed to be informed. Of course, when problems don't happen, it's no longer news. In any case, I think we can claim that the situation improved after these restraints, that there were results as a result of the pressure of the Galician Union. They've finished jobs, we've put emphasis on the quality of the service, and we'll keep that emphasis on the quality of the service, with special devices. And an initiative by the Galician Union, for example, in the expansion of the Rande Bridge, which you arrived very late; less bad than we did in time; you, at this time. And thanks to the Galician Union, Morrazo users can use both the external and the internal lanes, because we face it, and in time, not at all, like you. It is a milestone, of course: for the first time in history we have the voice of the Greeks in the AP-9 Joint Commission, thanks to this government, where we have certainly achieved very important facts, which I will bring to you in the next intervention. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u362	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Cal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u363	Well, no surprises, no generalities and you didn't give a single concrete action or a single concrete proposal within the Joint Committee, which is what we asked you for in this question. I, as you have not answered the questions, have nothing else to say, because you have not said anything at all about the questions I have asked you. So I'm going to ask you the same questions again, and I'm going to reduce them to two, two very concrete questions of action, of specific questions that you defended the Galician Union within the AP-9 Commission, and what was the answer and what were the conclusions. And I'm going to ask you for two things. One, which I have just asked you in the question: what did you propose, within the AP-9 Commission, in front of the constant blockades and restraints, before Audasa did not lift the barriers, by which she is committing a scam? What did they propose, which I proposed to the Council of Galicia within that commission? It's a very clear and very concrete question: what did you propose? And what was the answer? What were the conclusions? If they were taken into account, if no case was made to them, or if they didn't even meet, which is what we believe. Say, please, that's what they defended, because you have an obligation to account for your work. That's what you're here for. It's a matter of democratic quality, Counselor. If you believe in democracy, you must answer what you did within that commission and what you proposed and what were the agreements they reached within that committee. It's a very, very, very simple and very clear question. Answer, please, specifically. And I'm also going to ask you about another question that was also about the last things they've offered since the Joint Commission is here: what did I propose to the Galician Council in the face of the withdrawal from the payroll? If you were the ones who proposed that the payment of that fee be shared between the rest of the users and users, rather than that it had an impact on the enormous and indecent benefits of Audasa. I believe that they are very specific issues and that they must give an answer to what you have defended within the Joint Committee and what were the conclusions within that committee. And if you give us the date, it'd be great by now. But since they certainly didn't meet...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u364	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u365	...you can't give us the date. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u366	Close the question, Infrastructure and Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u367	Thank you, President. Specific answers to specific questions, which I see sometimes do not listen to or do not interpret information correctly. Specific data in the Commission. Do you think that you are breaking that agreement signed by the Bipartite of Galicia, being in Madrid the Socialist Party, that ruinous convention for Galicia, rounding to Audasa, where the Council itself recognized the unjust enrichment of Audasa by that agreement—I insist—signed by the Bipartite of Galicia, four hundred million euros that we avoid paying to the Greeks until the end of the concession? What do you think? Is it concrete or not concrete? Is it sufficient for a follow-up committee to reach this agreement? Of course, it doesn't matter to you what that processing can be, I'm sure you don't imagine, but the truth is, a lot of work. It's a success to prevent the Greeks from paying 400 million euros for a fee subsidy on a state-owned road. First data. [[Applause]] Demanding action, of course, for improvements in the service. Of course, demanding attitude and pressure exerted by the Galician Union for the quality of the service and also for important commitments. As I told you, in the configuration of Rande Bridge. You're late. It's too bad we're here in time. That is a specific fact which we also address in the follow-up committee. Second point. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Third point, concrete point, very specific point. We demand and agree that no more work be done in response to the fees of AP-9 and that these ruinous agreements be not made as the Government Zapatero signed with Minister José Blanco with an increase in the weight of 1% cumulative for twenty years and a fixed interest of 8% to Audasa; a round interest for Audasa, which, of course, we refuse and do not want the works to be done like this. By the way, I believe that today you have indeed supported at some point in time that the works would not have been impacted on the beaches. In any case, next point: the toll in Round it. Of course we agreed on the elimination of the fee in Round it up and the work started. Now you don't want to get rid of the toll in Round it up? We're sure we're hoping he'll continue to advance on the payroll in Roundla. And, therefore, political ability to get one, two, three, four...... very important agreements. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We will continue to defend the ownership of AP-9, because we believe that it is best for Galicia to monitor the management of the highway, plan properly and logically all works related to AP-9, which does not happen to us what is happening to us on the Ártebra road, which seems to prevail more interest than the general interest. And, of course, we're not willing either to take away the voice of the Greeks in relation to AP-9. We demand that the AP-9 Follow-up Commission be called. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u368	Thank you. Question by Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions planned by the Government of Greece to ensure the maintenance of the jobs of the Sargadelos factory in Cervo, as well as the future of the company
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u369	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u370	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. Let me read something to you: "The unions, the judges, the Pope or Rajoy can come here. Quiet, because the phrase isn't mine. If you read the press, counselor, you will know that who pronounced these words was Segismundo García, the majority shareholder of Sargadelos, who perfectly synthesized, in very few words, following the crisis that goes through the emblematic company in recent months: he. Mr. García publicly wanted to violate labour rights, pursue workers, violate 262 laws — which he himself counted — to fire 49 people, to be a master, owner and lord of Sargadelos, a mark that is far more than a center of work; Sargadelos is a culture, is an identity and is, above all, a country. Since the Galician Nationalist Block, we are greatly concerned about the future of Sargadelos, Counselor. We're worried because the medieval attitude of this businessman is putting the future of the plant in Cervo and is dragging down the image of a symbol that they have raised with work, with effort and commitment from Galeguist Isaac Díaz Pardo and Luís Seoane. Sargadelos has even recently been synonymous with artistic vanguard, the Welsh Bauhaus, a symbol of renewal of forms, of innovation, and now occupies the press pages throughout the state because its principal owner wants to turn it into a reduction in feudalism. But Galicia is not a banana republic, Counselor. That's why we believe from the BNG that no entrepreneur can act impunity by violating the rights of workers and workers, and much less do so repeatedly with the convivial or complicit silence of the Union. We believe that Junta should and can act, because, in addition to being Sargadelos, an emblematic cultural company, received over the last few years amounts of public money to reflect the company, a total of about one and a half million public euros since 2010, among them, among them more than one and a half million public euros, a participatory loan from XesGalice — I don't know you remember who was president of XesGalice at that time — worth EUR 950,000. Today, and after all that happened during the month of August, there are twenty people in Cervo who were fired. So the question we ask you is that you are going to make the Government to return the image of Sargadelos, to secure the jobs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u371	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u372	...and labor rights.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u373	Thank you. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u374	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodil, I fully understand your concern about the situation of this company. I'd like the same concern you're bringing by Sargadelos to your group that you've moved by all the workers in Galicia and thus defended it with the same intensity in the situation of the rest of the workers. Indeed, we agree that Sargadelos represents a very important part of our economic heritage, of our cultural and social heritage in Galicia, and therefore a company that, in addition, is creating jobs and that had a course of clear recovery souls working to ensure its viability. What we're not going to do — sooner or later — is violate the rule of law. I hope the Galician Nationalist Block in its proposals does not transfer this government to concullate the rule of law, because we are not going to do so. This government will respect freedom of enterprise, just as it will respect trade union rights and workers' rights, because both rights are thus collected in the Constitution itself. From the very first moment, the Government acted, at the moment the labour conflict arose, it came into contact with the employer, it contacted the workers, the unions, and we act with responsibility, trying to find a point of understanding that will ensure that labor stability and economic stability, which is the shared objective that we all have. So the Administration has fulfilled its role, a role of mediation, a role that is clearly necessary, but a role on which the Government will not make taxes. What we're going to do, as I told you, is respect and guarantee the rights of workers and respect at all times the freedom of enterprise. And in that context, the Galego Labour Relations Council has been developing this mediation work, listening to the proposals, opening up a space for dialogue and also trying to resolve the conflict. A conflict, Your Honor, which is not resolved — that is reality — and that we must therefore continue to work from mediation so that workers and property can solve that labor conflict that may put the situation of the company at risk. That's how we did it with Madeira Churches, so we're doing it with all the companies that need mediation from Galician union, and so we're doing it and we're doing it. Both the property and the workers and the unions have the tending hand of the Galician Labour Relations Council to try to resolve a conflict that is not yet resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u375	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u376	Thank you, President. I would like, Mr. Conde — I sincerely say — to defend with half the vehemence that defends the free market and freedom of business the rights of workers and workers, the rights of workers and workers. [[Applause]] Because I would remind you, by making some contextualization as to how we came to this situation today, the company Sargadelos, in parallel with the company receiving — I insist — a lot of public money, more than one and a half million euros, among them a participatory credit, given you as President of XesGalice, for EUR 950,000 to that company which was supposed to be linked to the maintenance of jobs — we saw that it was not so. While public funds were being delivered from the Galician Union to Sargadelos, Sargadelos' staff platoon supported two extinct EREs, one of which was declared illegal by the Justice and counted on the visa and pleasure of the Galician Union. That's why I told him I could apply that same vehemence to which I defend the free market to defend the rights of workers and workers. And I, look, a proposal: you should publicly apologize to those eight workers who were fired with the visa and pleasure of the Board and now you know that they were illegally fired, illegally. A temporary ERE, a creditor contest, and now they have the slate above a pattern that I don't doubt to threaten, to coerce to get what you want, without anyone saying anything. And you want me and this group to be quiet talking about mediation? What's going to happen to those more than 20 people who were fired during the month of August and who haven't recovered their job yet? I insist: they have the capacity and can intervene in Sargadelos to ensure the viability of the company, the return of the image of Sargadelos and with it of the entire country and, most importantly, ensure that the labor rights of workers and workers are respected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u377	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Close, economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u378	Mrs Rodil, I am sorry to have to remind you of the Constitution — I know that you are certainly not a text that is used with assiduousness — but the Constitution establishes the guarantee of freedom of enterprise and, at the same level, establishes the guarantee of trade union rights and the rights of workers. I used that same expression in my first intervention, and that's what the Government is doing, although you're the only one that transfers from your group, is that you just have first-time workers and second-time workers, defending workers and workers who just want to shut down their businesses, because that's what your parliamentary group is doing. [[Applause]] In fact, Igape granted EUR 354,000 in 2011 to Sargadelos to boost its international visibility of Galician handicraft products. I don't know if the BNG doesn't want to be supported by the Greek artisans or just didn't want Sargadelos to be supported at the time. In fact, even if you bring incorrect data — which I encourage you to correct: this advisor was not XesGalice's president in 2011 — in any case, if XesGalice gave you a loan in that year 2011, a loan that currently has a schedule of payments and that Sargadelos has an obligation to return and that logically this Board of Galicia will ensure that this loan is returned, as it does with all the loans it has to companies. But I remind you, in case you haven't been given the data, that the BNG was asking for support at that time to be granted that loan. So you gave him that loan. That loan, after the contest, has a schedule of payments, and the Galician Board will see to it that it can be returned, but at its own time it has served to ensure the viability and stability of the company. In any case, the Galician Union will continue to work, as I told you, trying to ensure the viability of the company. And, therefore, mediation is where the possible solution is, because we have to agree on the property and the workers. There's no other way. Any path you want to set will not give that solution. Surely you, who always put ideology first, think that the solution goes through ideology, but it's not. This government is going to make decisions to try to solve this labor conflict. They have to get an understanding of the workers and the unions, along with the company's property, and the Administration will do three things: firstly, to guarantee the rights of trade unions and workers; secondly, to guarantee the freedom of enterprise; and thirdly, logically, to mediate in the search for a solution to ensure the viability of Sargadelos. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u379	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the forecasts of the Galician Union regarding the allocation of the necessary resources to the IES of Brión and to the CEIP Father Feijoo, of Allariz
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u380	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u381	Thank you again, President. Good afternoon. First of all, Counsellor, we have asked him for a Culture Council many times, now only cultural policies are lacking. He's got a lot to do with that reading that takes almost a decade to shave. [[Applause]] Do you know what they have in common, Counsellor, the CEIP Barrie de la Maza, in Santa Comba; the CEIP Arcediago, in the municipality of Santiso; the CEIP de Roxos, in Villestro, Santiago de Compostela; the CEIP Castelao, in Orders; the ICC As Mirandas, in Ares; the CEIP Padre Feijoo, in Allariz; and the IES de Brión? You know what they have in common? The lack of a teacher and the massification in classes. This start of course many public schools reported that the Council refused to provide sufficient teaching facilities to meet the needs of the student, to ensure the ratio of students by class and to maintain educational projects and a quality educational offer. Today we are accompanied by the full representatives of two of these centres, and we would like to greet from the BNG Parliamentary Group the representatives of the ANPA of the IES of Brión and the representatives of the Government of Allariz. The families of Allariz and Brión have been mobilising for weeks to defend public and quality education in our country and are two examples of a broader problem that reaches public education and that is a direct consequence of the cuts and policies of the People's Party. In a synthetic way, because you know the situation of these two teaching centers, the IES of Brión, where he resigned the block management and the families had almost two weeks closed in the center, he asked three teachers, three, to ensure the quality of education they were providing. You knew from the summer of your needs, and yet you denied it. But there wasn't a proposal from the Galician Council. We don't have teachers. We're not going to send teachers. The proposal the government makes to them is that they cut them off, that they leave students who need them without the performance improvement program, that they delete optional, also the star measure: robotics, and that they put more than thirty students from 4th ESO in each class. The CEIP of Allariz is denied a teacher, a teacher in childhood, in order to be able to unfold, and they force each classroom to enter twenty-five-six children aged 2 and 3 years; an Allariz teaching center that earns in tuition, and that in the province of Ourense and in the interior of the country is an oasis. He's got the families up there. The question is very simple: will you answer from the Council the demands of the IES of Brión and also of the CEIP of Allariz? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u382	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u383	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Madam. I also greet the representatives of the ANPA of Brión and the political representatives of the Allariz Council. In the morning, I think that already at an interpellation by the Socialist Party, I think I have made it clear what is the current situation of the start of the course in Galicia, which, as I have already said, is developing with a huge, enormous normality and with a huge, enormous tranquility. It's true there's some timely case. Many of them have already been rearranging and retraining in the last few days, and obviously I think it seems a bit strange that punctual cases are used as a flag to attack the general government policy, the general educational policy of the Government, or that it is about dismantling public education or political and arbitrary decisions. Because I believe — and I have said it many times — that it should not be confused what is the organization of such a heavy public service, so powerful from the point of view of media that mobilizes, of people who mobilize, of management that involves, with arbitrary political decisions. I can assure you -- and I'd worry if I thought otherwise -- that neither this counselor nor others -- nor those who will come in the future -- will say with their finger: here put three teachers, take one, put four, put half or do what you see; none. I didn't tell any inspector, there's no political decision based on arbitrariness, and no one tells an inspector: here he has three teachers or here he pulls out three teachers, here he puts a teacher, here he does an aggregation or he removes; in no case. And I'd be very concerned if you thought so. I'm telling you because, if you think that, you really think it's possible and, if you think it's possible, it would be very worrying if at some point you had some responsibility like this. Because in these cases there is not a single arbitrary decision. All decisions are based on inspection reports, technical reports, data based, statistics based, ratios based. Another thing is that you tell me it's unfair, whatever you want. Now that you're trying to argue that there's a political discrepancy, a political arbitrariness or a political decision in a matter, I insist that it's absolutely worrying. And I told the Socialist Party Member this morning: there are four, five, six, seven cases, whatever you want. But if you combine the power of the education system and compare me with six, seven, ten and a thousand, and put it on a scale, you will actually conclude, if you're honest with yourself, that the start of the course is done with all normality, and the inspection services together with the management teams are responsible for organizing the academic structure and organizing the teaching structure at each of the centers, be it in Brión, in Allariz, in Sarria, in Chantada and in any of the municipalities, in any of them. With which I ask you, Madam, to be careful in this area.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u384	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u385	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u386	He's got another round later. Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u387	Thank you, President. Me, prudence and calm it all down. But what you call "point cases," counselor, have names and surnames, and they're in a part of your life where the decisions you make or the whole of society now make will also condition your lives. And we're not asking for arbitrariness, we're not asking for a finger to hand over a teacher where it doesn't fit, what we're asking is that you cover the needs of teachers who have teaching centers, who ask nothing more than you comply with the law. Because you were talking about ratios, actually, and that's what they ask you to do: teacher so that you can unfold and fulfill the ratios that mark legislation in this country. And legislation in this country says there can be no more than twenty-five pupils in childhood classes per class, and the ratios say there can be no more than thirty students in the ESO case. And what you're forcing is to put more students in classes than is legal. We are also one of the most important issues we want to emphasize here today, because to me there is something that surprises me, because it says, this is not a political decision. The number of teachers or the number of teachers available in this country is a political decision, which have cut educational squares in this country with the rates of replacement is a political decision, and the consequences that are now suffering from the IES of Brión, the CEIP Father Feijóo de Allariz or as many others as he reported to him at the beginning are the result and the result of political decisions. [[Applause]] Besides, I insist that these political decisions have names and surnames, just like the consequences of those decisions. There's an ESO room student in the IES in Brión, who could continue to move forward, who could see their educational needs being met if they could maintain those support programs, which now because they don't grant these three squares, three teacher squares that you deny them, they won't be able to keep open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u388	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Close the question, cultural counsellor, education and Universitary ordination.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u389	Mrs. Rodil, I understand the families, the families' concerns and the family's protest, I understand, and that's a good sign, because it indicates that society is alive and that it wants the best for its children. I totally understand that. And I meet informally on a couple of occasions with the ANPA representatives and communicate it with these words, you might ask. Now, what I don't share is the political use that you try to make, because you tell me here with all your oratory ability — which you have a lot of -- that you do. What do you mean by "you're up to," what do we do with the Inspectorate's reports?, don't we listen to the Inspectorate, or is the Inspectorate about to be? And you can say, you're shielding yourself at the Inspectorate. Listen, there are 1,000 educational centers in Galicia, and in the 1,000 educational centers in Galicia that regulate the internal organization, the teacher, etc., are the inspection services along with the management teams. Then don't come in the counselor's finger to say, here you put more teachers or take them out. No, it's not in any case. And in Brión, as elsewhere, administrative decisions have absolutely logical criteria. And, of course, you do here a kind of amendment to the whole, but I'm telling you, listen, we in Galicia have a teaching staff of around 30,000 teachers. Do you really believe that for three, six, eight, twelve, twenty teachers, compared to the 30,000 in the education system, that the Council or the political officer would like to put out the fires immediately? Maybe you don't think so; maybe you think it's a whim, or this gentleman doesn't want to put three teachers here. Listen: but if I do so, I don't comply with the Inspectorate's mandate, I don't do the inspection reports. Another question that happens, and it's also happening in the specific case of Brión, is that the Inspectorate and the management focus, feel, talk, look for some alternative, look for some solution, but really what is very worrying — as I said at first — is that you think arbitrary decisions are made in this matter, which is radically false. Because you'll say, this gentleman is angry at this center of Brion. And why not to a road center, or a Xinzo center, or anywhere else? In this case, in Brion there are some data that the inspection services along with the management services have to evaluate, and they're sitting down, and maybe they can find a solution. And if they find it and agree on a purely technical decision, in which there's nothing on the political track, do you know what you're going to say? You're going to keep saying: no, it's cut, it's... really, it's very weak that argument because it lacks any technical basis.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u390	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u391	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u392	Thank you. Question by Mr Luís Villares Naveira and 13 other Members of the G.P. in Marea, on the actions planned by the board to meet the needs of teaching staff and infrastructure in the school course 2018-2019
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u393	You have the floor to Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u394	Thank you, President. Counselor, it gives me a lot that we're going to live here on marmot day. We would like to begin by thanking, of course, the families of the IES of Brión who are accompanying us today, and who have been doing what you don't do for a dozen days: defending the quality of public education in Galicia, which would be your obligation. And for the sake of not doing so, perhaps you should be relegated to your functions, as an idea. Many thanks to the families who are in struggle and many actions for what remains, which, of course, will be hard. Because despite the triumphal speech of the People's Party of Recovery, we know that year after year they continue to dismantle our rights; year after year we have fewer teachers, less classes, less resources; ultimately, less quality. And also less teacher, as it is denounced at the institute of Brión, but also at Allariz, in Orders, in Santiso, in Roxos, in Santa Comba. They're not examples, they're the reality of what happens in this country. And this time there's a novelty, Counselor: they're telling their government that it's enough, enough to cut our rights. It doesn't seem like it's going to be so easy for them this time. Counsellor, the question is very simple: do you go or go — who substitutes for office — to listen to the demands of the ANPAs, who have been claiming for weeks to meet the needs of teachers and infrastructures in their centres? You see, the question is clear, because it's enough to take the daily press to check that this course is full of problems, contrary to what you say. So much so that even you just lost the job; so something must be going on in this course. [[Laughter]] And I'm going to focus on the case of Brión, because I told him before: I'm a pride and an example. An example for the good: the determined mobilization of an educational community for the sake of its rights. But also for evil: the case of Brión, as you have hoped, is not the case, it is a case, one of so many educational centers that suffers from the consequences of the educational cuts of the People's Party. And be serious, please. He won't answer anything like what he just said if we thought he had mania, he'd just miss it! It's ridiculous even if I think about it. You'd just have to handle some kind of educational facility in this country! No, the problem is the short-sighted and economicist look of his government, which he doesn't understand we're talking about the rights of Galician children. Well, as you know, at this institute they ask for three vacancies to be able to cover the registration of the optional materials that have been awarded in recent years, and even if they were being awarded with prizes that you, Counsellor, have given them. You gave a prize to Robotics' teacher, who won't be able to continue in the center. It's an indecency. What happens is you gave them a prize now that the territorial inspector you just talked about said it's a sort of "Asian luxury"; I know Robotics for the remaining rural institutes. A political indecency that should have made it stop from the job you occupy. They've already done it to you, because I wish she had accompanied him. But there's more, and you're going to let me use the words of this family, which are the ones that can best explain their situation: "You're the one who thinks Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u395	Thank you, Mrs. Chao, thank you. Time's up. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u396	Mrs. Chao, really, when I have the honour to leave this responsibility to take others, I'm going to miss you very much, because that serious speech that you constantly give us is really a song to melancholy and it's a song -- let's say -- from my perspective, or our perspective, I may be wrong -- to the synergy. Because, of course, you're here talking about dismantling, you're talking about quality loss. And I wonder where you're looking at or what you're studying or evaluating. Any parameter that you take from the education system, both in quality and in equity, in recent years, you will see as a mark of constant growth, an accist path. There's a lot of variables. Although you will surely be surprised, Galicia is at the level of the countries we look at, of the Nordic countries. We're in PISA at the first jobs in Spain. In equity, we are at the first jobs in Spain and Europe. On equal opportunities, on innovation, on many issues of which you say there is no quality. Everything you say -- and I think it's very good that you say it in that serial speech that you've got us used to -- actually, when you see reality, you're lost. But, of course, there are politicians who have to manage reality for it to work better. And I believe that in the People's Party and in this Union government we are in that field. And others create speeches, catastrophic speeches, and trying to think they're going to have a higher political income. But I think it's better for citizenship, it's better for society, it's better for a country's advancement, it's managed and we're able to tell the truth. And the truth is, the education system in Galicia is a good system. You might want it not to be, but it's a good system, and it's not thanks to the advisor, neither the advisor, nor the management team — something we'll have to see, but not everything — it's thanks to the families, thanks to the inspectors, thanks to the entire educational community, to the professor. We have 30,000 teachers in the education system, the vast majority deeply involved and concerned about the education of our students. You're here, what I'm saying — as I say — is a serious speech, which really when you see it and put it in front of reality because it leaves it in the wrong place. You ask here about the infrastructures. You know how many works you're running the Education Council in the summer and you're finishing some, you know how many? Two hundred ninety-eight works, with extensions, improvements, new dining rooms, new classes, new workshops. Twenty-eight performances in two hundred sixty-three educational centers, one hundred forty-five municipalities! [[Applause]] You, who also talks about staff, which is all a disaster, know that Galicia has the lowest interim rate in the state as a whole? And you know we just called two thousand teacher squares? And what have we just had a wage agreement with the unions?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u397	Thank you, Counselor. He's got another round later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u398	From there, you can criticize. But, as I said, it's a melancholy exercise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u399	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u400	Unfortunately, we no longer have the ability to surprise you because of your inability to answer a single question put to you in this parliament; you never deserve to answer a single question in this parliament. And the case is that there is no lack of respect for this honourable Member or this parliamentary group, and you miss the families up there waiting for a concrete answer from your side, which you refuse to give. We asked very specific questions, and he didn't say anything. I'll put it back where I left it. He was told by families, "You're making Galicia one of the communities that best caters to diversity. Unfortunately, we have to inform you that in this center without the faculty that we claim, a Pemar group — A performance learning improvement programme — you know it's going to disappear." Yes, disappear; hear well, Counselor: it will disappear. Are you planning on doing something to avoid it? You said something concrete. After hearing it, they show that they insist on the mistake. You and your entire department have been ignoring the urgent demands of the ANPA in this country for weeks. But what's worse: they're missing the truth. You say everything's still the same. False. He increased the enrolment at this center in thirty-one pupils and students, and did not increase the teaching staff, with which the logic is clear: more students and even teachers, higher ratio by class and teacher. It's clear: lower quality. He says the groups are the same. False. A group was lost in the ESO room and one won in the first. Is the total the same? Yes. But reality is totally different, because you know that the needs and teaching hours in the first and fourth ESO are radically different. Either ignore it, or just mind, choose it. They correct their attitude, they listen, they abandon the logic of the wallet and think about the rights. As the families say, they're going to continue on strike because they have 300 reasons and three reasons to do so. You too, you have the 300 and three reasons for Brión to do it, and the thousands of girls and boys whose education depends on the decisions made in his office. Some responsibility. Like the children of CEIP Barrie de la Maza de Santa Comba, where the families are protesting by the cuts of a teacher. Also in Orders there are problems with massed classes. Also in Santiso, where they want to cut off a teacher. So many cases! Look, Counselor, you may be ashamed to come here with triumphalism, but you have to be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u401	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u402	...titles like this six days ago:
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u403	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u404	"The former unitary school in Chadrexa da Compassa...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u405	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u406	...recover as a veil subsidised by the board."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u407	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u408	We can't afford...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u409	Thank you. Your time is up. Thank you. [[Mrs. Chao Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Peche, Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary ordination.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u410	Well, Mrs. Chao, the truth is you're here questioning that in a rural council where unfortunately for many years you've been closing a unitary school for lack of population, and that you're saying that it's almost the responsibility of the current government, because it's really surprising. And I think it's the most palpable proof of the imaginary world you live in. You talk here about attention to diversity. And I'd ask you for a minimum of stink, because if you've had Galicia in any respect in recent years, it's in attention to diversity. In view of diversity, we are not only a referent — I would say — in Spain but also in Europe as a whole. And you'll tell me, you're a triumphalist... and I say to you, ask yourself where the autonomous community of Spain has a percentage of students with special educational needs integrated into ordinary classes. [[Mrs. Chao Pérez speaks words that are not perceived.]] Which autonomous community in Spain has the percentage of professionals dedicated to attention to diversity, PT, ANEE and caretakers similar to Galician? What community in Spain has to do with the different groups that care for disability and the special educational needs that exist in Galicia? Or ask yourself what capacity Galicia has in comparison to other communities to respond to the enormous individual difficulties faced by students with educational needs? And here's a very serious job for the management teams, the inspection teams and the guidance teams. And that you publicly question at parliamentary headquarters this is really, as I say, an exercise of genuine melancholy. You're also always making categorical assertions. You, not long ago, said categorically that four schools were going to be closed in Galicia. No locks! And he never apologized. It never occurred to him to say, maybe I was wrong. And now you also say with a great category that a problem arises and that it is almost a personal decision of this counselor that there are no three teachers above. God and it stays so wide, and nothing happens at all. Look: in this particular case -- I'll repeat it for the last time, I have to say it because everyone asks me about it, as if there were no more cases; I'm sure there were more cases they would ask about other things, but everyone asks about it, and I always say the same -- there is not a single arbitrary decision in this matter. Now inspection teams are talking to the management to try to find a meeting point, to see if they're looking for a solution. And you're never going to tell the Inspectorate or the management that they take a criterion against the principles. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You should know that the educational ratios are marked by a law. In that law, which was changed at the time, Galicia has the lowest class ratios in Spain, and they never changed in the worst moments of the crisis. And Galicia has the highest teacher/student ratio in Spain, best with Asturias. And from there, you say what you want, stay so calm...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u411	Thank you, Counselor. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u412	...and there's nothing else to say. In any case...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u413	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u414	...as I said,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u415	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u416	...if I may...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u417	No, time's up. Let's just leave it there. Is the answer already...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u418	No, just...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u419	We're done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u420	I just wanted to say goodbye, like...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u421	Oh, perfect.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u422	It's a minimal question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u423	That's all right. It's already a courtesy thing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u424	And to finish by thanking the various spokespersons in the field of education with whom I had the opportunity to exchange opinions and exchange political differences. I also wish you luck with the new team and the new education spokespersons that there may be. And to say that I walk frankly proud of the work done and I hope that the education of this country, which is a very good education, will follow this path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u425	Thank you, Counselor. Good luck in the new assignment, too. Question from Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the expansion of the Hemodynamic Service of the University Hospital Complex of Ourense for the service to be provided 24 hours
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u426	Question by Mrs Noela Blanco Rodríguez of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u427	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counselor of Health. Today is a day of great news, there's a lot of a media earthquake. First, for that government remodeling. And I have to say — and with all my respect you know — that from the Socialist Group, of course, we don't know if we're very sorry, but very disappointed that you're not one of those people who leave the Government, for all the damage that has been done to public health in this country. Then I'll tell you why. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] But in addition to that, today, ladies and gentlemen — and we bless ourselves and we bless the whole process of negotiation from here too — to a great deal of agreement within the Covenant of Toledo, there will therefore be a revaluation of pensions according to the IPC. Of course, something curious happened: practically at the same time that in Madrid there was agreement with all the political forces — the included People's Party — the Galician People's Party voted against the revaluation of pensions according to the IPC. By the way, by the mouth of the Secretary General of the People's Party of Galicia. [[Applause]] But let's get to the point. That Ourense is a province forgotten by the Greek Government, I think we all know it and all the oransansans and the orensas. That it has not brought us any kind of performance to have a government of the People's Party either in the city or in the province of the same political colour as in the Union of Galicia, too! Look: the disgruntling in health matters is tremendous, the absence of pediatric surgery at 24 hours, beds closed by saturation, weekend without radiologists at the Summer Hospital that are being given this September, and that judgment of the boat, which we all know from Ourense to Valdeorras we can't reach in twenty minutes, nor residents nor any person, except for teletransport. Well, today we're talking about hemodynamics at 24 hours. You just widened it to ten at night, extended it seven months after announcing that you're going to make that enlargement. Turns out they've got her in Lugo long before. It must also be because there they have a mayor who, instead of being a vassal to the President of Galicia, as happens with the mayor of Ourense, claims the rights of citizenship and continues to claim 24 hours. Quite on the contrary, Ourense's show is as good a vassal to his lord, grateful for the crumb of having up to ten at night. It's not a vice, it's not a whim, because it would avoid complications in acute coronary syndrome, reduce the incidence of cardiovascular pathology, decrease mortality. Because, Counselor, we're talking about some of the figures that creep: mortality rate per 100,000 inhabitants, 59.7%, when on the state average it's 32.8%; three times more mortality than in the Coruña and that in Pontevedra. Tell me, Counselor, will you correct me again...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u428	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u429	... how have you done it again?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u430	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u431	And you're going to deploy the service at 24 hours?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u432	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u433	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I wish you the best, Mrs. Blanco. The truth is that the Galician Union has a clear bet for Ourense, throughout its province. And it shows that in recent times we have inaugurated a health centre, the one of the Couto, with a value of more than three million euros; the expansion of the University Complex of Ourense. That vassal mayor could open this expansion too, just like the Health Care Center. And we're even thinking about innovation, in a future for Ourense, and it's going to open up there, and it's already open the launch of living lab, which is a place where — inside Feder's 2050 Fund Hospital — a true testing environment and evidence bank is provided where users and producers can co-create new products or services suitable to the real needs of society. The Health Council works unequivocally to ensure the best quality and safety of the entire Greek citizenship anywhere in the territory in which it is located. The Greek Myocardial Acute Infarction Care Program is a successful program that ensures immediate attention and as soon as possible when acute myocardial infarction occurs. In Galicia we have had since 2005 the "Progalia" programme of care for acute myocardial infarction. During all these years the program has been consolidating and is recognized as one of the best in Spain and Europe. We have a record and a commission to keep this record — the log is called Regaliam, and it was also the proposal of this parliament — that has seven cardiologists — one of each health area — and the staff of 061, who coordinates all cases. And what is the quality criterion used by the Greek Committee? For the Spanish Society of Cardiology: global mortality within 30 days, once patients with cardiorespiratory arrest or shock are excluded. And it is considered that the quality criterion for Spanish society is less than five percent. From the last report of the Committee on the Control and Follow-up of Regaliam — as I say, established by cardiologists and technicians of 061 — meeting last June 6, it can be concluded that on 31 December 2017 a total of 2,724 cases were recorded, representing a total of 40,23 cases per 100,000 inhabitants. Global mortality for all causes in this period after thirty days of follow-up was 3.5%, lower — as I said before — the quality criterion established by the Society of Cardiology. In Ourense, what do we have? A Cardiology Service with an excellent level of activity, twelve optional, thirty-three beds assigned and an activity of about two thousand annual revenues and around 17 thousand consultations. Two hundred sixty-seven pacemakers, twelve defibrillators and one hundred and forty-four generator replacements have been installed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u434	Thank you, Counselor. He's got another round later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u435	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u436	Replica, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u437	Mr. Counselor, we'd better not talk about the Health Care Center. I have very little time, but you tried to inaugurate it in the full electoral campaign of the autonomous elections; this honourable Member remembers it perfectly. And, of course, they set up a fight between the staff and the tremendous users, and they know it perfectly well. Besides the problems you're already having maintenance when it's recently opened. Not to mention this extension of the Hospital Complex, which had been more than three years behind, too, and which, of course, was not designed by its government, but was designed by the former government, by the evil Bipartite. Look: it's the third time in this legislation that we ask for hemodynamics twenty-four hours, the third time! And I repeat: it's not a whim, it's not an Asian luxury, we don't want a blacksmith, what we want is something we need. Because Regaliam's data says that in Ourense it's one hundred and fifty-four minutes. But I just don't know if you know where The Vega is, well, because in the Vega -- just like in the case of pediatric surgery -- you have to move to Vigo, and until Vigo three hours ago, Counsellor, by car; I'm not talking in the middle of public transport. You guys had to adjust. They said they wouldn't extend it and had to expand it until ten o'clock in the evening. Look: "We actually commit ourselves to its operation 24 hours, and there we are going to be in that commitment." That was the health spokesman of the People's Party, Session Diary of November 2, 2011. [[Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez shows the House a photocopy.]] You're in breach of your commitments. And just as it happened here, which was eighteen days before the general elections -- if, eighteen days before -- I wouldn't miss anything, I could almost bet on you, that before the municipal elections there will be an announcement like this. So, please don't make any further correction, do it at once because it's necessary, as I said. Because right now we are not first-time citizens, we have a third left, which are those people who are treated after ten at night and who have to take their car, their particular vehicle in most cases, and address Vigo in order to be properly cared for.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u438	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u439	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u440	Thank you. Close the question, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u441	The truth is that no more inaccuracies or lies can be said in such a short time. Look: in the Ourense Hemodynamics room in 2017, 1,132 procedures were conducted, three hundred outpatient clinics, fifty-three emergencies, and only forty were derived from Vigo. Only forty in three hundred sixty-five days! We're talking about statistical mortality data. First of all, you bring a data that is equally out of ignorance or something there's no faith, I don't know. The gross rate — as everybody knows — is not worth comparing population; therefore, we have to go to the adjusted rate, to the adjusted rate that we use anyone who knows a little bit about biohealth statistics. Look, the adjusted rate we're talking about is that Ourense has 33.5 -- similar to Lugo's and Coruña's -- at 2.8 of Spain's average rate, but with a clearly downward trend, because in 2000 that rate was 69.5, and now it's 33.5, thirty-six deaths less for every 100 inhabitants in sixteen years. That's the difference. Obviously, it is healthy habits, genetics, diet, exercise, less toxic habits and logically health support from primary care to hospital. All of this was able to decrease in sixteen years thirty-six deaths per 100,000 inhabitants. This statistics is adjusted to the four Greek provinces. This is the table that shows the fall in mortality and how they are practically these three provinces with similar data. That's the reality, not what you want to tell. See, since commission creation, its function was not only to analyze the log parameters, but also to see for the quality of these parameters and, fundamentally, to establish improvements recommendations for the Progaliam program. The members of the monitoring commission of this record a few months ago proposed extending the schedule of available hemodynamics rooms, monitoring their results continuously. So we did it in Ourense, so we are currently doing hemodynamics from Monday to Friday on extended hours from eight to twenty hours. I don't know if when you asked the question was a year or a half ago, because the question doesn't say anything about it. He asks when it's going to be extended because the schedule is until 3:00 p.m. It's not until 3:00 p.m., but just like you recorded the question a long time ago, maybe. Look, from this board we're going to continue to watch because for technical reasons we can modify and continue to improve health services. The reality is that the Spanish Society of Cardiology says Galicia has a better mortality than the average of Spain, it's in 3.5 including Ourenses. That's why we say that mortality is decreasing significantly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u442	Thank you, Counselor. Time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u443	...and we will continue to establish follow-up criteria...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u444	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u445	...to improve the conditions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u446	Thanks, thanks, time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u447	And besides you, personally...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u448	Counselor, time's up. Thank you. [[Applause]] Question by Mr Julio Torrado Quintela and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the reasons of the Government of Galicia to announce Galicia's candidacy for the reception of the European Bacteriological Control Laboratory of Bivalvos after the vote within the European Union which denied this possibility
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u449	Thank you, President. Counsellor, let us bring up today a subject that is not new, in which, of course, you never miss the great opportunity to be wrong, and the truth is, with some interest, to see if you are ever able to tell the truth about this matter. You know that after the ridiculous thing they did they intended to go forward with this question, and you can remember that the truth is that you don't have a good history. We remember that in the spring of last year, already in 2017, you — the questions or suggestions of this parliamentary group — said, as is customary in this government, that they were already doing a lot to raise that candidacy from the European Bacteriological Control Laboratory of Bivalvos in Europe so that they could come to Galicia; they were already working. It happened, however, that in May, at meetings at the European Union's own headquarters, the Spanish Government knew, and must have told you, that it would not be possible, because you already had real information that this intention of Europe was to diffuse that laboratory. You have maintained the situation, even voted in favour of maintaining Galicia as a unique candidate. They knew it was impossible. Not happy, when in October it was voted — with a vote in favour of the Spanish Government and no objection — that that laboratory was fading out and, therefore, there would be no possible candidatures, a month later President Feijóo announced the candidacy; a month after his resolution he announced a candidacy that was no longer possible and that they never, never, presented. The truth is, the excuses were much better than the situation. The fault was that the envoys to Europe on behalf of Spain were Catalans, that truth which was wonderful; the fault was that it was from the European Commissioner who decided; the guilt after that was that no one told them anything and therefore you did not submit a candidacy because there was nothing to submit, because no one told them anything. And the truth, Counselor, that the only thing we ask ourselves here is, who's responsible? And why was it announced, why did the president of the board with a bunch of oropean events and celebrations paid by everyone announce a candidacy of something that was impossible? But the truth is that it was much better to escape forward, because instead of recognizing a mistake and the ridiculous thing they did on behalf of all of us, in the name of all of Galicia in Europe, you said that they were going to work to reverse that scenario, they fled forward, they were amazing! They were foolish to lie and resolved by lying, because they promised to be working to reverse that situation, in which they would try to ask for the scenario to be reversed. Do you know what happened to that request? In recent weeks you spoke to the European Union again, and what did you say? That there was no official request about it. Second time! This government won't let a second time pass so that it could fall into the same stone. All we ask is not to do a third party, to admit the mistake and explain why they announced that candidacy when it wasn't possible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u450	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Answer from the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u451	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Torrado, you have to allow me to clarify some questions that seem to you that have not yet been made clear after talking about this — I believe — enough. In any case, I am convinced that this is not a missed opportunity, because Spain will play the most important part of the functions it has so far been performing the Cefas, which is related to the classification and follow-up of the production areas of bivalve molluscs. I say that this couldn't have been produced from such a bad management, since if this advance is the result of a bad management, we don't want to think about how it was that others did that if we were imposed a chemical method of identification of toxins still knowing that it didn't bring greater security to consumers, but it did imply higher cost, greater variability, slowness and less reliability in analytical results. What really points to me is that now it looks like we already have a committee officer who discussed and made this decision, because before that it seems that the comitology process was something that didn't have a father, who was born orphaned. In any case, I think someone is seriously wrong when he says there are no managements, when on January 22, I was myself, with my team, meeting in Brussels with DG Health's CEO, who depends on that commissioner you were referring to. And that meeting was to address the situation of the laboratory and see whether there was any possibility of reversing the segregation of functions and assigning the same functions to the laboratories of the autonomous community. That's where there's graphic evidence and news that ensures that this is how I'm telling you, and this meeting, in addition, I announced it at a meeting in the Galician Parliament in December 2017. In addition, it cannot be said that the possibility of reversing the situation has been denied since that vote you cited, but that the vote on Coreper and the Council of Ministers still remained, in addition to being re-examined even in the European Parliament until the beginning of February this year. At that time margin we went to Brussels, we went to show the direct interest in Galicia because it is the reference centre for controlling the classification of production areas. At that meeting, which seems to have not existed for some, it was DG Health's own director who pointed out the possibility that Vigo's reference laboratory would lay the groundwork for establishing a working protocol together with Intemar. That's what we asked the previous Ministry of Health of the Government, and what we were working on was a possibility for Galicia to increase competences directly, and we wait and trust...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u452	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u453	...that you can continue to produce. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u454	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u455	Counsellor, the European Union claims that there is no official request; then you will have to explain it to me. If the European Union is lying, then it will not be a problem to go there and make a deep complaint, but it will be said, don't say that it will, don't say that it will, do it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Or they'll lie the media... of course, because you're sure you have a powerful weapon to say that the European Union is lying: a picture has been taken. What's good, taking a picture is good! You even lied in this whole process by four press headlines, and they put the president in that problem, because I remind you here that he said it wasn't his problem, because you never said it after October, that it was the vote. After October, the president said it, but that he had it, that you've gone through the problem. So, you're lying, are you lying the means or are you lying to the European Union? I ask the questions, it's very complicated linguistically, but Mr. Pazos will explain it to you another day. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Madam Counsellor, we must remember... by the way, the honourable Member who spoke said that there was no nomination, he told me in committee, but if you tell me that if we are going to incorporate an axis into the matter, then some of the Members of the People's Party, as well. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] By the way, Counsellor, is that you said that the fault — that is, this is the last commission, is that you don't miss the opportunity to look at it — was the current government, which had not supported enough. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Counselor, we've already found a lot of guilty. Now, some are right, because the only real, Counselor - and that's what we asked - is that you knew this was impossible. They sold their credibility for four headlines. They're trying to run away and the truth is they're going to be ridiculous every time they say some argument, and the question is, the new lady, they're going to delight us now to give us an explanation. And if you do something, please do it in writing, because the truth is, you can have photo credibility, but you haven't had one for a while.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u456	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Close this question, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u457	Thank you, Mr. President. Then, at the end, I can leave you a letter, Mr. President, which I sent to the Commissioner on 11 September for the reply you gave in the European Parliament, so that they can see that I'm not talking only about pictures, which I'm also talking about... Mr. Torado, look, I don't know how to explain things anymore, because when you don't want to understand you close your ears and what others say doesn't matter. No application can be submitted when there is no agency to apply for. Have you come any time? No, this was a decision that a commissioner made to segregate the powers that so far are in the Cefas lab. That decision was made by a commissioner, who you didn't like to be told because the commissioner is socialist. I don't blame you, Mr. Torrado, the commissioner took you to the commissioners' school... that's as if a minister now brings to the council of ministers a proposal for a royal decree and if he says, "Hey, it was the ministers' council, it wasn't the minister!" [[Applause]] Home! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What you voted for... excuse me, sir. What I'm telling you is that the commissioner on which this decision depends proposed to do it in comitology, that is, you can't apply, there's no time frame for presenting it. We did what we did was say... [[Mr. Torrado Quintela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, if you don't want to listen... No, to me, look, lie, none. [[Murmurs.]] I'm going to ask the Director General of DG Health to confirm in writing that I was meeting with him and what was discussed at that meeting. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm going to ask you to say it, because that's how I asked the commissioner on September 11th. You can't say that there wasn't an official proposal when you were DG Health's own director who told us: as the most important part goes to Galicia, I'm going to propose to the community reference laboratory that depends on it, although it's located here in Galicia, that you make a protocol of collaboration with Intemar. And that's what we're working on, Mr. Torrado, and that's what we're still working on. And that proposal made from Galicia to the Ministry of Health was on top of the table. I hope and sincerely hope that now go on, because the Intemar is where it was. You, of course, speak for the sake of speaking. When they heard me say that we were going to ask for this, then it was when it happened to tell them to come to Vilagaría. Man, and say that a mayor who had been mayor for two years and had not yet been to visit the Intemar ever. And he had to go visit the Intemar when the 25th anniversary of the Intemar was celebrated. [[Applause]] Do you know what we have here in Galicia? It's just that really, I'm asking them not to have so many doubts, we all have to work for the sector, and that's what we're doing. We thought it was a bad decision at that time by the European Union to divide the functions of the Cefas lab, and it still seems like a bad decision. Now there's some other country that you understand as we do. And the Director General of DG Health himself asked us to follow the events that were to take place on January 1, 2019 and to notice some anomaly that we would resume it. That is why we never abandon the possible idea that they will reconsider their position in the European Union and that Galicia will be able to fulfil those functions if they do so.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u458	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u459	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-09-26-DSPG083.u460	Thank you. There's no more business. It ends here. Good afternoon.
