ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia number 332, of 5 July 2018, so we do not proceed to its reading. And we're on the agenda. As a first point: Debates of the European Parliament of the Galician Nationalist Block and the GG. PP. of En Marea and the Socialists of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u2	In accordance with Article 5.2 of Law 6/1984, of 5 July, once the procedure for the hearing was put into effect within the time limit set for the purpose, which ended on 9 July, and presented the written allegations by the institution of the Valator do Pobo (document 33296), the motions for termination were put forward. After the Council of Spokespersons' accord of July 3, this debate will consist of a single round of parliamentary groups to explain their position for a period of ten minutes per group. We therefore begin with the debate of the parliamentary groups and will then proceed to the vote on the proposals for the closure of the Valator. The turn of parliamentary groups, therefore. We started with the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rivas Cruz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. People's valet, institution created to ensure transparency and compliance with law in public administrations. And suddenly the bright label falls to us and runs into a thousand pieces on the floor. And it falls because below the superficial painting of the walls of the building — fresh in appearance — are the moistures of the old and rancio cacíquil system that embodies and banners the PP. These posts are for the chosen ones, for those who have always shown greater capacity for adaptation and integration in the modus vivendi and operandi of consolidated cacicism, and never really questioned by this rotre system of 78 which so well knew were some Spaniards. This can be read in the valuable paint layer that's below what's hidden by moisture. The Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia annuls the invitation to tender to cover 69 jobs of the Baltar Parliament — sorry, Ourense — and no one is blundering. "It has always been so," some say, "the big fish has always eaten the small fish," "they will hear others," "who sends the command," will ascribe the third parties. There will also be those who say: it is the PP and its tomorrows, those who corrupt everything, those who keep our country in poverty and slow down a creative and dynamic people, passing over reason and common sense, making arbitrary the most elementary democratic logic. It would be necessary to go to the People's Valley to see if this sentence gives something positive to democracy and thus returns something of trust to Justice. How? Who is involved and under confirmed suspicion is the same valet? No, oh! It would be contradictory in itself. That's right! It's not a rumor or a comment from the laundry or the tavern, it's a judgement from the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia that gives the alarm, there's nothing! It's not a new issue of a digital newspaper, from these babies to destabilize the system, no, it's a judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia in a litigation-administrative where it is proven arbitrariness in the decision and a diversion of power in the administrative proceedings in the appointment of María Puy Fraga as head of service. At this moment, in this House, the BNG has already called into question the election as the holder of the Valorative Lady, Mrs Otero, upon division between the PP and the Socialist Party of Galicia. His resume vitae led to a public commitment course with the PP and the right line of our suffering country. It could therefore be the visible head of transparency made institution, of impartiality that defends the weak in the face of the abuses of political-administrative machinery, frozen as January caravans. And it could have been, but it wasn't. It's ended by being the non-transparency of the institution created to ensure transparency. A whole exercise of political cynicism in a system that contradicted itself. And that's how we're going. We are once again in the hands of the People's Party in the institutions and that consist of coupons that violate the basic principles of equality, merit and capacity in access to public employment. We are in the face of arbitrary abuse of power, an election by the finger, trampling on the rights of other aspirants. What are they called posts of free designation? Go! Go! But were they not recommendations, looking for godfathers, the ham, the three kilos of trout to bother a gentleman? And isn't it called caciquism from time to time? For that, we continue to repeat a cacical system that allows the transparency of opacity, transparency of opacity, which imprisons on these four walls the serious and seductive debate of silence and impotence, of the divorce between hope and reality. Because, in the end, what this is about is that: that nothing changes and that we continue to discuss the change in small committee here, in confidence. New Duchess of Franco who claims he's lived his whole life without work, covered in the general quote magazine Ten minutes. Parasitism book definition: living from story to story by other people's accounts. Because for those of us who live in Greek the word "validor" can have conflicting meanings; I can put it by chance: "conceiver." And at the beginning of the proceedings brought by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, everything is earlier — I would like to show us Mrs Otero last Thursday. It initiates an already shameful action in itself for a democracy: post of free designation — pure euphemism, legalism for an irregularity. Well, start and then wash your hands and stay on the edge of the operation, shift your responsibility to a second. "Yes, but no. I didn't go." Nominations are also found not much from certain advice. In the definition of the criteria for job selection there is one that calls attention, subparagraph (e) "Accreditation and visualization of independence or impartiality and specialization in the defence of citizens' rights against administration". But this impartial criterion does not have the weight of two preeminent merits in itself that give consistency to the designation to the finger: two names with solemn and with accredited curriculum vitae; the pedigree made a democratic standard. And there's no more discussion or thought. BNG has already said so at the time when the People's Party and the Party of Socialists in Galicia distributed the Radiotelevision, the Board of Auditors and the Valedoria in the middle of August, the proper month to make these calls. And of Mrs Otero's impartiality and transparency, they knew the Bureau, the public health groups, those of hepatitis... they always stood on the side of the government. Now evil is done, disbelief is served, judgment is public and people don't believe what they see. We have an obligation to save the institution of the People's Valedory from that discredit in which it fell due to its antidemocratic use. The ball's on the People's Party roof. You'll say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u4	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u5	Thank you, President. Good morning. Only three years ago we voted from the Socialist Group to the people's valet, we voted in this same ballot. I voted for the people's valet myself. Today we are going to vote on your cessation. And things have changed. And today this debate really shouldn't be: the valet should have ceased since the moment she was withdrawn from the confidence of the three fifths of the House on Thursday in the Committee on Petitions, and then from this horrible interview she did in a German newspaper. The opposition groups were clear and round: there's no longer a majority of three fifths who want her, so she should have given up her position on the same Thursday last week, but she didn't. Today is a sad day when we have to remain faithful — as I shall explain later — that the people's valet lives in a virtual reality, has lost the perspective of reality; we really have a Valator Avatar. And forget it was this House who chose it for three fifths to be in front of an institution called the People's Valedor. And that will be in this House where we tell you that you no longer have the support of the 45 Members who support it on your day. So today is a very sad day for the institution. It's also because it's historical. It is the first time in all the autonomous communities of Spain and in the state that we debate in a legislative chamber the cessation of a valuator of the people. The institution was created to be a high commissioner of the Galician Parliament to defend public rights and freedoms and to be a beacon of transparency. She is no longer a Member of this Parliament, because she does not have the support of 45 Members. I shall speak of this judgment, which we all know, of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, which is not yet firm. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo shows a document]] But it's not true that they're just the opinions of three magistrates. Those who pronounced this sentence, when they dictated it, were judicial power. It's necessary for the valet to know too. And this sentence says very hard things. She speaks of numerous irregularities in abstention, of flagrant violation of the procedure, that the valet continued to intervene despite her abstention. And, reviewed the documentation we received at the meeting and yesterday, in extremes, it becomes clear that it was the very valet who indicated the criteria and merits to the coordinating board and to the authors of the report to select that candidate, for which a suit was made to measure; criteria that the valet justified in which they are in memory, memory that was not supported — said the court— precisely because there is no memory; and criteria that only knew the valet itself, that it had decided the valuer itself. The judgment speaks of the deviation of power, of arbitraryness in the resolution, that the election of that candidate was not motivated. And we do not discuss the merits of the candidate from the Socialist Parliamentary Group; we do not discuss the merits of the candidate. The judgment estimated the demand, annulled the resolution and imposed the costs: 1,500 euros of costs, which we would like to know who will pay. On Thursday the valedora came to the Committee on Petitions, because we jointly called on the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group to let us see, as I said before, that she lives in a virtual and parallel reality. First he said he was a delegate, then he said it was really a replacement, then he said he had generally abstained, then he said he abstained for a specific cause, then for a cause with regard to the candidate who was then elected, and then in the interview he said he also had two other friends on that list of eighteen people who competed at the same post. But for those two he didn't abstain, only he abstained for one, because he was defaulting to be the person elected to that post. The sentence says you have acted as a valet despite your delegation. The valet threw balloons out against all her team and the valet attached. Who will believe that, being elected the sister of the spokesperson for the People's Party Parliamentary Group, the deputy appointed by the PSdEG who decided the whole process and who was elected that person? It's an argument that the valet used and some voicer from another parliamentary group used in the appearance of the other day and that no one can believe outside. The valet did not specify the cause of abstention, initially because she considered — I said — that it is public knowledge that "I am a scholarly disciple of the father of one of the contestants", the elected one. Again virtual reality. The valet has conclined the principle of transparency. The call of the square was made in December 2015. The Transparency Act we approved in this House and entered into force in January 2016. How was it to be a criterion in December 2015 bound by a law of January 2016?, unless someone decided that it would be so, and that was the very valuator. In memory, no merit was specified that was needed — she recognized her own valet this Thursday — simply because there is no memory, there is no memory; only a strategic plan of the valator of the people that is not a memory and that could apply to this square or to any other of the institutions of the valet. The valet herself said she hadn't brought it up with the answer to the demand. This lady was a dean of the Faculty of Right and anyone knows that with demands and with answers it's mandatory to provide the documentation, because, if not, there's no chance to do it anymore. He also said that the memory is published on the Transparency Portal, but the Transparency Portal is not the DOG, it's not the Official Journal of Galicia. We'd like to know if these are the arguments they're going to use from the People's Valley for the appeal that's supposed to be brought in, because we're going to make the ridiculously ridiculous thing before the Supreme Court. The valet dropped the sentence, without prejudice to its appeal. Why execute it, if not yet firm? because he was sixty days after his firmness for his execution, according to this same sentence. The valet said the sentence points to some formal deficiencies that do not invalidate the initiated procedure and simply order its correction. Not true: the judgment annuls a resolution, does not correct, overrides a resolution and imposes costs. Finally, our parliamentary group thinks that Miracles Otero Parga is no longer legitimized to continue in office, because this judgment has made the notorious failure to comply with the obligations and duties of its office, as stated in article 5 of the Valedor Law. Because in the interview you did to a media, before you came to this House, you revealed that you do not respect the legislative power and, as I said before, your comments in that interview do not respect the judicial power, and especially because the prestige of the institution is already affected. There's an irreparable damage to the valet. Just as it had happened on its day in 2017 with the judgment of the Dispute Tribunal No. 1 of Santiago de Compostela, which condemned the Galician Advisory Council for a clumsy and unjustifiable agreement by the Council in the person of its President, for having been adopted by a body precisely designed to ensure that the procedural formalities were complied with. That's what the judgment of Santiago's Continent-Administrative No. 1 said, which is already firm. He also resorted to the Supreme Court in cassation, and we did the ridicule. The valet was proposed by the People's Party; the president of the Consultative Council was proposed by the People's Party; Baltar, the President of the House of Ourenses, is from the People's Party and has just been sentenced to parliament, through a sentence precisely from the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, for a selective process in the Parliament itself. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you have a problem with transparency. Today they could, if they wanted, give a picture that their party wants to pass page; it's in their hands. But they vote what the Members of the People's Party and the Members of the People's Party vote, this vote today will show that Miracles Otero Parga does not support, as I said at the outset, the three fifths of the people we have formed this House. "The Galician people will have to value who I am, what I have done," he said the other day in his interview. The people of Greece are represented here by the 75 Members and Members who make up this House, and of these 75 there are no 45 who support it in order to continue to be of value to the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u7	Good morning, gentlemen. This is not any debate. Today the People's Party has to be portrayed; it has to decide whether it is on the side of plugs, of clienteleism, of those who act arbitrarily using its power unduly; ultimately, whether it is on the side of the corrupt or, on the other hand, it recognises that it has been wrong to place trust in a person who has cheated this House and, since it has nothing to do with what the valet has done, it disclaims from it. Ladies and gentlemen, today in this House we are going to stand up if this Parliament withdraws the trust of the valet from the people after having been convicted of the institution that presides over their personal intervention in a matter of cliential placement of a person in an administration post violating fundamental rights of the other aspirants and impeding access to information on the proceeding to the court itself. It is precisely her, the court of the body, which is responsible for ensuring the fundamental rights of citizenship in the face of the abuses of administrations, who presides over the Galician Transparency Commission, as the judgement itself reproaches her. But this debate is something else, it's probably the most important debate we've ever given in legislation about political corruption. It's about deciding whether we're willing and willing or not to continue to tolerate that there are people who use public institutions for particular benefit to benefit their friends, their old bosses and to return favors to the party that put them in charge. The People's Party will be portrayed today: either it's with fundamental rights or it's with corruption. There is an institution condemned by a court sentence because its holder has trampled on fundamental rights, specifically those of equality, merit and capacity, because he despised the rest of the citizens, all to plug in a friend, all to plug Manuel Fraga's niece, all to plug in her former boss's daughter, all, gentlemen, to plug in, ultimately, the voicer sister of the People's Party in Parliament of Galicia. Either he's with the corrupt or he's with the democracy. There's no equivalence here. In fact, this should be the most important debate in legislation. Let us start by asking ourselves this question: why should we cease the valet of the people? The answer is simple: for the notorious failure to comply with the obligations of his office, which is a cause provided for in article 5 of the People's Valedor Law. And what are those obligations? —any listener might be asked. First of all, the defence of fundamental rights and public freedoms recognized in the Constitution, as stated in article 1 of its own law. Secondly, advise on transparency on the right of access to public information, as stated in Galicia's Transparency Act. Well, the High Court ruling annuls the appointment of Maria Puy Fraga to a job in the Valedoria for trampling down fundamental rights and hindering access to public information for stakeholders in the proceedings, which are just the two main orders that the valet has by law. This is clearly stated in the judgment when it indicates that there is evidence of arbitrariness in the decision and the deviation of power, being evident the defence that it causes in the plaintiff, explaining, moreover, that the infringement of the principles of equality, merit and capacity allows to incardinate the cause of nullity in the collection in Article 62 of the Law of Administrative Procedure, which requires it to collect the violation of fundamental rights which may be constitutionally protected. Nothing more and nothing less. A decision that has been taken — continues the sentence — for the desire to assist one of the candidates, with contempt for the assessment of the merits and attitudes of the other candidates and for the support of the selected candidate. What a shame, ladies and gentlemen, the institution condemned by a valet act in favor of a candidate friend of yours, who has trampled and, indeed, the sentence has despised fundamental rights, just as the order of article number 1 of the People's Valedora Law. It also said that it was not admissible for the abstention resolution to be not included and that it initially sought to hide the real reason that led to the abstention, and that the valet was reluctant to provide such information — I said the judgment — despite the fact that its status as the validator of fundamental rights and President of the Transparency Commission required her to be extremely scrupulously scrupulously in the matter. Indignity, gentlemen! That a court has to reproach Miracles Otero Parga, not to the institution, but to her, the physical person, to be precisely her who obstructs and hides information from a court, she, who has the function of ensuring the transparency of administrations and who provides information to citizens. The one responsible for transparency, concealing his own shame; a real democratic blow. A conviction to an institution as a result of the actions of a particular person who acts in an unworthy, corrupt manner, who tramples on citizens' fundamental rights to benefit a friend of his; who violates the right to equality, to merit, to capacity; who despises the people of Galicia; who lies, who conceals information from citizens and even to a court. Yes, they caught her plugging a friend, the boss's daughter, the sister in charge of the party that put her at her post, who now uses, with abuse of power, to return that favor. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, there are sufficient reasons to wake up the closure of the valet. If with these evidences, based on proven facts of a sentence, the People's Party does not want to stop the Valator, it would be good for you to do what he did; hence, he will have the opportunity to portray himself. It must then be the People's Party, with Nuñez Feijó at the front, who explains what interests conceal this support. We should then perhaps ask who benefits the valet by trampling on the citizens' fundamental rights. Who owes the valet so much to risk doing what she did? Was she just a friend of the valet? Was she for being your boss's daughter at the university? Was it because I was the sister of the parliamentary spokesman who put her in charge of the valet? Is this the price paid in the People's Party for free-denomination charges? What's going on to stop her? They've already caught her in the fragant trampling on other people's rights and laughing at a courtroom, lying to a courthouse, ultimately, to keep the truth hidden. Let's ask ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, who protects the valet by lying to a court of law. Who is so important that it is worthwhile for the valet to risk her own reputation, her own curriculum, her own trajectory to reach the safe end of her institutional life in such an unworthy way? This is a debate, ladies and gentlemen, about a corrupt political system where a lady abuses her position of power in an institution to thank her for her appointment to the party that placed her. And to the full, to this plenary, it is up to him to decide whether he does anything or whether, on the contrary, censures this corrupt way of acting. Let's talk clearly: who's the valedora? It is the university disciple of the brother-in-law of Fraga, Tertullian in the media at the moment the proposal of the People's Party, proposed as a valuator of the people by the People's Party. What does the valet do with this cascade, declared in court? Then return favors to friends and parties. Let us speak clearly: to whom does the Valator benefit? He benefits his boss's daughter at the university, as she herself stated she was public and notorious, who is niece of Fraga and also sister of the current spokesperson of the People's Party in this House. Let's speak clearly: who is the whiter of graves in this cause? Martínez Girón, right-wing professor of work, to whom the court itself in the judgment questions for not having any knowledge about what he had to report and who also hurts his work, since he does not issue reports on all the curricula, but only about that person Otero Parga wanted to put in. Is it possible that a professor would do his job wrong? Well, if we note that Girón is a member of the Galician Election Board by the People's Party, whose proposal was signed by Pedro Puy himself, we find it easier to understand that he had no problem accepting such an order. Is it a coincidence? Surely it must be a coincidence. The member of the People's Party on Electoral Union, proposed by Pedro Puy Fraga, hurts his charge and ends up benefiting Maria Puy Fraga. Even if it's random, political aesthetics are questioned. Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a totally corrupt political intruder in paying favors and customerism. The PP supports the valet in this trance to protect its client network, to protect the survival of an institution corrupted by its holder for the particular benefit of the valet itself and the party that named it. He supports the valet, ultimately, also to protect its parliamentary spokesman. The People's Party here has the opportunity to portray itself: either with corruption and plug-in or with fundamental rights and democracy. Maintaining the position of the niece of Manuel Fraga, sister of the popular spokesman in this House, trampling on fundamental rights, as stated in the sentence, of the people and obstructing the work of the courts themselves, is something which, if the People's Party does not censure, will pay dearly. Because Galicia doesn't deserve to go through this jug and live in this shame. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u8	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the request for the closure of the people's valet by two groups: the Socialist Party, by the hand of the Tide of Podemos. And, in this sense, what we have to value, before we vote, is whether the holder of the people's Valedor institution actually complied with his duties. From the People's Parliamentary Group we believe that yes, that it fulfils its obligations, because it not only presents its reports and ordinary memoirs, but also some extraordinary subjects that concern us or should concern us all, for example, the extraordinary report on disability that it brought to this House last week and in which the rest of the groups abstained from participating and therefore seriously disregarding their obligations as Members and as Members; a report on the disability that the opposition groups have neglected, also disregarding the work of the organizations that participated in that report. The valet performs its duties when it almost immediately ceases the adjudicatery of the square in conflict, in less than forty-eight hours, when it had a period of sixty days by the sentence we are talking about today. But it's just that, in addition, she fulfills her obligations when she asks the Board for more transparency in the management of the waiting lists. She fulfills her obligations when she asks the Board not to diminish the quality of the care. She fulfills her obligations when she attends 25,000 files more than the previous year. She fulfils her obligations when she considers it unworthy that cases of energy poverty have not found a way out. She meets the valet when she carries out a campaign to introduce the institution to the rural territory of Galicia, and that increases the complaints in that territory. She fulfills her obligations when she goes to the bank to intercede for people who were being abused by banks. She fulfills her obligations when she addresses the Town Hall of Santiago in the face of her inoperability when she lets the homeless of the city die. But this, ladies, they didn't like the tides of Podemos. The valet has only to meet her obligations by criticizing the Union and not the municipalities governed by tides, because, according to them, she was getting involved in politics. You have asked the valet's resignation on repeated occasions, and they all had as their bottom the fulfilment of their obligations by defending the most disadvantaged, being the homeless Compostela or being the retirees who did not charge Venezuela's pension. Today they take one more step in their career of destroying institutions, but as a novelty today they have a partner in this demolition of institutions; that partner is the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Today they claim to hold the people's valet because there's an insignificant ruling that gives reason to a plaintiff in a process of providing free-denomination squares. And we must examine whether the actions of the people's valet in this process have met their obligations or not. And, in view of the presence of the Valator of the People's Party, along with the deputy to the valet, the documentation that brought together the two attendings and the allegations presented by the institution yesterday afternoon, we believe that today, for the first time, we have more information than the court. And there may have been errors in the administrative file, and there may have been a mistake in the valet defence strategy, but from the study of the documentation provided there is no doubt that there was no deviation from power on the part of anyone. Ladies and gentlemen, we're not in court office here. So we don't have to assume the judicial postulates, but rather build -- as you said the other day in the audience -- a political trial based on the documentation we have. And, of course, don't manipulate it and say you put what you don't, because we already have a lot of trouble with the documentation, but you're going to be able to manipulate the information. And it's there so everyone can read it. With regard to the determination of the criteria for the selection of aspirants, you start from the false premise that the valet knew some names and made a square according to a person. Well, for the People's Parliamentary Group it has been found that this is not true. It is not true, because, first, the merits that were requested for the exercise of this square are not only in Article 30 of the Valador's Rules of Procedure — which is known and published by all — but also in this memory that Mrs. Patricia Vilán says that there is no such thing. I've already shown it in the valet's appearance and attachment to last week's valet, because it's on the website available to everyone. And maybe the court hadn't met him because no one had brought him in. But Members and Members have an obligation to know it, because in addition to these strategic axes, these lines of the strategic plan are cited in the memories that we usually debate in this House. And who doesn't know them and who read them to us, at best, what had to be asked is whether he is fulfilling his duties as a Member or a Member. Well, in this memory, three of the requirements are established, the final merits that you say have been tailored. Well, from those three, I'd only give you two. So that torpedoes committed the institution that did not design the three but the two! Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we consider that there is no design for anyone, but that we are talking about objective needs designed previously for the summons, and the proof is this document. And I'm sure if the court had this document, the judgment would have another result. But since we are not doing a judicial procedure, but we are valuing whether or not the valet has fulfilled its duties, we in view of this document can say that the square was not made to fit. Ladies and gentlemen, the attaching to the valet in its resolution of 4 March, which you all have at your disposal, and that someone unwittingly, Mr. Villares, this weekend manipulated, saying that the valet acted in March when the square was already convened. Look, Mr. Villares, if you read the documents, because if you tell me that you read them is much more serious, Mr. Villares, because I recognize you at least the question that you have some legal knowledge, then if you read the documents you could see, for example, in document 8, which is the act of the second meeting... yes, I don't think you have read them, because I read the papers this weekend, and if you read them, it has manipulated us. [[Interruptions.]] You're acting in bad faith. [[Murmurs.]] And act in bad faith, Mr. Villares, it's not right. It says point 1: "Before the meeting begins, he leaves the meeting room together to the valet of the people, Miracles Otero, for competing cause of abstention in the matter which integrates the agenda." Point 2: "Deputy opens the meeting, acting by delegation dated 25 January 2016." Mr. Villares, I don't know if you've read this. You were talking about March, and the record of this meeting is about January. And, Miss Patria Vilán, you who really like to talk about the issues that are learned in the beginning of right, look, when someone refrains from getting to know in a file, he abstains from all the candidates, not just one. Mrs Vilán, you say that here the Valorative Lady has refrained from meeting only one candidate, and not, Mrs Vilán, has refrained from knowing each and every one of the candidates who have come to this place. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, whether the report by the Professor of Labour says or not that it has been induced by the Valorative Lady, the truth is that it is surprising that you say that in that report it is said that the requirements and merits induce the Valorative. It is clear that they are in this document, ladies and gentlemen, when we read -- I don't know if to read it because, actually, after listening to you give me the impression that you haven't read it -- when it explains the requirements it says at the end -- listen, listen, because as I see that you haven't read it -- "All these requirements set the very essence of the Valedor institution." All of them, all of them. [[Mrs. Prado del Río displays a multi-page document.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And why? Because they're at the heart of Valador's institution, they're on strategic lines, gentlemen. Then they don't read a part and they read the whole thing. Therefore, the judgment is clear that this is obvious, but because you do not know this document. But we do know him or we should meet him, gentlemen. As far as we're talking about a free designation and not a merit contest, you mix everything here, and free designations are a very common procedure in all administrations. Yes, Mr. Villares, you say it's a corrupt practice, and, look, do you know what happens to corrupt practices? That the Council of Coruña had cancelled eleven free designations—that is not corruption!—of the area of urbanism. [[Interruptions.]] That, Mr. Villares, who then buys the apartments for the Marea signatories. [[Murmurs.]] That's corruption, Mr. Villares; those are the dirty hands that have to be removed from politics. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we do not doubt the honourableness or honesty of the spokesman of our group; we are absolutely sure that it has not influenced this procedure at all. And I can also say that none of that bench thinks so. I'm sure each and every one of you is convinced that Spokesman Puy Fraga did not influence that procedure. You're using this matter to arrest an honest person and despise a person's political honour, and they also carry an institution. [[Applause]] And they do it, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of chance. [[Applause]] Look, I could also quote here a list of coincidences, Mr. Villares, of relatives and friends of magistrates and magistrates, but no, I'm not going to enter the lodazal you proposed here; in the lodazal I leave you alone and whoever wants to accompany you, we don't. I know that you hung up your toga — because you said it in one of your first interviews — because in the judiciary you couldn't make justice. You were the one who chose to pass from court to justice. But we're not, we're not going to do anybody's justice today, Mr. Villares. If you want to continue to praise the worthy political work of a person, of a family, of a professor, of a valet and of a whole institution, there you and those who accompany you in that ludazal!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u11	We're not going in. [[Applause]] Mrs. Vilan, you mentioned here that there was a pact to name the valet. You...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u12	I told him I was finishing up. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u13	...—Yes, yes—It surprises you to act by asking for the ending of the valet from the minute one without listening to it and without considering the group with which that appointment was agreed to a solution. I don't know if you want the valet to stop or if the valet's attached to the valet in function.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u15	And if it is believed that the valet has influenced the procedure, it is clear that someone has allowed himself to be influenced. And here or asking for more cessations, or not one.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u16	Thank you. Your time is up, Mrs. Stop.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u17	Yes, just one thing: we're not going to make firm decisions when there's no firm judgment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u19	So today we are not going to vote for the closure of the valet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u20	Thank you. Voting of proposals for the closure of the people
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u21	At the end of the debate, the proposals made by the parliamentary groups of the Nationalist Block Galego and En Marea and the Socialist Group are now being voted on. We can vote them together, if they don't oppose. The vote shall be held by means of a ballot and by alphabetical order in accordance with Article 91 of the Galician Parliament's Rules of Procedure. For these purposes, papers have been drawn up in which they appear under the wording of the proposals for the termination of the valator of the people who put to the vote three boxes: "Yes", "No" or "Abstention". "Yes", in favour of the Valator's cessation proposal. "No," contrary to the Valator's cessation proposal. And "abstention", which is neither in favour nor against proposals for cessation. And Members will vote by marking one of the boxes. Empty votes are considered when you have any different rescheduling or annotation, and blank votes when no marked box is present. I remind your lords that for the cessation of the valator of the people, according to Article 5.2 of Law 6/1984 of 5 June, if you require the favourable vote of the three fifths of the members of the House, that is, 45 votes. They're already handing out the paperwork. And once we've split up, we'll start the call vote, done by the bureau secretary, Mrs. Raquel Arias Rodríguez. And I beg you that the vice president first and the vice-secretary will be next to the ballot box. Let's proceed. Madam Secretary, call Members and Members.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u22	Thank you. Is there any Member or Member left to vote? Don't you? [[Pause.]] Well, we proceed to the scrutiny. [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, the proposals for the cessation of the people's Valator are rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u23	We now move on to item 2 of the agenda, which are legislative texts. Debates and votes of the Ditame issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the Proposal for a Law, to refer to the Congress of Deputies, Organization for the Transfer of Ownership and Skills from AP-9 to Galicia, and, where appropriate, to the establishment of the number of members of the Chamber responsible for their defence and subsequent designation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u24	Particular votes have been put forward and also amended; in particular, individual votes from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and amendments from the En Marea Parliamentary Group. The president of Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, Mr Jaime Castineira, has the floor for the presentation of the dictation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u25	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. This bill, to present before the Congress of Deputies, an organ for the transfer of the title and powers of the AP-9 motorway to the Autonomous Community of Galicia, was introduced by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego in the Register of the Chamber on 27 November 2017 and with a registered agreement 20737. Following its unanimous consideration of the plenary session on 8 May 2018 and after the deadline for the submission of amendments to the joint text on 1 June, with the formulation of a total of twelve amendments — five of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, three of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, four of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia — the Presidency was designated in Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services on 14 June. And after its constitutive session at the end of the meeting, chaired by Ms Marta Nóvoa Iglesias, Vice-President of this committee, and with the rapporteurs entitled Mr Martín Fernández Prado — of the People's Parliamentary Group — Mr Antón Sánchez García — of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea — Mr Xoaquín Fernández Leicea — and Mr Xosé Luís Bará Torres — of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego — issued a report on 19 June, with the assistance of the rapporteurs Mr Fernández Prado, Mr Sánchez García, Mr Fernández Fernández and Mr Bará Torres. Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, at its meeting on 26 June, adopted by 9 votes in favour and 2 abstentions the opinion I am presenting, by debate and vote at this plenary session, as well as the two particular votes presented by the BNG Parliamentary Group and the amendments maintained by the En Marea Parliamentary Group. It is therefore necessary to complete the processing of this special legislative procedure with the approval, if any, of the Bill of Parliament, of this Parliament, to present before the Congress of Deputies, an organic transfer of the title and competences of the AP-9 motorway to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u26	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. We began with the turn of the parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, to defend the particular votes presented and the amendments maintained. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. We'll try again on this camera for the third time, after we did it in March 2016 and in May 2017, the AP-9 Transfer Act. And we have to say that it is the responsibility of the People's Party that we have to be debating and approving for the third time in this parliament in three years a law on this matter. I'm going to focus on my intervention on three questions: First, the basic question about AP-9 and the need for its transfer to Galicia. Secondly, we will make the position on the ditam and the defense of the original text presented by the BNG, defend through our private votes. And thirdly, our position on the representation of the Greek Parliament in the defence of the law in Madrid, with a concrete proposal that we bring to this debate of approval of the decision on two issues. One first question, of a formal nature, is that this issue has not been dealt with at the Council of Spokesmen, and there is no urgency for it to be done at this moment, because we know that the deadlines for processing, approval and debate of the law are very much dilated. And secondly, because logic and justice do not seem to us to think that the BNG, who was the promoter, the promoter of these laws, is out of the question of its defence in Parliament. And we think there are formulas — and we will defend them here — so that this can be done with time, with readiness and without interference in those deadlines, which, I say, are very much dilated. Well, the first question, the basic question, brings us a little to the absurdity — as I said — of adopting in three years a law of transfer of AP-9. And this can really be thought that it's hard to be publicly explained to people why these things happen. Well, they happen because there are deep causes and concrete causes that lead us to this situation. And this theme I think it gives us a deep and clear lesson in history and politics, because it expresses in a round way Galician political dependence, the lack of decision-making and intervention capacity in matters that are key to the well-being and collective future, such as, for example, the management by ourselves of our infrastructures. In that sense, we can say that AP-9 is the perfect example of a plot against Galicia, an alliance of great economic powers, IBEX companies, voyeur companies, which are authentic predators of our resources, with political groups protecting their interests. And there is a direct determining cause, which is the role of the state parties that rule in Madrid — and I express reference to the People's Party, though not only — and in Galicia protecting interests outside our country. They act by delegation, by submission, by litigation and by vassalage to Madrid, and I think AP-9 is the clearest example of this, thus giving coverage to exploitation, the spousal and the theft of our resources. As I said, this attitude has names and surnames, and the ultimate responsibility — let us say it here again, as often as it needs — is the People's Party for the political veto in the State Parliament to deal unanimously with the laws adopted in the Greek Parliament. And this has been done with the complicity and convolence of you, Members and Members of the People's Party sitting in this House. And what is the argumentary of the Central Government and the People's Party? These are false and misleading arguments that sometimes have technical arguments, other times budget arguments or political arguments. The supposed technical reasons tell us that it is an itinerary of general interest, including an international traffic route and European interest. By the way, this argument, such as it, has been repeated by ministers or ministers of State Government Development over the past 12 years, with governments of different colors that have used exactly this argument. Then they tell us about supposed budgetary reasons, about the economic impact. Of 4,300, nearly 5,000 million euros were raised in the public archives in an absolute lack of rigour, a real mess, because they invented a figure that is the result of multiplying the revenues that the concessionaire had in 2014 for the remaining years of the concession. In fact, we know that the reasons are of a political nature, some believable and others do not, and who most clearly expressed it was Minister Gomez de la Serna, when he said that he was not transferred because he was from the State; he was from the State and therefore the State could not dissipate from this infrastructure. And they even came to say that the sacred unity of the state was threatened, at the moment of the highest tension in the autumn of 2017. In fact, we think there's a political reason that weighs more, which is that the sale of the concession is at stake; a billionaire business that is a powerful reason not to touch the transfer, because we're talking about millionaire benefits for thirty years that exceed the 1,500 million euros — from there to above — therefore, it's a succulent business, there's an operation on sale of that concession, and any change in the AP-9 situation shocks those plans, so it's not touched, it's not touched. In fact, we are faced with an intolerable contubernance, because there is a veto not only for the transfer, but, what is even more serious, for the parliamentary process. You do not allow democracy to function, that if a law is passed in Parliament that will then, in any case, be subject to debate and changes, changes and amendments, whatever is needed; but what needs to be facilitated is the processing of the law. And this, in addition, made it clear both the Constitutional Court and the Juridical Counsel of Congress, with absolutely powerful reports that denounce and criticize the government's abuse of the article of the Constitution that allows it to veto the processing of laws for budgetary reasons. Now I don't have time, but, in any case, on the second round, we can focus on that argument, which is, I say, absolutely powerful and demolition, because in practice what it does is to veto Congress's legislative capacity and seek an absolutely intolerable interference from executive power over Lexislative power. The BNG has denounced, denounces here today and will continue to denounce the need for the second speech of the People's Party, which says something here and the contrary in Madrid, which votes in the German Parliament in favour of the law and vetoes its proceedings in the Congress of Deputies. And besides, you're done, you're out. [[Applause]] We have to recognize that they are close to perfection in the different degrees of Galician betrayal. There's an album of drawings by Luis Seoane that are The Thirteen prints of treason. You've already passed the thirteen prints of treason, because the People's Party, in the history of AP-9, chose the role of Judas, of traitor; that was the role that the People's Party chose. I mean, they came to do it that day of shame, on December 13, 2016, voting in favour here and against Madrid on the same day. They've passed all possible marks. Of course, at the BNG we are not prepared to allow this contempt, this mockery, this new humiliation to the Greek people, this lack of respect for Parliament. We're not going to get tired, we're not going to give in, we're not going to stop — as Castelao said — until this shame is over. It is a matter — we have said so many times — of respect and dignity, of loyalty to this country and this Parliament, which cannot be used as a currency of exchange. With regard to the issue of ditam, entering into matter — or in flour, as it is popularly said — our position on the dictate and on the particular votes is now given in a context where there are some novelties. There is a change of roles between the People's Party and the PSOE in the Government of the State, and the truth is that we now attend — no more with astonishment, because we are no longer astonished at anything of the People's Party — that change of shirt to which the spokesman, Mr. Fernández Prado, referred to in a radio interview. Sometimes you have to put on one T-shirt, sometimes another; now you've changed your T-shirt. Mr. Feijóo used to have an attitude of complicity with the central government and now he has an attitude of necessity. It used to be Manolito and now it's Mafalda, right? He's changed paper. We need to see now what the position of the PSOE in the government of the state is going to be, and we have to say that the precedents are not very hopeful. I could refer to those statements by Minister Magdalena Álvarez and Minister José Blanco, who used that argumentary of technical reasons to which I referred earlier. In any case, we hope that there will be a change of attitude on the part of the Socialist Party and that this refusal which they expressed on previous occasions to transfer will now become a firm support not only in this Parliament, but also in the Parliament of the State, by the Central Government, which cannot continue to put those vetoes which it has set up so far. I don't know if it was because of this change in the state view that the People's Party and the Socialist Party agreed on a joint and common text in the dictatorship that means to lower and decafine the original proposal. BNG has decided to keep the original text. In any case, we accept some technical amendments that we understand improve drafting but we prefer to keep the original text through private votes and, above all, through the additional third provision, which speaks of a possible rescue of the concession, in which the costs, logically, will have to be assumed by the State for many reasons I will quote below. So even though the second version, the lowered version, was also approved and also rejected by the Government of the State, by the People's Party at the Congress Bureau, we prefer to continue to maintain and defend these proposals of maximums, because, in any case, there will be time to apply the barrage to the laws, which is something they have already done and they know a lot about in the State Parliament, especially with laws approved in Catalonia. Why then stand up for the original proposal? First, because we have to aspire to maximum, which is most beneficial to Galicia. And what's most beneficial to Galicia is the transfer of AP-9, but also the possibility, the option, the need to rescue the concession and the elimination of abusive sins. Secondly, because the State owes Galicia a debt in general and especially in relation to AP-9. In addition to all the decisions that have benefited the concessionaire, AP-9 — I am not going to stop on these issues now because we have talked about them many times now — I have made millions of revenue for the central buildings via privatization and also through taxes. It is considered that the revenues I have received for the State since 2000 exceed EUR 2 billion. So there's more reason for that rescue to be done and for the state to do. Third, because the State no longer invests in Galicia more than 2,000 million euros in the period 2012-2017 for low budget execution. And fourthly, by the comparative aggravation of the rescue of Madrid's radials, which can account for more than 4 billion euros for public buildings. By the way, leading to failure to meet the objectives of the deficit, which is a sacred dogma for this government — for the previous and this — and which in this case the People's Party has decided to fail. And in case it wasn't enough for all of these reasons, one more thing is that right now the decision to nationalize and liberalise motorway fees that are the same time as AP-9, which ends the concession these years, between 2018 and 2021, has been adopted. So we want the same deal, nothing but that. The Minister of Development has just announced the rescue of these concessions and the elimination of fees, and in Galicia we want the same for AP-9. Therefore, given that there are only three highways in the State which have periods of granting the maximum legal maximum of 75 years and two of them are in Galicia — one of them is AP-9 — it does not seem fair to us to maintain this situation. For all this, we believe that the transfer of AP-9 would be a step forward and very positive, but we aspire to the maximum, so we also want to include that additional third provision, which speaks of the fact that if the Autonomous Community agrees to the relief of the concession, it will have to be borne by the Government of the State, the General Administration of the State. Finally, of course this seems to us to be a question of justice, but it also seems to us a question of justice which does not exclude the BNG from the defence of this law in the State Parliament. Because if there was DNA evidence in the processing, the management, the creation of laws, of course this law has the motherhood and paternity of BNG. So because of that formal flaw of what I talked about at the beginning and because there is time to deal with this issue and to decide on it, there is no need to make a decision here today, we think that it is better to tackle this issue, and we will propose a reform of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which gives a double alternative so that it can be properly resolved, in a fair way, this question. First. That the group author and promoter of a law always participates in that representation. It seems logical to us, it seems fair to us, it seems reasonable to us. And, second. The possibility of increasing the number of representatives from 3 to 4 so that there is one representative for each parliamentary group. I mean, there's time to do it, you can do it for a single reading procedure, you can operate this change of regulation in September, and you'd give us room for the BNG...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u28	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u29	...participate in this representation. It seems fair to us, it seems logical to us, it seems reasonable to us, and it agrees with what was the role of BNG in defence not only in this legislation, but also in the past, in the State Parliament, in the transfer of AP-9 and in the elimination...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u31	...the abusive sins. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u32	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Once again, the AP-9, the freeway of the Atlantic, maintains its protagonistship in this House; a role, without a doubt, deserved and a cause for permanent recognition, and also regret, because of the circumstances surrounding it. And also in claim, to recognize its relevance to Galicia, to claim the necessary initial relevance for the benefit of the Greeks and the Greeks. The relevance of AP-9 is collected in this House's Diary of Sessions, through multiple praises of Members and Members during successive legislation. For several legislations, and more intensively in the past and the present, parliamentary groups value the role of AP-9 in the Galician road network, we recognize its importance for Galicia and the added value that can bring us with management from Galicia and Galicia. This shared recognition took shape in 2016 with the approval of the Galician Parliament of the Proposal for an Organic Law on Transfer of the Headship of Competition of AP-9 to the Galician Union. This initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block was supported unanimously by this House. The debate in this House on AP-9 therefore seemed to be outdated as to the position of the groups and on the title and competences. Unfortunately this did not happen, and that was not the case because Mr Rajoy's Government ruled out the debate in the Congress of Deputies, alleging that some aspects of the text adopted in the German Parliament were inappropriate. And this Parliament, far from submission and surrender, was able to react and understand this veto as a discriminatory decision against Galicia. Thus, the flexibility of parliamentary groups made it possible to transform the original bill, vetoed by Mr Rajoy's executive, by modifying those aspects used as an alibi to be taken into consideration by the Congress of Deputies, and thus making it easier for the initiative to be effective. This flexibility allowed the People's Parliamentary Groups of Galicia, In Marea, Galician Socialists and Nationalist Block Galego, through their spokespersons, to submit to the Parliamentary Bureau the Bill to refer to the Congress of Deputies, organic, transfer of the ownership and competences of AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. This reopened the global debate on AP-9, with its virtues and shortcomings, with its benefits and prejudices, with its management model, which brings together beneficiaries and prejudices, with which it is AP-9 and what it should be. On 9 May 2017, the Galician Parliament unanimously approved this joint initiative without amendment, shielded from the legal and economic point of view. And again, once again, Mr. Rajoy's Government, supported in an unfavorable report by the Ministry of Development, again vetoed the debate in the Congress of Members on the basis of the Bureau, with the majority conservative. A report by the Ministry of Development, full of legal, technical and economic indications. There were no legal, technical, or economic reasons for refusal, because AP-9 runs entirely through Greek territory, because AP-9 does not connect directly with either Portugal or the autonomous neighbouring communities with Galicia — Asturias and Castela-León — because AP-9 does not connect directly with ports of general interest located in Galicia, because it does not connect directly with airports. Because the transfer from AP-9 to Galicia does not prevent it from continuing to be integrated into the Trans-European Transport Network, as has happened in transfers of highways in the Basque Country, A-8, and in Catalonia, A-17 and A-19. The report contained no arguments for the veto, but it was banned. It had to be the Constitutional Court who considered that veto inappropriate. From our point of view, the current management of AP-9 minimizes its potential and sneezes its deficiencies in terms of general interest. We must remember that the motorway of the Atlantic is the receiver and distributor of the greatest traffic density of Galicia; it connects five of the seven main cities of Galicia; it supports and channels the intense road traffic of cities, towns and towns of the Atlantic Strip, where 60% of the population of Galicia and around 70% of Galicia's economic activity. AP-9 plays a decisive role in the integration and articulation of the Welsh road system, boosting mobility and ordering and generating road communication systems. With this importance that we give to AP-9, the Socialist Group prefers a scenario of unity, where all political forces can match. We are convinced that the unity of the proposal strengthens the final objective. In recent years, on a subject as relevant as what we are dealing with, transfer of the ownership and competence of AP-9 from the State to the Autonomous Community of Galicia, there have been three moments to remember in this Parliament. The first was when the German Parliament validated the request for 49 transfers proposed by the Government of Pérez Touriño, including the transfer of AP-9. Unfortunately, the Popular Group in Spain adopted the strategy of dividing that request into the Joint Transfers Commission, making it insomable. In 2016 we discussed and passed a bill to refer to Congress of Deputies, an organ for the transfer of ownership and competences from AP-9 to the Galician Union. The veto of the People's Government has prevented its debate in the Congress of Deputies. And in 2017, on May 9, 2017, this House unanimously approved, without amendment, a joint bill of law from the People's Parliamentary Groups of Galicia, In Marea, Galician Socialists and Nationalist Block Galego to refer to Congress of Deputies, an organizational transfer of the ownership and competences of AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Once again, most of the Conservative Bureau banned its debate in Congress. Nebargent, the novelty was that the Constitutional Court considered that veto unappropriate. Your Honor, I have reported these three situations on AP-9 to put us in context. The three were vetoed, but in one of them, only one, that veto was annulled by the Constitutional Court, and that was the one we jointly introduced all the House groups and approved unanimously on 9 May 2017. So we believe that this way of doing it, together; and the background, a shared and armored text in the most vulnerable aspects, marks the way forward. With this conviction, the Socialist Group voted in favour of taking into account this proposed law of the Galician Nationalist Block, and at the same time we announced that in its process we would try to improve it, we would try to return to the formulation which came out unanimously of this Parliament, by modifying the corresponding transitional provisions to prevent there from being any element in the Congress of Deputies - which I called "gretes" during my intervention - which the Government grabs to prolong the process. We do not want to take that risk, so we concretely announce the improvement of the text to claim the text adopted on 9 May 2017, presenting five amendments in the process of processing this bill. Amendment No 1 to amend, which affects the title. Amendment number 2, modification, which affects the additional layout first. Amendment number 3, deletion, which affects additional provision third, and amendments numbers 4 and 5, modification, which affect the explanatory statement. With your approval and consistent incorporation into the dictatorship, we understand that we have complied with the announcement of improving the text and identifying it with the approved text on May 9, 2017. A pity, a pity, on the subject which Mr Bará had previously addressed in his intervention. These days it has been announced that several state highways will stop paying fees in the coming years. For example, AP-1 Burgos-Armenion, ceases to charge fees in August 2021; or the AP-7 plot Zaragoza-Mediterranean, also in August 2021; or the AP-7 plot Montmeló-El Patiol, also in August 2021, or the next stretch of AP-7, Alicante-Tarragona, in December 2019. Like AP-4, Seville-Cádiz, in December 2019; or AP-1, Burgos-Armign, in August 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, the AP-9 concession ended in 2023 in a few years. We must always remember the damage that has meant that Mr Aznar has granted an extension of the 25-year concession. If the horizon of the highways I just listed ends in 2019 or 2021, within one to three years, AP-9 will complete its concession within thirty years. Finally, Mr President, as I have said, with the adoption of the amendments tabled by the Socialist Party, which we have identified with the text adopted on 9 May 2017. With that incorporation, as I say, we will support the dictation issued by Commission 2a. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u34	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Fernández. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u35	Good morning. After attending the vote where the People's Party voted itself to entuffism and impunity for its own, and hearing Paula Prado say that we came to turn Parliament into a lodazal, paradoxes of life!, I wanted to clarify a question to her and Mr. Tellado, before the accusation that we do not read the documents, question that may later corroborate Mr. Fernández Prado, that sentence to which they allude, of eleven seats, of free designation of the Council of the Crown, it is true — let Mr. Tellado be colored, of course — but they were appointed by the People's Party in 2014. You have to read the documents! [[Applause]] "against the resolution of the Mayor Lieutenant and the Staff Delegate of the City of La Coruña dated 24 September 2014, dismissing the repositioning remedy filed on 27 August 2014 against the agreement of the Local Board of Government of the City of A Coruña.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh In 2014 he ruled the Picachu party, so I know. So read and don't lie, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u36	To the point. Let's go with AP-9
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u37	Don't lie and don't come to be a praiser of this Parliament. That's because I don't put on a replica shift. That is why we have to take advantage of this intervention. If they put on a replica shift, as we asked at the Speakers' Board, we could clarify it and pedagogy it with Mrs. Paula Prado, who needs it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u38	Let's go with AP-9, which is a very important issue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u39	But it was probably also the nerves I had in the intervention. Come here to defend what you've defended, it's normal for you to put it a little nervous, and you noticed it. That's probably why. We are debating this AP-9 transfer law for the third time in this Parliament in Galicia. Why would it be? Why is it not approved in the Galician Parliament? Why is there no unanimity? Don't! We vote for it because the People's Party, that party that is a guarantor of the unity of Spain, votes here one thing and another in the Congress of Deputies. And it is because Mr Rajoy's Government — which is so exemplary in his exercise — has anti-democraticly blocked the handling of this proposal for a law which has unanimously voted in this Parliament — in a very tracing and anti-democratic way, yes sir, as he has done with thirty other laws. Now even the Constitutional Court has to put things in their place and say what we said here in previous interventions: that Rajoy's Government has used bad arts to prevent the transfer of AP-9 democratically to the Congress of Deputies. Because they knew it was happening and they weren't blocking it, there would be a majority enough to decree the transfer of AP-9. And for the third time we can also say that we have not guaranteed that the People's Party will support this bill in Madrid when it arrives there. We don't have it either. That party that guarantees unity, you can't guarantee that you'll vote the same thing here as in Madrid even now. And that, of course, can already turn this into a little circus. Come here to debate something, unanimous agreement of the German Parliament, a strategic infrastructure... to get Madrid and the People's Party to vote against! And then we'll also see what the Socialist Party is doing now in government, see if it goes on the same line and supports the transfer, or if the government virus enters it. In fact, Mr. Raúl Fernández spoke of supporting the text that came out unanimously the second time, when the possibility of rescue and reversion to the public was withdrawn, because he believes he has more chance of prospering because of the Constitutional Court's ruling, and I say no. The Constitutional Court only says that the decisions or the adoption of this law must be implemented and demonstrated to the extent that the budgets of this exercise are affected by decisions or by the adoption of this law. And then the first transfer law, which also counted on the section at the additional provision of the public reversal, did not directly affect the budgets of the present exercise because it spoke hypothetically. If the Galician Union had decided, if it had decided to reverse to the public, the State would have to bear the costs derived from that reversal, and so would it. We did not fall into the trap of the People's Party, because what has been done is a scandalous trap, a scandalous management of institutions to prevent them from going forward to democratically approved laws. In the face of this third debate, I mean that the evidence of corruption has expelled the People's Party of the Government of the State. Gürtel's trial and judgment have shown society very clearly the nature of the People's Party. They weren't isolated cases, formed an intruder to delinquent. It showed part of the structural nature of the People's Party. But the effects of the Gürtel plot, the economic effects themselves, are small, is the chocolate of the oyster. There is another major corruption: the use of institutions and legislation to benefit private interests at the expense of general interest. In this big-scale corruption, we can frame the history of AP-9, so we call it "Amiette Capitalism." AP-9 is one of the most obvious examples of this "friend capitalism", the tip of the iceberg of institutionalized corruption, legalized theft and supported by the People's Party. There are many more examples, such as privatizations in the electricity sector or telecommunications sector; but AP-9 is one that seriously affects this country, the Greeks and the Greeks. In all cases, different governments have given gifts to friendly companies, at a price also as a friend, with huge monopolistic businesses, with infrastructures that have been paid with public money, which have been treated with public money, with money from all over the city, to deliver for many years to friendly companies. The privatization of AP-9 and its subsequent and progressive consolidation through decrees passed by governments of the People's Party, but also of the Socialist Party, puts its roots in corruption as a form of government. You have no other explanation than the complicity of successive governments with the interests of the private company, even at the cost of harming most. The report of excessive burdens and charges in prices is endless; the latter, those ups to the year 2018 of 3.1%, or that hypothetical abolition of the payout from Roundla to Vigo that is supported by the rest of the users on the highway. By the way, these privatizations often argue on the right side more neoliberally than privatization improves management, know-how, etc. For the general director of Audasa was for many years the same as when he was public, Andrés Muntaner, close friend of Mariano Rajoy — from the Casino de Pontevedra I think they call them—. So why do good managers or change managers, if these, like those in ethical oligopolie, are dropped benefits from the sky, more exactly stolen from Welsh and Welsh? AP-9 has been a great deal for many less for the Greeks. His story is the story of a great swindler who took part in governments with characters like Aznar and Alvarez Cascos. And they played that usual privatization for you, for the People's Party. First, he cleaned himself up with everyone's money. And then it was sold at the balance price, at the price of a friend. Round business, and with extension until 2048 included. Yes, it was the balance price because Sacyr — this friendly company — in a few years sold the highway without doing any work and took out multimillionaire surpluses; so it was seen as a friend price. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And by that time Feisó was counsellor of COTOP, of Infrastructure, and he didn't say nothing. You can check the hemerotheque and there's no criticism of Mr. Feijóo at that shameful privatization. The current situation is therefore largely the responsibility of the People's Party. Most of the responsibility for the current situation lies with the People's Party. And, on the other hand, Mr Feijóo hid and threw balloons out, blamed even the Socialist Party, which had part of the responsibilities, but most — as I say — were the responsibilities of the People's Party. Decree 104/2013, the extension of 2000, the privatization of 2004, the convention that involves the Pontevedra-Vigo discount that we pay with the increase of tariffs... has all the authority of the People's Party. And we are debating this bill again because of the responsibility of the People's Party. And I also want to say that, now that the government has changed, Mr. Feijóo's speech is likely to change, because he will prove again that he is not the president of Galicia, not the president of the Greeks and the Greeks, he is a man of the People's Party who only works for the People's Party. And he may change his speech, because we hear no great criticism of Mr. Feijóo when the People's Government has blocked this law; neither did he say mu. When he had to defend the dignity of this House and the dignity of the Greeks and the Greeks, Mr. Feijóo said nothing. We will now see if there is a change of attitude, but — as I said earlier — we do not even know whether the People's Party will vote for the transfer of AP-9 to Congress when it comes through. They're not even able to tell us that! Audasa — as I have said many times — is the top of abundance, earns 1 out of every 2 euros of those who charge as taxes, and also earns 1 out of every 3 euros after taxes. It's from highways with more claims from the state and less personal per kilometer; that's right, than the most dividends divide between their shareholders. In fact, it is a money-taking machine from Galicia to refinance the ENA Itinere group, as recognized in the agreement itself refinancing the debt of the ENA Itinere Group of 16 January 2016, where it is expressly agreed that Audasa should devote the maximum possible benefit to the payment of dividends to the owner company —ENA Itinere — as expressly stated in the public brochure of the last issue of debt of Audasa. The excessive fees paid by the Greeks and the Greeks, which determine high benefits for Audasa, then emigrant to the owner group, ENA Itinere, as an express and agreed condition for the renegotiation of their high debt. Debt, of course, generated in other latitudes and not in Galicia. It is the benefits of Audasa, the corresponding incomes of the owner, which compensate for the losses of other concessionaires of the State owned by this business group. Once again, Galicia is extraverting capital outside the country at the expense of citizenship. In the meantime, the People's Party, the Government of Feijóo, has lowered the obedient ears with power, subjected to loss of all dignity. They didn't even have the dignity of raising their voice against this defiant attitude of the People's Party in Madrid, their Government. They made a parapet of theirs in Madrid, and made a perfect imposure. They swallowed and shut up when they knew that Galicia was being taunted and blocked the transfer of AP-9 with cheating and false arguments. They were submitted before Genoa and meek before the Moncloa. And now we'll see the Socialist Party as well, we trust you to defend the same line you came up for until now. In our amendments that we propose to the text, in the same sense that also announced the Nationalist Block Galego, we have regained an idea; the idea of contemplating the possibility of reverting this infrastructure to the public, to direct management, to end this policy. With the economic data they say, it is inevitable that this directly managed infrastructure would be much more profitable for citizenship, would be much more profitable for Galicia, would be much more beneficial to that solution. But we don't even ask for that solution now. We have asked in this House on repeated occasions for a study by the Council of Galicia to assess the profitability of making that decision of reversal to the public, and they have not even done so. How can a Greek government have no data on how much it can cost to reverse to the public, and we have to hear him tell Mr. Martín Fernández Prado or Mr. Tellado that it costs 4,300 million, when is it just the result of multiplying everything that is billed in the year for the years that are left of the concession? Of course, what's going on is that you can't really argue with the argumentaries repeaters anymore. You can't really argue with those who don't take institutions seriously. That's why we think we have to contemplate that possibility. In this agreement there must be the possibility that, if you decide here in Galicia the reversal to the public, you can do it, and that there is a fair payment of the costs of reversal to the public that no longer harms the Greek society, which has been sustained for a long time that on a main axis, from north to south, in this country the fees are the most expensive of the state. For that reason, we believe that the inclusion of these amendments should be supported in order to contemplate the possibility of ending the injustice, the theft, the policy of the corrupt People's Party. And so it goes, and so it goes to this country, with corrupt governments that support — as they have supported this morning — the plug and impunity for their friends: in the House of Ourense, in the People's Valley and in all the institutions that you govern. They work like this because it's in your DNA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u40	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. For making a little... for appointing me earlier, Mr. Sánchez. I shall leave to Mr President two judgments — I do not have the third — a free designation of the head of infrastructure of the Council of the Crown, appointment of the Government of En Marea dated 31 May 2016. Another, the appointment of a head of service, of free designation, in the Town Hall of Coruña, dated 5 August 2016... I didn't bring the chief planner here, too... and more. [[Protests.]] [[Protests.]] [[Murmurs.]] Not only there, we can also get out of the Town Hall of Lugo and other municipalities, also from the BNG, if we want, of free designation. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But who ruled no 2016? Those of the pisitos, governed those of the contracts to the finger, the 7,500 contracts to the finger that led to Julius Ferreiro, 7,500 contracts to the finger! [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Say it soon. [[Murmurs.]] When we ask, Mr. Villares and Mr. Sánchez, to resign for corruption, do we speak of Julius Ferreiro? [[Murmurs.]] Do En Marea's struggles reach such an end that they call for the resignation of the mayor of the Marea? [[Murmurs.]] It could be! [[Applause]] Let's go! [[Applause]] In Zaragoza they're already with that. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u42	Let's go to AP-9.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u43	Let's get to the point, Mr. President. It was a direct allusion, since I have time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u44	That's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u45	As already noted, we are debating and voting today for the third time on the transfer of AP-9. But, look, Mr. Bará and Mr. Sánchez, I think they misqualified her. And thanks to the PP we can vote on it three times. Thanks to this majority and to the vote of the PP, you can vote because when I ruled the left, when I ruled the Bipartite, we asked for it and it couldn't be because they voted against it. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] When I ruled the left, there was a majority left of this camera, it was voted against. Of course, some, Mr. Bará, what I was doing, when you talk about degrees of treason, some of the BNG is the maximum degree of treason, because with the shirt of the Greek selection I put a goal in my own front door. I mean, he was shooting at Galicia from the very Parliament of Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's why when I was talking about T-shirts, I was talking about that general interest, and that's what you missed. What was the general interest when they voted against the people of the BNG of that transfer, when they were ruling here, because they didn't want to disturb the Government of Madrid? Dude, things change! Look, we're gonna keep holding on to the same position we've been holding on to this from the beginning, bad that weighs them down; others can't say the same thing. But we've seen a double stance: on the one hand, maximum demand in the quality of service, and we're going to continue to do it, govern who governs it, and complain when it doesn't work; and on the other hand, asking for the transfer of this title. But we're going to do it — I say — with the same demands, intensity, characteristics and arguments, and if they're not met, with the same complaints, Mr. Sánchez, because there were the complaints, not tersiverse. And we're going to continue to rule who governs, asking Rajoy and asking Sanchez. Not only with this but with other infrastructures too, like AVE, because we're really worried. Today AVE comes again because PP brings it in. Dear lords on the left!, since ruling the Socialist Party with the votes of the Tide and the Left, how the levels of exigencies of Galicia and the left of Galicia have changed! But we're going to bring the same ones we voted for, just like we said for AP-9. [[Murmurs.]] How are we not going to be worried about what we hear from the leaders of the Socialist Party in Galicia? The last, the new government delegate, the friend Javier Losada, sir and friend. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He says, "He didn't do anything for this government to stop the AVE." I'd just miss it! Man, if they do something against it, it would be scandalous if some of the things that are going on were stopped. But it's not enough not to interfere, gentlemen of the PSOE; you have to lay your shoulder, you have to work and demand the concessionaires. Because, of course, by the end of 2019, you have to double and triple the data and you have to hire, and that's probably more expensive than letting it pass. You have to be on top of your commitments. And, fortunately, we hope they're on top of that, but the statements are truly worrying. I was saying, in addition, that we're going to continue demanding the same thing that we had not only with the transfer. We've also approved here five or six months ago to remove those advantages from the IBI theme, we're going to continue to do so. We'll keep demanding the things of Roundabout and Chapel; of course we'll keep demanding them. And we will protest just as we protest if the highway works wrong, as we did and made the advisor and this government countless times. And we're going to do it because we understand that it's possible. But, as I said, these doubts that cause us concern. And we also ask — I think it is not too much to ask — to keep that commission established between the Union and the Ministry. And unfortunately we have many examples of how the work of the Council and the Government has worked very well with this commission. We saved four hundred million dollars in fee bonuses, we managed to get the future works, which I hope will keep them, not pay for the fees, as you did in 2011... They don't like to hear it, but the 2011 decree to rise 1% cumulative with an interest made of 8% — nice business!— made it a socialist government with a company that chaired — Itinere, the matrix — a former Secretary of State of the Socialist Party. [[Murmurs.]] Remember that too, Mr. Sanchez, remember that too. [[Mr. Sánchez García: Hello!]] We will continue to demand for Chapel and round it up the things we believe fair, and among them also the subject of the beach. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, we're not going to cheat on citizenship. We haven't done it until now and we're not going to follow now as long as the Socialist Party governs in Madrid. And we can't cheat by mixing the transfer of competency with the elimination of fees, because we know that elimination of fees has some huge costs that you want to pay to a private company. Because it's taking the money from the Welsh or Spanish and giving it to Itinere or the Audasa through it... and what he did is... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Now we have the possibility, and that's why it comes for the third time; not because we have a change of government, but, indeed, that ruling from the Constitutional Court, Mr Sánchez, offers more possibilities for the Government to have less chance of opposing itself in technical reports which makes the ministry itself responsible for that processing. We celebrate that sentence. We celebrate it because we believe it offers those greatest possibilities of achieving what we've been asking for years. And we've been asking for it, not how the BNG believes that began the world in 2016, when it introduced the bill. Of course, it's just that BNG doesn't want to remember when he ruled. As of 2010, the second government has arrived, he has already put it in his requests to the Transfer Commission, and he has continued to ask for it every time he had occasion in 2012, in 2014 and so on. It was a demand when the People's Party ruled, because when the Bipartite ruled, it wasn't on the agenda, because, of course, it was something else. But, look, we — as you also explained — presented a number of amendments — as the Socialist Party explained — because we understand that approval is easier and more possible with this text. But we also want to make a call. We understand that it is really important to achieve the unanimity of this chamber. And, in fact, we believe that this consensus reached with the second text of the law is the greatest possibility of approval and processing in Congress. And they worry about us, of course, because BNG and En Marea in the commission abstained. So, of course, then we'll talk about who defends these laws and votes, because of course... No, of course, people who don't vote for the law want to go up there, so it's a strange thing! [[Murmurs.]] But then we'll talk about the issue of representatives. In any case, we believe that reaching Congress with the unanimous support of this parliament is something positive. We encourage them to change their vote, leave that abstention and vote in favour of this consensus text because we truly believe that this unanimous request is best for Galicia. We were talking about the representative, because here again it seems that the only thing that concerns BNG is thinking more about partisan terms than in terms of country; the important thing is to get out of the picture. Of course, we all remember that the citizens didn't put any representatives of the BNG in Congress in Madrid. Maybe that's why they're so eager to go. But what they ask is not possible. It's not possible, first, because it's against the Constitution. I know that the theme of the Constitution doesn't seem to you. Article 87.2 states that a maximum of three representatives may be appointed. So it's not about changing the House's Rules of Procedure to put four; the Constitution would have to be changed. So far I was asking him to be independent of Galicia from the rest of Spain, but now if they also want to include this article, to appoint a fourth representative, it is not enough to change the Rules of Procedure, but we would have to change the Constitution. The other solution they propose is to change the regulation. They say that the proposed group can go whether or not. Home!, I think at least one group should go and vote for it, because it defends it to a group that abstains from the truth is that it makes little sense. In any case, the laws, I don't know much about laws, forgive me the lawyers, but I think that really the laws aren't the group that proposes them, nor are they the laws of the groups that approve them. Moreover, I dare say that the laws are neither of the House; the laws have been since the approval of all citizens of Galicia. And in the representation of Galician citizens, frankly, they don't consider the BNG to be their best representative; not the best, not the most representative. It is in the House's groups that is the least representative. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I therefore sincerely believe that the People's Party with its votes and the representativeness given to it by the Greeks could appoint the three representatives, more than one... well, two. [[Murmurs.]] I could name more than one. It's quite generous to tell you that second, instead of naming it as the People's Party, they decide it among the opposition groups. You agree to name it. [[Murmurs.]] To toughen the PP easily agree; agree to name those two people. The problem is not of the PP, which generously yields one of those who could have as representatives, but rather of the opposition, which, when they have to build something positive, just as we saw when ruling the Bipartite, construct in a positive way not; the only thing they know is agreeing to pull against the People's Party. In that we agree. As we have already said in the committee, we will vote in favour and hope that it will be dealt with and approved at the Congress of Deputies on this occasion. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u46	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Prado. Round of parliamentary groups to define themselves on individual votes and amendments. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u47	Mr. Fernández Prado, you've come here again to make a real wallpaper; a true paperboard besides the plague of lies or half-truths or distortions of reality. Because you create a world to its own extent, a world even where categories of parliamentary representatives are allowed to be established, as if there were someone here who commands more, who weighs more or is worth more than others depending on representation. [[Murmurs.]] We are all representatives of the people and therefore deserve that respect. [[Applause]] You're a slave holding on to a vote of this parliament in 2006, and then they do an amnesia exercise until 2016; nothing happened. You forget that in that period of time the BNG took the State Parliament on more than ten occasions in the form of a non-legislative motion on the transfer of AP-9, Congress and Senate; some of them were voted unanimously and were vetoed by the rotating governments. But it was the BNG who brought those debates to the State Parliament, who took that AP-9 flag to the State Parliament. Therefore, respect and truth, respect and truth. And it was the BNG who brought the debate of the AP-9 Transfer Act to this parliament in 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018. It was the BNG who brought this debate here. On one occasion we proposed a joint proposal from all groups. I could have done it to others, I could have done it to you, but it was the BNG who did it. So, with regard to the truth and the role each group has in this issue. Finally, it became clear to us all this time that the People's Party, not only, but the People's Party, in this case in the case of laws, has banned its processing in the Congress of Deputies. It was the People's Party who vetoed it, that was Mrs. Ana Pastor who vetoed it, that was Mr. Rajoy's State Government of the People's Party who vetoed the processing of these laws passed by the German Parliament. [[Applause]] It's your responsibility. That's why we tell them they're traitors to Galicia. That's the truth, that's the reality, and as much as they want to lie, as much as they want to distort, they won't change it; they assume that reality. You were the ones who watched the processing of these laws, and that's why we have to come back for the third time to deal with this issue here. And don't worry, we're going to vote in favour of any law initiative that allows the transfer of AP-9. What we want to make clear here in this debate is that we prefer a maximum option, which does not close the option of bailout, nationalization, ransom for the public and the elimination of fees, because it's fair and because we have a right, just as they have other territories in which concessions end in the coming years. That is why we brought here the version of maximums — by the way, which has already been adopted in this Parliament — and because I also say so to the representative of the PSOE — the Constitutional Court ruling did not refer to this issue. The ruling of the Constitutional Court is that a budgetary veto cannot be made in the course of article 134.6 of the Constitution, because the veto cannot be exercised in relation to future budgets that have not yet been approved. That's what the Constitutional Court ruling says. And so it goes for version A and version B of the law that we present here. Specific budgetary items of the current budget should be needed which would be affected by the adoption of the law. This must be done at the time of admission of the procedure, and there is no budgetary share of the budget in force which is accepted by the admission of the procedure of that law. So it's not worth that argument. And it's also conclusive, because you, of course, now made it all to change your position, supposedly, to the Constitutional Court judgment, which was April 2008. But there is a report from the lawyer of the Legal Counsel of the Congress, which is March 2017, which is clear and powerful in this regard: this type of veto must be exceptional, not the norm, because otherwise they prevent the legislative function. Article 134.6 of the Constitution does not grant an unlimited right of veto, which would secure the legislative capacity of Congress. And he's also referring to the budgetary issue. There were already legal reasons in 2017 to prevent the veto. And despite that, since the Government and the Bureau of Parliament have prevented and vetoed the processing of the law. And that's why we have to be here again talking about this matter. It is the responsibility of the People's Party. And now I make a direct appeal to the Socialist Group, so that they commit themselves here, firstly, to admit, to voting in favour of admission to the procedure, which we suppose is because they have already done so, and secondly, what is most decisive, to make possible from the Government and from their votes in the Congress of Deputies the transfer to Galicia of AP-9. Because I've already told you that I have here statements from Minister of Development Magdalena Álvarez and Minister of Development José Blanco — I have them from Mrs. Pastor — that they said it was illegal and unviable, that they don't give us much hope. And finally, with regard to representation, we, first of all, ask only one thing: that the decision to study different ways, which are, there are, legal, regulatory so that we can allow a more plural representation and fairer representation of this parliament. And we make concrete proposals. So it's just about speeding up the decision and analyzing the different ways in which BNG presented it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u49	So our support for any decision and proposal that would allow the transfer of AP-9, but we also wanted to make it clear in this debate, and therefore the abstention in the committee, that our option was still being and remains the option of transfer ceilings, but also of nationalization, of relief from concession, of elimination of fees, as is going to be done about in the highways that are from the AP-9 generation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u50	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u51	Thank you again, Mr President. Mr. Fernández Prado, the 1% rise was made in 2012. In 2012 Mr. Rajoy ruled, and the one who signed up was Mrs. Pastor. Anyway, I haven't heard anything about the extension of the concession and its author either. [[Applause]] I will remind you: enlargement for twenty-five years, to the maximum permitted; author: Mr. Aznar; and accomplice: Mr. Feijóo, being branch advisor in Galicia. By the way, I also remind you that the People's Party has already vetoed in Madrid at the Joint Transfer Commission in 2005, the transfer of AP-9, including in the forty-nine transfers approved by this same parliament. Therefore, Mr. Fernández Prado, sometimes there must be less noise and try to understand. The Socialist Group believes that it is fair that the AP-9 is managed from Galicia, because it is a decisive infrastructure for our territorial articulation, because it is on that stage an immense opportunity for the Galician society, because it must undergo a permanent opportunity of growth for Galicia, because it must exercise that leadership and that role of generating added value to put it to the service of the Greeks and the Greeks and not to the service of other interests at the expense of the Greeks and the Greeks, because with the current model it is becoming into an unassumable burden for families and businesses, because with the current model, the Greeks always lose and the concession will always win, because it will be possible to reverse that situation if we get the transfer and manage the competitions. And that's the abecence, Mr Bará, of the Socialist Group's willfulness and why we're going to fight permanently. We bet on the transfer of AP-9 and the management of the competitions because it's possible. It is legally possible, because they allow the Statute of autonomy, the Spanish Constitution, the European Union, and it is technically and economically possible and politically possible. In this scenario, not free of difficulties, starting with the twenty-five-year extension of the concession granted by Mr Aznar, the Socialist Group prefers that there be a unity scenario, where all political forces can match. In this sense, the joint presentation and subsequent unanimous approval of this bill on 9 May 2017, provided from the legal point of view and without resquisition from the technical and economic point of view, stabilized and marked from our opinion the way forward in the transfer of AP-9. It is a difficult task that we should not complicate with elements that are inherent in negotiation in the Joint Transfer Commission. For Galicia to have the title and competences of AP-9 it is essential to have the unanimity of the Greek Parliament, and that unanimity should turn around the text adopted on 9 May 2017, and it is only modifiable from our point of view with the consensus of all the camera groups. Breaking the action unit or breaking the 2017 text unit will only weaken us in our goal. That is why we have been able to understand this initiative and also the initiative presented by En Marea at the Congress of Deputies. But we are most surprised at the return of the BNG, absent from this in 2016, through the presentation of two private votes in that direction. In any case, from the Socialist Group, and also understanding this position in their freedom of action, we have the conviction that the transfer will take place, that this unanimous demand for this parliament will give rise to a positive solution at some point. Also because there is a clear conviction of citizenship about the usefulness of this transfer. In short, we believe that it will happen because there is a clear majority of politics in Galicia but also in the whole of Spain. And these social and political majority always end up impotent. In line with what we think and say, we are not going to support the BNG's private votes, nor are we going to support En Marea's amendments, and we are going to vote in favour of the provisions of the current regulation as regards the number of members. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u52	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Fernández. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u53	First of all, Mr. Fernández Prado, you also mentioned me on repeated occasions. Look, I'm not responsible for Mr. Tellado and Mrs. Paula Prado not reading the sentence, and referring to a ruling of a People's Party appointment that was cancelled with eleven persons. In that case, what I'm telling you is that the cancellations of free designations happen in many municipalities, which may be. In the Council of the Coruña it was because it did not consider the chosen procedure of free designation justified, but never by deviation of power, never by entrusion and never by the participation of the interested person, who had to abstain and did not do so, as did Mrs. Miragros Otero, and never to benefit the sister of the spokesperson of the People's Party or of the party of En Marea. [[Applause]] So don't compare the concierge who was in the famous Pikachu government. Mrs. Prado, I'm talking about the Coruña, if you want we can also talk about the "gift gifts" and about the subsequent changes in the mayor of the Town Hall of Compostela, which they set such an example for democracy. Some "gift gifts." Yes, sir, give some "gift gifts." [[Applause]] I was left...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u54	AP-9. Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u55	...recorded.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u56	Silence! AP-9, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u57	Don't worry, don't worry! Yes, Martino too. You also saw here saying that Martiño let two people die in the street of Compostela. It takes a little decency to come here to say that, they're not ashamed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u58	AP-9.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u59	You have no shame. And they're not ashamed... to see if they stop barking at once. [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u60	No, he doesn't steal anyone, he's sorry. Watch your vocabulary. He won't steal anyone. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u61	Well, I'll take it back.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u62	Fortunately in this parliament nobody's stealing yet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u63	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u64	And go to the point now. Go to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u65	...very nervous. And since they're not ashamed of the last time the spokesperson for the People's Party didn't talk about the substantial, he didn't talk about the privatization of AP-9 by the People's Party, the plunder of the century in Galicia. He didn't talk about how you delivered this infrastructure at your friend's price and condemned Welsh and Welsh to pay the most expensive fees up to 2048, when they've been in the rest of the state for a long time without having to pay fees for these concessions. You are not ashamed because they have practiced corruption once again with AP-9, to give it to Núñez's friend or Mariano Rajoy. With Núñez Feijo as counsellor, he didn't say mu. And you haven't talked about the blockade of the People's Government in Madrid, which has prevented the democratically voting on a unanimous proposal from the German Parliament. Shame! And you say that Mr. Feijóo has complained intensely. Don't laugh at us, Mr. Feijóo said nothing mu. The next week he was taking pictures of Mr. Iñigo de la Serna and smiling. There was no word of disapproval for Mr. Rajoy's anti-democratic attitude, not one. You once again sold yourself to the People's Party and to the interests of the People's Party. Don't come here to deny the obvious. They have no democratic shame. And what did they vote there when the AP-9 transfer was considered? They have always opposed each other, and they will again oppose each other, because above all there are the economic interests of the company, of that company that plunders Greek and Greek. And don't come here to lie, which is the speciality of the house, Mr. Fernández Prado. When he said about the elimination of the fees, who talks about the elimination of the fees, who talked about the elimination of the fees? How can you come here to answer and confuse people? Who? Who? [[Mr. Fernández Prado speaks words that are not perceived.]] Downgrade to the public is not the elimination of fees. And without data we can't talk about removing fees. You say there's more possibilities now. Yes, there's more chance of that now, you said. But there are more possibilities now because there has been a corrupt government and, in principle, there is a democratic government. That's because there's more possibilities. And not a caciquil government, which has blocked with lies and tangled up what should be a democratic process. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, sir, it's that serious. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] If you've also talked about the IBI of AP-9, driven by a mayor of Abegondo who's on trial for prevarication, right? It's also for urban management. It's just that there's to give and take in the People's Party. With regard to the spokesperson for the Socialist Party, Mr. Fernández, look, In Marea at Congress presented a bill, of course, yes, to work, to draw out the anti-democratic blockade of the People's Party; it is our responsibility. And I encourage the Socialist Party, the Socialist Group there, to do the same and support En Marea's efforts to achieve what could not be achieved by the blockade of the People's Party. It's our responsibility and we did it. And then the amendments. For us, Mr. Fernández, so fundamental is the transfer of AP-9 to Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u66	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u67	...how to end the Audasa management policy, and that's why we ask him to turn to the public. We can't give up studying reversion to the public, direct management and consenting to the police until 2048 by a company agreed by the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u68	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u69	...and at your own time by the Socialist Party. And that's why we're not going to give up. That's why we're making the amendment. And there is no argument because the amendment of both the BNG and En Marea perfectly fits in the legality and the Spanish Constitution that both defend the Socialist Party and the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u70	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u71	...as the Constitutional Court clearly said. And how can we not go back to the original text, which has also been unanimously approved in this parliament?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u73	That too, you voted...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u74	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u75	...and voted for the People's Party. They voted in favour...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u76	Thank you very much. Your time is up, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u77	...and then I didn't have a reversal for the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Fernández Prado has the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u79	Thank you very much again, Mr. President. Mr Bará, we're talking about voting coherence for now, and I understand that you, of course, when they ruled, voted against. And now tell me that in Madrid at that time they put forward proposals, but in this parliament they voted against. It's in the minutes, it's in the Diary of this parliament. So, of course, they put the whole theatrical impulse here: we will always vote in favour, stay calm and like this! We'll vote in favour of ruling the PP here, when you rule, we'll see! That's the impulse they put on. In any case — I insist — it is because this majority group supports the process of this law, because if we vote against it — as did the Bipartite when he ruled and this bipartisan parliament, when he was a bipartisan Parliament, most of us — because we would remain powerless or even send it to Madrid and move at least the request and the feeling of the Greeks. And, look, the representation of the Greeks is proportional, of course it is proportional!, and all representatives are exactly the same. What is not a problem for the People's Party is that their representation, that of the Galician Nationalist Block, is not enough to be able to impose on PSOE and En Marea. I mean, there are two squares left, there are three groups, agree! We — I insist — quite generously did leaving one of the squares we could occupy. What would happen? Maybe it's better if we name or vote for two, and then they really have to agree for one. That representation, that vote, is an item that will decide that the Bureau, I don't know who is responsible for deciding on that approval. But in any case, I think it is necessary to put it on the table that the People's Party, in order to try to have the greatest possible representation and transfer the unanimity and support of this chamber, leaves one of its proper places so that another group of the opposition — what you decide — may accompany or may be in Madrid defending that proposal, that law. In any case, Mr. Fernández and also Mr. Sánchez, when the extension of the deadline of this highway is approved, it is to pay for the works The Courña-Ferrol and Vigo-Tui, which did not exist. I mean, it's like making two new highways in Galicia and really vertebrate the whole Atlantic. That didn't exist. What a difference! There was indeed an extension to compensate for works that did not exist. By the way, reported on the valuation of the works by the General Intervention of the State. But in any case, what a difference when Mr Pérez Touriño was a secretary of state — and I do not say that he is a minister, so that I am not angry — and the granting of the motorway was extended ten years without any compensation in return! Carai! And this could remember, too, Mr. Fernández. What a difference! With Touriño, no compensation. It is true that with Aznar paying for the works The Courña-Ferrol, which did not exist, and Vigo-Tui, which did not exist either; it is like making other new highways. In any case, I, Mr. Fernández, allow me to question those promises of a minister every three days to arrive on concessions that will not pay people in 2021, which we will see if he is a minister and who is a minister. I also promise gunpowder to the neighbors, and throwing away other people's powder is easy. We'll see who the minister is and see what happens in 2021. Suddenly, to me, a minister who is forty-eight hours without studying anything, has already said and speaks of other periods of government because let me at least put it in doubt. In any case, Mr. En Marea, of course, you defend that appointing someone for free designation when there was this contest is better. We'll see too -- time will put everyone in place -- what happens with some adjudication in the Continuity-Administrative, like the Prison Project, where some of the participants or members of the Prison Project have more than relationships and are charges...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u80	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u81	...or the government's own concierge. We'll see what the Contentious says. But it's very similar to the things we're hearing in Zaragoza or elsewhere. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u82	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u83	In any case, that public review will already explain to us how and who pays it and how it pays. We want to end up insisting that I thank you to hear BNG's opinion saying you're going to vote in favour. I insist that unanimity is positive, we believe that we can be more effective in the quality of service if it is transmitted. We can't support BNG's private votes or the maintenance of En Marea's amendments because we understand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u84	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u85	...that this kind of thing is easier to approve and process at the Congress of Deputies. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Prado. Let's move on to the next point. Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, amending Law 9/2011, of 9 November, of the public media of audiovisual communication of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u87	Mr. Álvarez Martínez speaks for the presentation of the bill.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. Our parliamentary group today presents a proposal for consideration, and I would like to stress this: a consideration; that is, it is not an approval already of a legislative text, but simply that we give ourselves the opportunity in this parliament to discuss the legal text appropriate to comply with. And I take a few words that Mr Prado has just said to me that I agree with, when he says that the laws are from all citizens, that is, they are not from the parliaments that approve them, they are from the citizenship once Parliament approves that legislative text. Actually, our proposal today is for the amendment of two laws: one, the famous and already known Law 9/2011, of Galicia's audiovisual media, but also a modification of Law 6/1999, of Galicia's audiovisual media. This is — we understand from our group — a constructive proposal, a proposal as such open to dialogue with the House's groups in the parliamentary process and which I shall try to sum up in the time available. First of all, and as it is already known, we have a problem with the fulfilment of the deadlines which the law itself passed by this parliament has at its time, regarding the renewal of the figure of the Director-General of the Galician Radio and Television Corporation. I am sending that, as we know, it is five years long. The current one was appointed in May 2009 and therefore seems necessary, with more than considerable delay, hardly acceptable, to the renewal of the current Director General of the Galician Radio and Television Corporation. Renewal which does not necessarily mean change but also does not mean maintenance, simply proceed to what is established by law. And in addition, this seems to be a particularly successful moment since, as we all know, during this year — and the second statement by the Director General of the Corporation in the Galician Radio and Television Commission — is likely to end the entire scanning process. So if we can understand to a certain extent that you may not proceed to make a renewal of the general direction within a process of high complexity from the procedural and technological point of view as is digitization, once that digitization has been completed, that procedure seems appropriate and seems the most appropriate time to proceed to that renewal. That is why, at the first point, we propose that this amendment be drafted so that the extension for renewal may not exceed the six-month period without activating the procedure laid down in Article 23.2 of the legislative text itself. We also propose a modification of the fourth transitional provision for renewal, activating the procedure within an unwarranted period — as I said earlier — of thirty days from the adoption of the law; not that we approve consideration in this Parliament today — if we can approve it, but since the amendment of the law has been approved. And open a 15-day deadline for parliamentary groups to make proposals that they consider relevant to the appointment of the person who performs the general management of the Corporation. As you can see, this is a reasonable time limit, considering how long it will take to process this legal change, but also with a very limited time delimitation — worth redundancy — since we cannot or should not allow any further delay in this process. In point 4 we propose the addition of a sixth bis transitional provision on the programme contract. It is clear that talking about a programme contract is a language of its own, it almost seems to be something that we often handle the Members and Members of the Commission of the Galician Radio and Television Corporation, but it is a key element, it is an essential element for the operation of the Corporation. And therefore, in view of the fact that the framework mandate — which this is a bit tedious — has been published on 16 December 2015 and the programme contract has not yet been published, it seems necessary that, as set out in Article 36 of the framework mandate itself, when it is said that the legally planned instrument to determine the specific objectives to be developed by the Galician Radio and Television Corporation and its financing is the programme contract provided for by the Public Media Act itself. This programme contract, which has a duration of three years and which should also be -- "should be" I say because it has never been renewed -- signed by the Board of Trustees before June 30 of the last year of the validity of that programme contract. We also propose something as absolutely relevant as a provision concerning the professional status of employees of the Galician Radio and Television Corporation. The absence of a professional status was possibly the cause of the highest level of disunity among all parliamentary groups within the Commission of the Galician Radio and Television Corporation. And why? Because this professional status guarantees, among other things, the quality, professionalism and independence of the information content offered by the various channels of radio, television and the Internet, and must respond to the general principles that inspire the law. We know those who participate in that commission — which I have repeatedly referred to — that there is an absolute clash, there is an absolutely different perception of the approach given to the news by the Galician Radio and Television Corporation. But it's not my goal in this first intervention to make a beautiful case of this meeting, but simply to convince this chamber of the necessity that we have that professional status to be published to guarantee never put in doubt professionalism and the ability to give information objectively and professionally that the employees of the corporation have. And, therefore, we insist, that, with this amendment that we propose, within three months of the approval of professional status and, three months later, if we create the Information Council of this corporation. We also want all aspects of audiovisual authority to be modified. And when I talk about them being modified, I'm talking about their being believed and launched in an effective way. That audiovisual authority has to be the guarantor that the public service that the corporation must provide to the Galician society is carried out with the highest standards of quality. Maximum standards that always tell us in the commission that they are already guaranteed, but frankly, it seems reasonable that it is an independent authority to say that they are providing services with proper standards, not that it is the CEO of the corporation itself who is in charge of trying to convince the commission that this is already being carried out. And to finish our proposal, we introduced an absolutely relevant aspect. And I say it's relevant because we're talking about a key sector for Galician culture, a strategic sector like the audiovisual production sector in this autonomous community. Therefore, it seems necessary to introduce an amendment to Law 6 of the year 1999, because it speaks of one of its articles, in Article 5(3), that "public authorities guarantee and promote cultural pluralism in the audiovisual sector". It also says, "powering the sector through support for professional and industrial educational initiatives". Well, do we talk about something that can't be done, something that must be invented? No, no, no, no. We have the example of the Basque Public Television, the ETB, which has published its program contract, which is what we also ask for on our initiative, which is what we should have published for years and we do not have. And in the ETB's programme contract, with regard to certain commitments, it speaks in commitment 9 to promote the Basque audiovisual industry and to be a tractor of cultural and creative industries. And it has a number of associated commitments. They will allow me — I think I still have some time — to exemplify with a couple of standards that have written this programme contract. One of the commitments is the commitment to recruit programmes to the Basque audiovisual sector to ensure a transfer of economic resources and generation of economic activity in the creative and cultural industries linked to television. Another is the commitment to hiring the Basque audiovisual sector to ensure a transfer of economic resources and generation of economic activity in the creative and cultural industries linked to doubling. And I'm saying these two because the doubling to the Greek has also been the subject of extensive debate within the Galician Radio and Television Commission. And I won't read any more. Collaboration with the Basque audiovisual sector, through a cluster called Eiken, and how many initiatives are being developed for industrial consolidation of the sector. We all know — everyone we are here, regardless of whether or not we are involved in the committee — that the cultural sector is a precarious sector to the extremes frankly difficult to understand in a reasonably advanced society as is Greek society. A society that doesn't bet on its cultural industry is a society aimed at inculturation; this is an obvious thing that almost has to say. But in the case of the Basque Television programme contract I am setting as an example, for this year 2018 the commitment you have is to fund 180 projects of programs received from Basque producers, 180! You have the support of funding Basque cinema with 6%, which is what we are asking for in our bill, in amending the law that we propose today to this Parliament. Or, for example, the hours produced by ETB's investment directly to Basque cinema within 6% of 1,100 hours a year. Why can the Basques, why can the Basque Autonomous Community, why can other autonomous communities, have a published programme contract, have a professional status, have a public television and a public radio, therefore fully financed — or, without being absolutely, yes very majority, as we know by the annual accounts we still reviewed last month — have these autonomous communities absolutely determined and legal support, because it is within the state legal framework, to the audiovisual sector of its own autonomous community, and in Galicia we cannot do the same? We believe, frankly, within the constructive character that told them at the beginning of my intervention that we have our proposal, that this autonomous community can do the same thing as others do. If it's legal, if it's part of its degree of autonomy, which has no other than ours, this autonomous community can do it too. So what we are asking for is support for taking these legal changes into consideration. The majority — of course — of this proposal has already been discussed in this Parliament. I insist, I think there is a different scenario than that which led to the vote against the People's Party at the time, although it is also true that in the past, with a non-law proposal of identical content, it had a different position. But things work in politics that way. We propose — I insist — this consideration because we believe that we can open a debate that stabilizes the Galician Radio and Television Corporation in all its areas to which they refer in my exhibition, and that, in addition to ensuring by law sufficient budgetary support for the development of the Galician audiovisual sector, which, as I said before, is a highly precarious and highly needed sector of legitimate public intervention, because this Parliament is to ensure that the Government carries out effective and successful public policies, and frankly we consider this to be one of them. And nothing else for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez. For the rest of the parliamentary groups we started by Mrs Olalla Rodil Fernández, by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u90	Good morning to all and to all. So, as an initial point, I think we all saw the house convinced. We'll see what the result is. Before we start, first of all, from the BNG, we want to show our support to the workers and workers of CRTVG, who have started mobilizations in defense of the public media of this country weeks ago. Our greatest recognition for the courage shown every Tuesday, every Thursday, and especially every black Friday. A powerful mobilization; so powerful that the management forbids that color on the plate. [[Applause]] And for the first time in the history of the audiovisual media in our country, it motivated the resignation of two journalists, a presenter and a telexornal presenter. An extremely difficult decision for any worker or worker, which is made when the environment is absolutely breathable. The workers and the workers at CRTVG don't only defend their work rights. The workers and the workers at CRTVG don't only defend their jobs. They're defending a public service, a fundamental right of the Greeks and the Greeks, and a Galician radio and television that are a key element in the conception of this country and an indispensable tool for the spread of our own language and culture. And I say courage because some of the professionals who have been reporting repeated non-compliance for seven years of the Law on Public Audiovisual Media, and who must remember that they were on strike when this Law was debated and passed 9/2011 in this House, these workers and these workers know what the consequences of reporting political control and information manipulation are because they suffer in their own flesh. They know the consequences of not being silent, not passing, not bending and defending true, plural and impartial information. Defending the public service mission, ultimately, of Galician Public Radio and Television Corporation. They are aware that denouncing such manipulation and information control is paid, at best, by making corridors. Things at CRTVG go wrong and they've been bad for a long time, too long. But it is also fair to say that, at least since the BNG, we are not surprised by the least of what is happening, which we can see. And we are pleased — we said in the previous debate with a bill very similar to this — that the Socialist Party realizes that passing the Law 9/2011 was a wash of the People's Party's face, a wash of face. In the same way that he was — and I want to be honest and absolutely frank — the Cambalachian who signed the Board of Directors in August 2015 — when the PP had been violating the Law on Public Audiovisual Media for four years, the Board of Directors of the CRTVG — recalled here in the morning — the Council of Auditors and the People's Valator, because it was one by three. [[Applause]] And this law has been breached since the first six months of its entry into force, since the first six months of its entry into force! [[Applause]] The fourth transitional provision. The election of the Director or Director General and other members of the Management Board shall take place within a maximum of six months, of six months! You gave him new batteries at that time, in 2011, to command the distance with which the People's Party and Mr. Núñez Feijóo control and direct the public radio and television. We said it seven years ago and we said it again now. The People's Party never wanted, never!, to end political control of the public; it didn't want and don't want. That's why the law is obscenely violated. And you know why? Because it's going so well for them and how things are. Would CRTVG's government control end the People's Party and lose the possibility of placing your messages in thousands of homes every day? Was that power lost to the General Secretariat of the Media or to the secretariat — could we almost coin it — of propaganda? I had no intention of the People's Party that Parliament would elect the general leadership by 2/3. They laid their hands on the current general address, Mr. Sánchez Izquierdo, in 2009, and made it interim, until he tires, using the back door, the 2016 Budget Accompanying Act, and until today. It was not the intention of the People's Party to count on the House's plurality to pass the landmark mandate, and it was that in addition to the Media Act of 2011, it did not force it, as it did, and it passed it alone in 2015. He didn't need anyone. Nor did the People's Party intend to approve the programme contracts, which have not signed the first one in which we have spent these seven years since the entry into force of the law. I absolutely agree, it has a lot to do with the impulse and the engine that must be the public media and the corporation in the audiovisual production of our country, but it's also -- and it's the most important part -- to set that percentage of genres in programming, which would be to take away the current capacity of management and government in terms of the definition and design of the information grid. I also had no intention — and in view of the fact that we have seen the fact that it has been fulfilled — to create the professional status and the Council of Informatives. But here I also want to make a parenthesis, because that professional status and the Informative Board is ordered by the Board of Directors. And we'd like to ask a question: what's going on in there? What's going on in there since this board of directors was renewed in 2015, in which they represent both the People's Party and the Socialist Party? Nor does the People's Party intend to set up such audiovisual authority as a tool for professional and independent control, beyond external control. When did you see the fox take care of the chickens? When? I've been talking about public media. We also say it in 2011 and we repeat it again now: it's no use to break the inertias and vices that have been installed for decades, first in the Company and now in the current Corporation. They needed structural reforms, social-participation bodies, counterweight elements, external and independent, which really monitored that Galician Corporation and Public Radiotelevision operates under the general principles for which it was created, by the way, principles that transcend information services and are closely linked to the promotion and dissemination of the language and culture of Greek, and, above all, fulfilling the mission of public service and not of feijoonian exaltation every time we put the Telexornal, public service that got to waste October 15, 2017, when they had us all seeing the Land Rober while the country burned down on the four sides. Because the CRTVG supports more than 100 million euros each year, from which the whole of it is public, it is public and that we pay -- we won't get tired of saying it -- all the workers and the workers in this country. The CRTVG is all of them, not the Government of the Galician Union or the political organizations. We will support the consideration of this reform bill, aware that the compliance and development of the 2011 Law is a demand of the staff. But — we insist — it will not solve all evils or de-governmentalize the public. For that, what this country would need is another law. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u91	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. Mrs Vázquez Verao has the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u92	Well, it's sad to live at a time when we have to fight for obvious things, because, in fact, it would not be necessary to bring this bill amendment proposal in fact if it had met the legal obligation, as Xosé Manuel Pereiro has been Dean of the College of Journalists a few years ago. The Public Media Act must be put into action at once, all together and not just the most interesting parts. A regulation is like a gear that must work together, because a car with a motor but without a steering wheel is only meant to break down. And here we are. Go forward to the announcement of En Marea's favourable vote to take into account this proposed Law amending Law 9/2011, of the public media, an initiative that only demands to comply with that law that it approved in 2011 most of this House with the theoretical objective of, among others — this was the theoretical objective when the Act 2011 was approved — to strengthen the independence of the Galician Radio and Television Corporation in respect of executive power, nothing less. More than six years after the entry into force of this law, the main developments that would undermine the independence and quality of the public media are the ones that are failing to comply with. The only provision — and I put between quotes — of the law that was fulfilled, in part and later, was that appointment of the Board of Directors by Parliament of Galicia in 2015. That's right. He was appointed before he passed the terms of reference that same year, which he passed only the People's Party, when it should have been a parallel process. And at the moment, we cannot but say a PP and PSOE pact of these six of the seven seats of the Governing Council, excluding, by the way — and I quote, textually — "the cultural, ideological and political plurality that is represented in the House of Wales" and thus violating in part Article 13.2 of the law itself. Today they can check what was the pact with the PP both in the People's Valley and in the CRTVG Board of Directors. But finally, the maximum personification of the lack of development of the Public Media Act is the permanence in the office of Mr. Sánchez Izquierdo, Director General since 2009, who should have been elected by a large majority in this House. The PP shielded Sánchez Izquierdo in the Law of Tax and Administrative Measures accompanying the budgets in 2016 — if you have said here — an amendment of law by the back door that shows the lack of consensus on the public media that the People's Party has; they shielded by the back door to Sánchez Izquierdo, it's been almost a decade. We therefore agree with the objectives of this proposal to amend the law and that we can summarize them, as the proposal itself does, in increasing the participation of staff, editorial and quality independence, information independence and defence in respect of any external, governmental or private pressure. So this project, this proposal that is being taken into consideration, is focused on setting specific and relatively fast deadlines to implement once and for all the legal provisions that affect the independence of CRTVG. Let's say again: I shouldn't have to bring him in. Even so, we also consider that we could make more ambitious changes, they would carry out more fundamental transformations in order to ensure a democratic functioning of CRTVG and a quality programming; ultimately, to meet the theoretical objectives by which radio and public television are created in this country and that today they continue to fail. More announcements: we will vote in favour of this consideration. And why? We do this in a context where two circumstances arise: one is that digitization, that complex process of professional reclassification, but another is also a reprocessing of information manipulation, especially since that remodeling of the May 2017 direction. As never before, there is an unsustainable situation within CRTVG. The staff, their staff, to whom we have shown our utmost respect from here, denounces the government's control and manipulation, taking into account the failure of so many years of this legal obligation to create, among other matters, an information council that monitors by objectivity, thus failing to comply with Article 36, which regulates professional status, and of what we share its importance. We believe — we believe — that we are in a real process of dismantling CRTVG's public service function, and that is why we show our support for these "black Friday" campaigns, of the various mobilizations to denounce this rejection of information manipulation; by the way, information manipulation supported in that failure to set up the Information Council, while Mr Feijóo declared to the media that he did not know that the law obliged him to create that body. Mr. President didn't know it. It doesn't matter much whether the democratic rights collected in the laws, which include the need to have public means that are plural and independent, or whether it doesn't matter whether the CRTVG talks about dangerous friendships, travel by yacht or boat, I don't know, or corporate donations to the People's Party or the fires, or whether it sinks into the process of caciquism within the People's Valley. But it is not actually the first time that CRTVG's staff have denounced the interference of political power. Let's remember that six years ago, with a strike, they called for the implementation of this law, they called for the urgent creation of the Information Council, and they called for the appointment, by a large majority of the House, of the Director General. How did PP respond? Armoring the director general through the back door. Let's also remember -- because we haven't forgotten -- October Black, we don't forget the fires in this country, that they once again made the Greek people have to go out, in the face of a national emergency, fulfilling the role that the German Government should play. We didn't forget about October Black, but we didn't forget about the IT manipulation of CRTVG and how the special programming was not activated until around 11 p.m., obviously a key role that was to have provided service information both on Radio and on TVG. So, here we are, shipwrecked — as I said before —. We hope that taking this bill into consideration will improve this situation. She's definitely not gonna solve it at once. The context — of course, we also debate it on numerous occasions in the CRTVG Control Committee — is complex. It's complex because there's a global situation of tension in the media that is at the service of corporations and media pressure groups increasingly, they're giving technological transformations, and we know that this context is complex, but precisely in this context, it's when the Government of Greece should have more clearly wagered by quality public media. But, as I say, political control is tighter than information, it's getting bigger, and I point out it's increased with that remodeling of last year's leadership. That's why we find this proposal for legislative amendment urgent, because it is urgent that deadlines be set for the establishment of the Information Council, that there be time limits for a necessary consensus to appoint the Director or Director General, in order for the public to offer a plural and true information that guarantees the right of access to public media by collectives, political and trade union and social organizations, that eliminates censorship of drafting and that respects the free exercise and freedom of conscience of workers and workers. We also remember here that the situation is so unusual that two people, two professionals, Tati Moyano and Alfonso Hermida, leave their work as newsstanders because they disagree with the information line. From that point on, the situation has reached that far. The breach of the law is one of the causes that the situation had come to such evidence and to such dismantling. Why? Neither programme contracts nor professional status, nor regulation of the functions of the audiovisual authority, nor even the impulse to own production. We could also continue to report violations of the Law on Public Media, for example with regard to the promotion of language and audiovisual. That is why we also agree with that provision that includes the need to allocate 6% of total income — and totals understood as a whole — because it is a demand from the audiovisual sector, a sector not only necessary for culture, but also for the employment of this country, a fundamental sector. But also with regard to promoting language and audiovisual, as CRTVG is an essential element of normalization of language in a country that lacks English media, because we see every time the data of language between youth and childhood descend and in time we see the director general transfer to us the data that only 2,000 people in the range between 4 and 24 years old saw TVG in 2016. There is no bet on quality content for youth and childhood. But besides, there's also a failure to comply with the 2010 General Audiovisual Law with the subtitles that there should be programs for deaf people, because, by calculating the total emission times, they only reach 13.5%, when this general law speaks of 75%. In short, there are the cuts behind them, but above all, there is the lack of political will to have a public media, because we live in a country of the most conflicting of the state—this was recognized by the Government Sub-Delegation itself, of the People's Party—but instead of devoting time to broadcasts—let us put on chance— from the TVG to major mobilizations such as the one that occurred against the Touro mine, in which there was not in CRTVG a global image in which the magnitude of people who went to Santiago to manifest themselves, but if they were assigned minutes and minutes to see how, for example, the Jabaris penetrated into the urban hull of Cambre because they were destroying or even saying the excellences of granite tanks for the designation of origin of the Low Queens, or even if they put the microphone to such a Xani Manolo, that last year, in the report on the public service of the CRTVG, it was...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u93	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u94	...the most important news that had turned on the networks, and that would be positive. The CRTVG sucks it, of course; it sucks it by placing the micro on the machists; however, the mobilizations are done. We support this amendment proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u95	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. I ask Members, for there is a rumor that I think there is a lot of trouble to the person who's talking to everyone — who comes from several places, at different times — that, if they want to talk, they can go outside, that there's a great room and sofas and places to be able to talk. So you have the floor now, Mrs Arias Rodríguez, by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u96	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I'm not going to talk about the Bipartite today, I'm not going to talk about that intended to exercise manipulation in the media that carried out the Bipartite. Today, since we've come to talk about media, I'm just going to talk about actuality. And today makes me think that Law 9/2011, of the public media of audiovisual communication in Galicia, is a good law. It is a law that adapts CRTVG's public service services to the new demands of the sector and an increasingly dynamic and innovative market and ensures that this public service is carried out independently and professionally. From here also my support for all journalists who are in all parts of the world doing their work and trying to do so independently and professionally, also in all parts of Spain. A law for a radio and a public television that in the time of its vigil achieved economic and financial solvency, labor stability and leadership in the audiences. A law which establishes, among other principles, that the director will be elected by the Galician Parliament by the reinforced majority of two-thirds of the members of the House, the same as most required for the Board of Directors, that majority that you have broken up in Madrid. You weren't worth it — PSOE gentlemen, Mr. En Marea-We can — a reinforced majority, you weren't worth a majority that was absolute, not even a simple majority, not even a public contest. The first thing you did when you arrived at the Government was to make a decree to make a designation of the director and the Board of Directors to the extent, a Board of Directors and the director who satisfies Sanchez's desires for power, the aspirations for control of the public media of Churches and the independent aspirations. That's how you do things. [[Applause]] And I tell him clearly and sincerely: I am proud that the Government of Greece, with which I share the words, had not at any time even been tempted to interfere in any way with the appointment of the director and the governing bodies of CRTVG. Honestly, PSOE gentlemen, with the show you're giving these weeks in Madrid, at least it attracts the attention that you are presenting here today with this initiative; finally, there you are. [[Murmurs.]] For the People's Group, public media is a non-negotiable independence. Public media don't enter the market, in any kind of market. The television model of Pedro Sánchez and Pablo Iglesias in Galicia is not worth us; neither in Spain. [[Applause]] You don't try to matter, no. Here the director of CRTVG is elected to Parliament, he is elected with a strong majority, and that's how we want him to continue to do it. That is why we consider this law to be a good law, a law in which we want it to continue to be fulfilled as it is already being fulfilled, that it will continue to be complied with — it will taste us all — with greater speed. Mr. Álvarez, you said so too. You recognized here a few minutes ago that in the process in which the Company was, the Corporation, at this time it was very difficult to move forward more; you said so. We also want it to continue to be done. But, look, to say you haven't done anything is to lie. On January 1, 2016, the Corporation was born. Previously, the framework mandate would be published for a nine-year term. In January 2016 the Board of Directors was appointed for a period of five years, on a proposal from the Popular and Socialist groups. At this time, the rules of the Council's Rules of Procedure, the rules governing the issue of advertising, the criteria governing the editorial direction of the Corporation have been adopted. And currently working on the preparation of the professional status and the Information Council, something that is up to the Board of Directors. And, according to the law, because we do comply with the law, in Article 18, "the members of the Governing Council, in the exercise of their office, act independently and neutrally, without being able to receive instructions, guidelines or any other kind of indication of the Government, the Administration, the political parties or other institutions or entities". It therefore does not seem reasonable — depending on what the law itself says — that we want to set deadlines for it from here on. It's not reasonable, Mrs. Rodil, unless you consider that when you want to intervene and that's not manipulation, and when you don't want it, no. Because you didn't think it was manipulation to come here to ask that the CRTVG programming had been changed and that it had changed from outside, not from inside. That didn't sound like manipulation, did it? And the truth, Mrs. Verao, you spoke of sadness here today. Sadness should cause you the way they intend to do with Spanish Radio and Television; that should cause you sadness. Of course, ultimately, the only thing they do is to comply with the wishes that Mr. Churches has already expressed here in the Crown; it was right here in Galicia where he said so. He said it already in 2013 and explained how best it is to control an autonomous television — he referred to the South Canal — as a councillor; he said: "The Tourism Council for you, to give me the TV set, give me one of the TVs a day and you are dedicated to managing the golf courses of Andalusia, which give many jobs and everything you want," he said. And he also said to Galicia Ano Zero: "If anyone has to have them — the media— he has to be controlled by something called State," and, of course, he did. Ana Pardo de Vera told me in a tweet on June 29th, and I still read literally: "On Monday Pablo Iglesias called me to tell me that President Sánchez and he had reached an agreement so that the appointments of Spanish Radiotelevision depended on Podemos. I wanted her to be provisionally chaired." Poor!, it was one of those after going out and coming back, and erase a thousand and peak tweets, for it looks like it won't be elected. Anyway, these are the things that were said. And Mrs. Verao also talked about manipulation. Of course, during the past few weeks, eight concelers from Podemos and Left United were charged with corruption, a dozen PSOE public prosecutors from several places have been arrested, the president of the Valencian Parliament, the Pablo Iglesias party has already become political formation with more public charges charged from all over Spain. How much of that did you talk about on Spanish TV? Let's minutes, let's see how long he's been devoted to it. [[Murmurs.]] But we're going to follow the initiative that surprisingly brings us here today the PSOE. He was talking about a program contract. We have already spoken here and in the committee too many times - and you agreed - that, with the tax problems of autonomous televisions at the moment, this is not the most suitable time for the programme contract. As far as funding for the German audiovisual sector was concerned, you spoke here, Mr. Álvarez, of Basque Television and of that 6%; 6% — according to what you say and is true — that meets Basque television, but also fulfills the autonomous television of Galicia since its inception, even over that 6%. In another paragraph of point 7 you also asked to expand the type of income you were counting on for that 6%. Once again, it is more surprising that you maintain this petition today when you know perfectly well that on June 28th — even now — the Supreme Court dismisses the appeal brought by Agapi against a judgement by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. By the way, a proposal that you are sure you knew well, because, by chance, it was based on a report drawn up on your day by today's PSdEG spokesman and signing this bill, Joaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga. Finally, from the PP we bet on this model of Radio and Public Television away from control, a model with a solvency financial and economic management, with zero debt, with a surplus already maintained for nine consecutive years. I know, Mr. Álvarez, that you don't like anything about audiences. But, look, the public media, to meet the goal for what was created, have to have audiences, because if we don't, we wouldn't get to the people who want our target. And the audiences say that the TVG in 2017 had a screen cut of 10.4 in total of the day; it's the TV most seen in the news slot, and, in the Spanish set, the second most seen TV...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u97	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u98	...after Catalan, instead of autonomous televisions. So our bet is to continue to develop this law, which we consider to be a good law, and, of course, to be made with the greatest speed within existing possibilities. That is why we cannot vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u99	Thank you very much, Mrs Arias. Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u100	Thank you again, Mr. President. For going by order of intervention, Mrs. Rodil, well, of course, the fact that I see a professional status published with proper consent by the television and radio professionals would eliminate the problem you referred to. Of course, you've all come to know, because, after all, we all have a certain political capacity. I made a first intervention relatively called to consensus, not to confront any of the House's groups, it is seen that with little success and with different intensity in the lack of success. In your case, well, you don't like the law, it's possible. I think it's a valid law; they may not like it, but we're going to apply it in its entirety, which is what we've come to ask here with this proposal, this request to take into consideration this amendment of the law. And from that point on, who prevents us from changing a law if we see that there are aspects of that law that don't work? No one, of course. I am grateful, in any case, as in the case of Mrs Vázquez Verao, for supporting this initiative. I agree with what Mrs Vázquez Verao said about the interference of political power, of course, but let's say that it was not part of my argumental line in that first intervention, called to seek, in a sterile manner, a consensus to support that law. Mrs. Arias, I have the same feeling I sometimes had when I was about to teach math for the institutes of Galicia ahead. When, after I was explaining for an hour something, I would come up the next day and some students would ask me a question, I would ask myself, what did I say the week before? What have we been talking about here? Have we been talking about the CEO's mandate? Have we been talking about program contracts? Have we been talking about professional status? Have we been talking about the creation of 6% of the Audiovisual Authority, the Council of Informatives? Or have we been talking about anything else? How dare you say that there is no political involvement in the Galician Radiotelevision, ladies and gentlemen — especially those of the People's Party —? This is the screen capture of a Galician TV show at noon where you see a citizen referring to the People's Party that died for corruption; this was at noon; that same news at night has no citizen, no sign or sign, nothing! [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez shows a photograph.]] [[Mr. Álvarez Martínez shows another photograph.]] [[Applause]] Mrs. Arias, you... what's wrong with Mr. Veiga? [[Murmurs.]] He's making fun of it!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u101	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u102	No, no, no. He was talking about Mr. Vega, who must be hyperventilating, because he makes a series of movements that are beginning to worry me; I don't know what a problem he has. This is the reality of non-political interference in Galician television. It's obvious, isn't it? How will there be interference? Of course not! This was just an accident. You were talking — and I haven't, of course, time — about the Spanish Radiotelevision situation. I don't have time, because, even if I had him here, I wouldn't have time to read every time the People's Party in the State Government called for reports when he was about to reach an agreement to renew the organs of the Radiotelevision. We had to ask for a report behind each other, we all knew! How do you come to talk about the problem there was for the equivalent appointment or equivalent appointments on the Spanish Radiotelevision. For God's sake! Anyway... No, it has nothing to do with, indeed, it has nothing to do with it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Tell you that I have a problem talking about audiences. No, the problem is not that I have a problem with talking about audiences; the problem is the audiences, they're coming down. It's not like I say it, it's about the data, and you know it. I don't have any problems. I wish it wasn't true that they were downloading the Galician Radiotelevision audiences! And you came here boasting that the Corporation owes zero? But how are you not gonna get it? How will you not have it if you have any financial problems and you owe it to the Council of Galicia, as is your obligation, to balance the economic situation of the Corporation? How are you not going to have zero debt? Man, please! Actually, you had a very unfortunate intervention today, because you came here to say some things -- although I understand you have to defend -- that there is no rush, there is no need to comply with the law so quickly, we have time, after all, we have only spent a few years late... but it's also true that there is a saying...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u103	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u104	...—Finished—which says that "what was in a hurry also died." Thank you for your support, gentlemen of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Let's move on to the next point. Debate taken into account by the G.P. of En Marea, so as to regulate the health and socio-health advertising of centres and activities in the Autonomous Community of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u106	For the presentation of the bill, Mrs. Solla Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u107	Thank you, President. Welcome to our guests and guests who are following this debate today, waiting for this procedure to pass this bill of law that it presents today in Marea. We conclude here today with the introduction of this bill a job, a job to listen to the demands of professionals, people who use health services, and to accumulate examples during the last few years of work, essentially in the Health Committee, which showed the need to regulate health and socio-health advertising in our country. Our Autonomous Community does not have any laws regulating the advertising of health services that a private or a company can offer. There is currently a decree of March 97/1998, for this purpose, but it is a very limited and certainly obsolete standard — twenty years ago — with little practical application to monitor possible fraud and with no participation of professionals in the control of these possible frauds. Several are the motivations we have to present this bill, which I will move in a somer way. The first, and which today motivates most of our guests and guests in the public and the collectives and professional schools, is essentially professional intrusion in health matters. Over the past few years, some professional schools, such as Physiotherapy, Podology, Psychology, or Associations, such as the Matronas Association, among others, have repeatedly denounced the proliferation of false professional services or fraudulent training by false professional courses that do not really offer any official title or are not provided by any type of person who has health qualifications. Professional intrusion is a crime which is defined in the Criminal Code, in Article 403, which prohibits and regulates the penalties for the exercise of acts belonging to a profession without having the corresponding title and derived from the exercise of this activity, its advertising or from doing so in a place open to the public. However, all of us can understand that the criminal code does not in itself mean that there are mechanisms available to professionals and users to denounce and that the administration is proactive in pursuing the frauds committed in the field of intrusion. More than a year ago, it was the General Council of Dentists, which called for the Council of Galicia, which was also meeting, and I think that with the President of the Council of Galicia, to regulate health advertising with a specific law for the Autonomous Community. He asked the president for a text guaranteeing the quality of care, the health of citizenship, avoiding misleading messages and ensuring strict, comprehensible and true information without the possibility of deception. A couple of months ago it was the College of Podology that warned, by setting an example, of the proliferation of shops or sports material businesses that interfered in professional skills with alleged footing studies. This is just one example of all cases of intrusion reported by health professionals. The Union also affirmed last year in this plenary that it had carried out the Health Inspectorate thirty actions against professional intrusion, without defining what those actions were. The figure, of course, is ironic in all light, because only and, by setting an example, the College of Psychologists and Psychologists in this country has moved that it has opened in the last year thirty and a dossier in the matter of intrusion. If we add to those of previous schools and professional associations that I just named and surely many others, it becomes clear that not all the efforts required by the Administration are being made, and that's the first motivation we are presenting this bill. The second motivation is the struggle against the lack of sufficient information about treatments in some centres or by some professionals related to side effects or treatments themselves. We have transferred here, and also in Commission 5a, the complaints made by some groups, such as that of being affected and affected by refractory surgery, complaints which have not been taken into account by the Health Administration, which have also been neglected in the Health Committee of this Parliament, and nevertheless despite the extensive evidentiary documentation delivered, concerning the sequelae of many people, has not been heeded and, however, has motivated files by the Association for the Self-regulation of the Commercial Communication. [[Autocontrol]] Recently, only a month ago, I have been declared in section 1a, in relation to some of the allegations made about misleading advertising, that some of these clinics actually did misleading advertising and forced themselves to withdraw that advertising and pay the costs to some of these clinics. We do not want it to be a private body, without prejudice to the self-regulation that may want to do the sector itself, which must be taken care of something as elementary as the right to people's health and the guarantee that people who attend a clinic or to the service of a particular at the time, of course, to undergo treatment that they consider to be appropriate at the time; they must have the necessary information. And thirdly, the third motivation why we also present this rule — and that somehow justifies the inclusion of the term "sociosanitary" in the text as well, and that is why I am going to explain it — would be the necessary control of those health services as well as health care services of clinics and centres that are offered through advertising with reference to health services. We have a lot of social devices and businesses here and we have denounced the proliferation of many private businesses in the area of social care in our country, such as homes, senior homes, day centres, care centres for people with functional or cognitive diversity, which, in many cases, also have health services within their possible portfolio. It seems to us that they cannot stay out of control of those health services that they generally offer to the population to which they are addressed. Last year we denounced in Commission 5a, by setting an example, a case that meant a paradigm within misleading health advertising, but in relation to a social welfare service: a residential home of older people who offered health services to those who did not finally count. We received this complaint because it was finally the professionals of the public system, the Galician Health Service, who had to take care of the attention of these older people. We transferred it to Commission 5th and it was not taken into account. The Health Council ignored and, finally, surprisingly, it was the Social Policy Council that had to open a file to this residential home. Unfortunately to this day, because we have knowledge of health professionals from the Galician Health Service, the situation remains the same and they continue to offer a number of services that do not exist. We understand that no private company can play with the health of people who are coming to their services and that obviously have to be subject to the same control if they are of a social nature but have health services within their existence, as we have just moved; they can be residences or care centers of people with functional diversity. So we understand that these aspects cannot all be without control or strict control, and we therefore present this text. In order to work on this text, we obviously take into account various regulations in the State on the subject: the previous and current decree of the year 1998, also of our Autonomous Community, which then drafted by the Council of Galicia; Law 2/2012, a Galician general protection of consumer and user persons; of course, Law 8/2008, of Galician health; and Law 14/1986, general health care, as principles of practical consecration of the right to health; the Statute of autonomy, which regulates competences in health matters; Law 34/1988, general publicity; and the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2007, of the recast text of the Consumer and User Law. Similarly, as I have said, we have observed the obviously functioning and the eve of the relevant texts in the different autonomous communities that have regulated this right to protection for users and this right to the protection of professionals against professional intrusion and the recommendations we have received all these months from health professionals. We have established from our group a period of public consultation, in which we have sent the text for its participation in professional schools, associations, unions, assuming most of the recommendations made on the text itself. I must greatly thank the work and opinion of the professional and professional schools that have decided to participate and work with us, because, although it is a discreet text, it is not an excessively broad regulation, it is of enormous interest and enormous importance to fight precisely this serious problem of professional intrusion, and we are seeing — and months ago we have already discussed it here at some point — judgments that take place later when you could probably have intervened long before about the publicity offered by these health services. The major novelty of this text is Article 4, previous administrative authorization, because the ruling that has so far been in operation by the Council of Galicia from 1998 established the possibility that this administrative authorization could be regulated, but it was not done so at any time. This authorization is the condition of the possible health and socio-health advertising, the control of administration and the control of professionals. What does that mean? That in order to advertise a service, a clinic, a care, it will have to pass an administrative authorization in order to make that advertising, and that will largely eliminate — of course, it will not be 100% surely — a relevant part of the possibility of that intrusion or that misleading advertising. In this rule, Article 7 defines how this administrative application for health advertising should be made and in Article 10 we define an advertising control commission, consisting of nineteen vowels, representing the Administration, the University, patients, trade unions, consumers and professional schools. Obviously, if this rule passes the procedure, it is subject to group opinions and evaluations about its composition. It works in other autonomous communities some similar commission. We wanted the citizen element to be much more involved than the burden of administration, as is the case in other committees, and it seemed to us that it could be consulted precisely by the participation that professionals and professionals have to have in their opinion essentially about intrusion, but also on the other that I have just explained, about possible misleading advertising. So it's relevant as a monitoring and monitoring body not only for reporting, but we also understand that it can be the body that is responsible for this advertising monitoring, that is, it can act proactively to avoid cases that we have just defined and that usually denounce professional schools. And, in short, by adding the system itself as a sanctioner of administrative law in our country, it's a proposal for a rule that tries — and I'll finish by now — to protect, firstly, the rights of professionals and professionals. People make a lot of effort to study their careers, their vocational training cycles, to have proper training and according to scientific evidence. We understand that professional intrusion must be avoided. We also understand that our Autonomous Community has competence and has sufficient work to say that it has to protect these people's right to pursue their profession without any intrusion. And secondly, the people who use these health and socio-sanitary services, who want to protect themselves so much from misleading advertising from some services that do not have the result offered as obviously false or false professional or false training that does not really have the guarantee of protection to health, also enshrined in our Self-Government Statute. It is possible, ladies and gentlemen, that the parliamentary groups observe the need to supplement this text, to make contributions, or even to disagree with some point in this text. I say: we try to do so as much as possible, but we understand that it is the presentation, a presentation by this Parliament, which you have to debate and discuss about the content to give you the greatest possible use to protect these rights that I have just transferred. And we therefore hope that the parliamentary groups will vote in favour of this consideration, so that it will be precisely within the framework of that statement in which we put the text and give it its final drafting. Nothing else for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u108	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. The rest of the parliamentary groups have the floor to Mrs Prado Cores, representing the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u109	Good morning. Also greet the people who accompany us today following this debate. And, indeed, deceptive advertising is a problem of our society. Well, it's true that it doesn't only affect professionals, professions and health products, but in this case it's of particular importance because what's at stake is health, even people's lives, and therefore action is needed to protect them. Misleading advertising and intrusion expose citizenship to serious risks, but also to an important non-defense in the face of a bad practice of direct consequences and a possible claim of its consequences. In the health sector, mass media play an important role. Media content creates and consolidates behaviors, beliefs, values, many of which will influence consumers, consumers. Especially large corporations find themselves in advertising, through the big media, the best ally to sell their products, most of the time they don't need for health and much less for life. The concern about this situation of misleading advertising, intrusion, bad practices in directly professional activities, directly health or pseudo-sanitary activities, is evident in many collectives. Some of them, in fact, have been contacted by the parliamentary groups here in this Parliament to move their concerns on various issues, and in particular on what we are dealing with. Physiotherapists, podologists, dentists and other kinds of collectives have contacted us to move their concern about the proliferation of these bad practices; a situation that has indeed directly implications for professionals, but also — and is not less — for users. And from a physical point of view, from what I've just talked about, other collectives, such as the College of Psychologists and Psychologists, have also transferred to us aspects related to their activity. Professionals who do not in many cases have skills or training to perform those practices that they offer. And that, on the one hand, has unfair competition, obviously for professionals, and then the consequences for people who receive these services, when one of the fundamental objectives has to be to protect the population of this kind of practice. It is relatively easy to find on the websites unaccredited pseudo-scientific content, in most cases even dangerous, hidden behind misleading advertising, of double meaning, with which the safeguard of health, the safety of patients and citizens remains in question. Pseudoscience, miracle products, false therapies and intrusion, of course, must be fought. Misleading advertising is not only a crime, it's clearly a fraud. And that's why they offer results many times that it's not possible to ensure. The final prices often aren't what they say they're on ads. It treats health not as a right, but as an asset of consumption. And it is clear that we must protect health, as well as protection, as a good of the most precious. Of course, we think we need to control health advertising. Citizens with a disease are especially vulnerable, they are easily caught by this advertising, and they have expectations that in most cases they cannot be verified soon, and often they are subjected to unnecessary overtreatment and with over-costs that are not necessary, and we believe that there is indeed a need to regulate it. I also mean, at this point, that this regulation is necessary. I would, of course, point out that we are going to support this consideration, which we also believe that, after taking into consideration, if we vote favourably — and we believe that yes, that it would be good, that we have to address aspects, we must enrich it with aspects such as the topic of the Internet, the networks, which is not in this initial text, and we believe that right now through these formats is a very important aspect of advertising that is being issued. It is also a very important aspect that, with scarce regulation, it would also be sufficient to act if you wanted to act on the aspect of the inspection, and you are not acting; there is a regulation — I say — not enough, but, with what there is, it is not acting in a sufficient way. About a year ago, the People's Party brought to this House a non-law proposition where it was trying to throw balloons outside the state government that it regulates, when Galicia has competences and here we are now debating taking into consideration a bill proposal, which shows that there are competences but that they have not been wanted to exercise, or whether we want to act with the continuance that can be done. Which shows that regulation is necessary, but then we have to have the political will to want to exercise it and really want to act to combat this misleading advertising and intrusion. And indeed, there are other communities that have regulations: the Basque Country, Navarre, Asturias, Murcia and Aragon, where duties have been done, and in some cases for a long time, in the case of Basque Country since 1991; i.e. that it has rained, they have already made a renewal of regulations. So what I mean by this is that there are very powerful elements, especially in the field of advertising and large corporations, that want to put the brake on which it is regulated, and above all that then applies to regulation. That's where the problem really is. And that, of course, from the BNG we want to urge this regulation to be taken into consideration, that we enrich it — I think it is possible to do so — but that, above all, there is the political will to follow up and act on the post-approval of the regulation, which is where the question really is. Because commercial interests, in general, in everything that affects health, are there, and commercial advertising in the health field, in the sale of health as a market product, where we are sold, if we are designed a fabulous world based on the philosophy of happiness; happiness is to have a body 10, a Hollywood smile, a tersa cute... and where soon all this is packed properly and sold properly as health and as goods and from administrations we collaborate eagerly to achieve that goal. And I say that with insufficient regulation there are mechanisms to act if you want to do so. If so far it has not been done, it is because it is really not meant to do as much as it was really necessary to do, even though — I insist, and today there are representatives of many of these groups — it was very enthusiastic that it was necessary to do so. There were examples of cases that were happening, even with the collaboration of the Administration, and there were brought to this Parliament examples of entities that were being misused and that, despite that, Galician Union was providing them with funds and subsidies for their activity, when they were making undue use of it. With which — I insist — BNG will vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal, and we will try the procedure after tabling our contributions. But then we will also insist that, after that approval, if you follow up and, above all, you put a lot of emphasis on the inspection phase. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u111	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good morning, too, to the people who accompany us in the rostrum for an interesting debate. We believe from the Socialist Group that it is a really relevant debate and that it needs to regulate and improve the situation in order to protect not only users but especially professionals. We believe this is a debate that deserves special attention. That is why, in fact, this House has already had prior discussions on this issue. Our group has presented a non-law proposal, an interpellation and then a motion in this House about intrusion. There's been a non-law proposal by the People's Party on health advertising specifically. And — in fact — we believe that it is necessary to regulate it, because we are talking about a question, about health advertising and intrusion, which affects very specific issues and which addresses something very dangerous, which is the trust of users. Difficult personal situations that are resolved through supposed pseudo-scientific professions that take advantage of people's weaknesses and difficult circumstances, to, through methods that are not validated at all and that have no scientific evidence of validity, be able to take advantage of the difficulties that people experience. We — if we do so in advance — will support this consideration. I will kill some of the issues that we believe might be debated during their proceedings, because we believe that they may be interesting, but we believe that we need to have the opportunity to debate. In addition, from our point of view, there is an apparent consensus on this issue. In the debates I mentioned earlier and in the positions that all groups have expressed in those and other previous debates, there have been some issues that we share in common. There has now been an exposition of the rapporteur's rather clarifying legal situation. We have basically shared, as the previous proposals have said, the need to improve legislation, a regulation that needs to be updated, which is necessary to have more concreteness, which can, as the spokesperson for the Nationalist Block Galego, bring with greater emphasis the need to adapt it to the autonomic sphere, and there is a need to improve. There is also the need for more participation in scientific societies. We're not in vain defending scientific evidence and scientific method as a method of work. And there's a problem of deception and risk on users. Of course, there's a tax fraud problem and there's a problem about professionals, about the value and the image they have in their profession, but there's also a problem of deception and risk. In that we all agreed in the last debates, and we believe that this is a very important basis for all groups of the House to be able to adopt this consideration and from then on to discuss the possibility of improving or polishing — as it has been said here — this bill. However, there are — and from our group we see the need to reflect on it in this debate — some discrepancies. We, from the Socialist Group, believe that there was some helplessness on the part of the Galician Union about users and professionals. I'll cite three cases. In the first case, it should be recalled — because here it was cited as an anecdote and even disregarding the fact that it was mentioned — that the Igape, obviously dependent on Galician Union, strengthened, helped, contributed to the development of some company that is dedicated to announcing practices for those who do not have permission, for those who do not have scientific qualifications. The only excuse that has been given is that the Galician board doesn't have to go into advertising and what any company does to help. We consider it impossible to consider that you can help a new company if there is no clear check that you are doing what is announced to say. It was a complaint made by a professional school, in this case of physiotherapy, that did not really receive an answer from the Galician board. In the debate on the questioning that our Socialist Group — which I had the opportunity to defend here before the Health Counsellor — made about intrusion, it was stressed that there were not so many complaints in Galicia about this issue, and it was cited at that time that between 2015 and 2017 there were thirty complaints about intrusion. It's hard to hold some data like this when in one year, a single professional school -- and there are several examples: psychology or physiotherapy -- has filed more than thirty complaints. It was said here that in three years, only thirty were presented throughout Galicia on all professions, and that's not true. I think it's very difficult to maintain a solid debate if the data are distorted, when they're also very easily verifiable. Thirdly — and I think this also has some relevance to comment on it — a certain guilt attributed to professionals has been cited here. Nothing further from our consideration! But we think it's important to remember to know what kind of positions we have to fight. It was also mentioned here on his day, by the councillor, some scientific article that literally said: "the responsibility, apart from the staff that falls on each of the goods that sell smoke, it is up to the scientists, unable to educate and disseminate well about what we do." Our group doesn't consider guilt to be precisely those who do their job well, it would be more missing! It is true that this article also says: "sign it also to politicians, who seem to ignore that pseudoscience is not just an alarming magician, but should be regarded as a fraud." We'll be extremely happy not to consider this a fraud. And we are obliged to quote it because it is true that one of the advantages of the change of Government of Spain is the possible fight against pseudosciences. And here I also want to make a little incision. Not long ago, very few months ago, the Ministry of Health was regulating pseudosciences and allowing such issues as homeopathy — probably one of the most well-known ones — to be mentioned. Even making it easier not to cover the fees to be covered by other medicines, and to be losing EUR 1.2 million for the state. And besides -- which is much more serious -- enabling and considering methods validated homeopathy, when it's not. From our point of view, it's a conceptual debate. Luckily, one of the advisors who at that time most fought against this at the Interterritorial Council was that of the Valencian Community, which is now Minister of Health. That's why we welcome the fact that pseudosciences have a very difficult point to overcome now, before this government, that they had no doubt or uncertainty about the previous one; fortunately, there are issues in which we are moving forward in this country. Conceptually — we say — what is the debate, therefore, that we are giving? The debate is to fight the reactionary — also in the scientific field — and the debate is to fight against what does not respect scientific evidence; the debate is basically to maintain that health professionals are needed. This seems quite obvious, but it's not so obvious seeing the current reality. We need to be aware of reality and be powerful. It is not possible to admit the anti-active speeches that are given very easily from many places. I remember still not much public television validating a presenter who talked about vaccines producing some kind of disease, and it shames me to repeat his words! And nothing happened. The chakras, the reikis, the flow, the priests, the homeopathy must be eliminated from scientific debate. Science sustains science, scientific methods. And that is why — and even though some of the people I quoted are funded by the public system within Sergas — we believe that health care is for health professionals, because they guarantee us the quality of care. Also outside the public system we must protect those who, without being part of the public system, contribute to our health system through their businesses, through their businesses. But what they have to do — and it must be demanded because they do it well — is to demand that they do it with all the regulation in their hands, with all the capacity and training they have, which is very good. And, therefore, we must protect them too. So, finally, we will support this consideration. We believe, as I said, that there are some nuances that need to be done, and in the short time that I have left, I wanted to explain some of them so that we can discuss them in the process. We believe it is interesting to debate the need to regulate offers and advertising on some of the methods that are being evaluated, but do not deny the possibility that there is supply and advertising resources on it. Because the problem is not the advertising resource or the offer, but the problem is what it's about. If what is made of offers is not valid and it is a method that we must not validate, of course, we must prohibit it. But we must not forbid anyone because there may be methods, or even marketing proposals of some highly validated method of some clinic, even from the system itself, which can have their own campaigns and which must be validated in that sense. We want the control committee — which is an idea with real interest — to have some debate, first, on its composition. We believe it is very well oriented, but there may be groups that consider the need to review that composition. And also, in a way, whether it should be binding or advisory. Apparently, the legal wording that is proposed gives it a more consultative character, but in some matters we could debate whether it has to be at some binding points and not at others; if it is always consultative, if it is always binding. It should be a debate that we believe is important. And we also believe, lastly, that we should regulate the situation in which the Galego Institute of Consumption and Competition remains, which has so far had some of the competences in this regard. It is seen, in the case of the Igape, that it is not well exercised, but we must also clarify what its real competence is and what situation remains. In all this we believe it is possible to move forward. But returning to the beginning, and to close our intervention, if we believe that there are spaces for the agreement, it was thus demonstrated by the interventions, by the positions, that the groups defended. We believe it is a good opportunity to defend this and we would be glad to continue this proposal. We are going to vote in favour, with the conviction that, if we have all shown points of agreement, we believe that the points in disagreement are shaded and workable. That's why, from our group, not only that support for consideration, but all our willingness to work for a legislation that we insist on is especially necessary and in a very worrying situation. And we think that, from there on, we can all work together to get something better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u112	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Friend.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u113	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. I also greet the health friends who accompany us in the gallery. The regulatory framework for regulating the legal regime of advertising includes three types of standards: standards which are intended to regulate advertising activity in general; sectoral, more specific standards on specific aspects of advertising and regulatory goods or services; and rules governing different media, because of their impact on advertising. The statement of reasons of the bill explained to us aims to expand and strengthen the legislative framework so that advertising of products, health centres and health and socio-health activities must be rejected in Galicia. It should be noted that not only are all the general rules of application mentioned in the history of the proposed law, but also the sectoral rules are not mentioned. In this sense, the absence of reference to Royal Decree 1907/1996 on advertising and commercial promotion of products, activities or services intended for health purposes is significant, since this constitutes the main basic regulatory standard currently applicable. No reference is made to the basic legislation, both state-owned — Royal Decree 1277/2003 — and autonomous — Decree 12/2009 — concerning the authorisation of health centres, services and establishments. Despite the importance that is given in the articulation of the text to the advertising of these health centres, services and establishments. Similarly, there is no mention of Law 44/2003 of 21 November on the management of health professions. You also have the provisions of the text that contains regarding the advertising of health professionals. It is of course true that the health services and products market is trying to continue to grow with the use of different commercial techniques, and advertising has a key role in recent years as a broadcaster of information on certain products and services, in order to encourage the capture of new patients. This makes advertising not only comply with the minimum legal requirements, but also with the demanding and desirable in such a sensitive area as people's health. This is a problem that concerns the People's Party, and I would like to remind you that in this same plenary room on May 17 of last year we presented a GNP in which we urge the Galician Parliament to address the Government of Spain to improve and clarify the regulation of health advertising in relation to centres, establishments, goods and services, to avoid misleading advertisements; especially by limiting everything that could constitute a risk to health; and, of course, by counting on professional schools for this. The whole opposition was abated in this vote. In order to avoid these situations, Law 34/1988 of 11 November 1988, general advertising, regulates Article 3 of advertising, illegal advertising, to avoid creating conflict situations and causing damage and prejudice, both in people's health and in their heritage sphere. The advertising of sanitary materials and products is reflected in Article 5. On the basis of this rule, the Autonomous Community of Galicia approved Decree 97/1998 of 20 March 1998 on health advertising in the community, which has as its object the control of health advertising, as well as any other that in the territorial sphere of the autonomous community performs health care centres, services and establishments, as well as healthcare professionals; and generally developed by any person, public or private, in the exercise of commercial, industrial, professional or other activity, which by any means aims to promote, directly or indirectly, the recruitment of goods, activities or services which may have a positive or negative impact on the health of persons. And it is important to note that the current legislative framework allows for the development and implementation of appropriate inspection and control measures on all those advertising messages that violate the principles of transparency, accuracy and veracity imposed by the general and sectoral implementing legislation. The text of the bill that they bring here today is composed of 20 articles, 1 additional provision, 1 final provision, 1 derogation provision and 1 annex. We begin with Article 1, the object of the norm; and Article 2, which speaks of the regulation of health advertising and socio-health advertising. There was talk here about the need for and the difference between socio-health centres and health centres. It is considered that the distinction between health and socio-health advertising does not respond to a need for the current reality, since socio-health centres are subject to the criteria of authorization of health centres and services, and so require hospital accreditation on the basis of the single article of the Order of 28 November 2012. There is no difference between the object of this provision of law brought here today and the object of Decree 97/1998 of 20 March, so health advertising is regulated in the Autonomous Community of Galicia. As regards the scope, which is set out in Article 3 and in the Annex, to say that the wording of Article 3 is inconcrete and confusing, since this article refers to the annex to the bill, and the said annex consists of a relationship of types of health care centres, services and establishments mixed with different care offers, without such a relationship being understood as referring to the expression — and I will read textually — "to all those who have the purpose of providing health and socio-health services". It should be noted that, in respect of the authorisation scheme for health facilities, services and establishments, the prior authorisation for the operation of health centres is taken into account in Royal Decree 1907/1996, and that the purpose of which is to protect the health of consumers. The advertising of health centres and services and the provision they provide must be adjusted to the content of the prior operating authorisation granted by the health authority of the Autonomous Community. With regard to the prior administrative authorisation, it should be noted that it is not specified in the proposal which the body is to grant the requested authorisation. It is indicated that the authorisations granted will be entered in the Health and Sociosanitary Advertising Register under the General Inspection, Authorization and Accreditation Branch of Health Services and that they will be subject to a five-year supervision. In the Autonomous Community of Galicia, before the entry into force of Decree 97/1998 of 20 March, prior administrative authorisation was required for any form of advertising aimed at promoting direct or indirect procurement of goods, rights, obligations and services performed by natural and legal persons. With regard to the Committee on Health and Socio-Health Advertising, the proposal provides that the Commission will maintain as one of its guiding principles the agility in processing and resolving applications. However, its function is to issue a report on the processing of applications, having no authority in the resolution of the procedure, which means an inconcretion in the proposed text itself. With regard to the advertising register, to say that there is already a register of health centres, services and establishments, and it is considered that the creation of this register would create intra-administrative duplications and violate the requirement to apply the principles of efficiency and administrative efficiency. On the basis of the above, we believe that the proposed law that they propose today, far from strengthening the legal framework in the field of health advertising, incurs in inaccuracies and lack of conviction, so its literal content does not result in any improvement with respect to the current legislative framework. The strengthening of the control of advertising intended by the figures set out in the bill, such as the establishment of an administrative authorization procedure prior to the establishment of the Advertising Control Commission and the establishment of a register of such advertising, are not new figures in the Greek legal system in this matter, since they were in force prior to the adoption of the aforementioned Decree 97/98 of 20 March, so in this sense the bill does not provide anything new. We have maintained our PNL position that I mentioned earlier and that we present at the plenary in May 2017. We think the legislation has to have a change, and that change has to come from state level. We asked for this from the previous government and followed by asking the new Government of the State, of Spain, what we are asking for in this very PNL. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Friend. Replica. Author group of the bill, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u115	Thank you, President. Firstly, I would like to thank the opposition groups for their support for this bill and indeed for the transfer of these comments and for the enrichment that was expected if the majority group had decided to vote in favour of the consideration. In fact, we have a very difficult field of study, not only in health matters, but in general, related to the use of networks, the Internet and the control of advertising itself. It is true that the inspection is another element that could better act on advertising and on the very authorization of health activities and health centres, but we believe that regulating and acting on the advertising that is issued will favour or prevent in some cases from becoming effective the case of intrusism or, of course, misleading advertising. As far as the Socialist Party is concerned, it would be necessary to determine the competence of the Galego Institute of Consumption and Competition — which is redundant — in relation to how this control is carried out or what are the responsibilities of the bodies. In any case, indeed, the framework of the Presidency where they speak, discuss and make proposals in this area. We deeply regret that the People's Party has to use excuses not to regulate against the fraud of some health service and against professional intrusion. We deeply regret it, because the professionals who have given us a hand or given their opinion are not from any political group, but are working for the sake of their professions, and there is at present a fairly relevant lake in the area of regulation of health advertising. If the People's Group understood that the text had to be improved, what it should do is to vote in favour of its consideration and to introduce during the Phoenician period the improvements or proposals they consider in this matter. It's pretty incomprehensible to ask the Ministry of Health what the self-government is not able to do. We have a truly obsolete decree. You have been in the government for a decade now and have really done nothing to regulate something in which you have competence; skills transferred in health matters, which are determined in the Statute of Self-Government and in the Constitution, but competences which, in addition, motivate you to regulate precisely this decree of 1998, because if there were no competences, you could not regulate -- if Mr Fraga's Government -- in that matter. Nor could this bill pass, because the House's legal services could not accept it. However, you, instead of taking sides with the professionals and the rights of the people who attend the services, what they do is to look after the powers of the Ministry. Look, in this country there is a principle called regulatory hierarchy, and it is certainly not contradictory that the Ministry reinforces the fight against misleading advertising or fraud by reviewing the rules that restrict or regulate this type of advertising and that avoid professional intrusion in some way; it is not, of course, exclusive. And without prejudice to being asked by the Ministry, you could use your health, health and advertising skills. The fact that it also motivates us to have an autonomous law on advertising globally in this autonomous community. "There's a lot of noise." [[Strong murmurers.]] Therefore, there is no political or legal excuse for voting against this bill, but the vagancy of a government that does not want to do its work on regulating health advertising. They do a weak favor not to our group, of course, not to all the opposition groups, but to the struggle against professional intrusion, because, of course, not even with this element would be merely to fight against it; there is also, indeed, a need for means of inspection, much work to pursue this possible fraud, and of course, we regret very much that today they shield themselves in excuses to defraud professionals and to avoid their responsibilities in regulating the right to health in our country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. After the debate on the legislative texts was closed, we proceeded to the vote. Close the doors, please. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u117	We begin by voting on the dictates, individual votes and amendments. We begin by voting on the individual votes numbers 1 and 2 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. We vote. Votes for particular votes number 1 and 2 of G.P. G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego to Ditame issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the Proposal for a Law, to refer to the Congress of Deputies, organic transfer of the title and competences of AP-9 to Junta de Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; against, 55. The result of the vote is negative. These particular votes of the G.P. are therefore rejected. of the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u118	We are now voting on amendments to the Parlia­mentary Group on the Environment. We vote. Vote for Amendments Nos 1 to 3 of the G.P. From Marea to Ditame issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the Proposal for a Law, to refer to the Congress of Deputies, organic transfer of the title and competences of AP-9 to the Council of Galicia. When the vote was taken, it gave the following result: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 55. The result of the vote is negative. These G.P. amendments are therefore rejected. From Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u119	We are now voting on the Commission's opinion, and in this case the votes have not been incorporated. All Members are warned that the majority are absolutely required, in accordance with Article 163.2 of the Galician Parliament's Rules of Procedure. We vote for this dictation. Voting of the Ditame issued by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the Proposal for a Law, to refer to the Congress of Deputies, an organ for the transfer of the title and competences of AP-9 to the Council of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 75. The voting is positive. This measure is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u120	And now, as adopted by this ruling, the number of members of the House is fixed for the defence of the bill before the Congress of Deputies. [[Mr. Bará Torres asks for the floor.]] Mr. Bará, what do you want the word for? Give a voice to Mr Bará's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u121	As we explained in the debate, we call for the withdrawal of this point, firstly, on a formal issue, because it was not at the Speaker's Board, and also because we think that there is a time limit for agreement on this matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u122	Thank you. Does it require support from any of the other groups?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u123	Yes, retreat.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u124	Does it require support from any of the groups? [[Mr. Villares Naveira asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Villares?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u125	The people of En Marea do not oppose Mr Bará's proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u126	Thank you. They don't oppose... that is, they support that proposal. [[Murmurs.]] Any more spokespersons? [[Mr. Puy Fraga asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Puy?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u127	If there are two groups representing most of the opposition that prefer to postpone this election, we have no drawback, as we wouldn't have to vote for it now. I do not oppose the proposal of the Bloc and En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u128	I'd explain here that the regulation says, according to the lawyers that day, when this was dealt with at the Speaker's Board... it's already implicit what we're going to do now, that, given that no one's opposed, we're not going to do it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But I would like to make it clear that the work of both the Presidency and the lawyers is the right thing to do. Of course, because if we don't, we'd always have the doubt that... then, in this case... I already know that I'm a lot to take by the lawyers......to avoid being mistaken. [[Murmurs.]] In other parliaments we already know it's not like this, but I'm not going to get into this now. So we don't vote. That question is therefore postponed. We are now voting on the proposal for a law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia, amending Law 9/2011 of 9 November 2011 on the public media for audiovisual communication in Galicia. We vote. Vote on the proposal for a law of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, amending Law 9/2011, of 9 November, of the public media of audiovisual communication of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, the consideration of this bill is rejected. We now vote to take account of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea Bill, which regulates the health and socio-health advertising of centres and activities in the Autonomous Community of Galicia. We vote. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. de En Marea, so it regulates the health and socio-health advertising of centers and activities in the autonomous community of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. Consequently, the consideration of this bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u129	We suspended the meeting until 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u130	We resume the session, with the third item on the agenda, of appearances. The opinion of Mrs. Counsellor for the Sea, on his own request, to inform of the demands proposed by Galicia regarding the reformulation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, known as the FEMP, and the work carried out for its achievement
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u131	To make this appearance you have the word of the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u132	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. I compare today in this House to taking account of the proposal and the starting position of a key element in the development of our maritime-fishing sector and our marine-industry chain, which lies in budgetary support in its commitment to competitiveness. Without a doubt, in front of us and our sector, we are opening up a field of decision-making in the European Union of great importance for our future. We have four work programmes before us that will directly affect our activity and that focus, firstly, on Brexit, with a significant impact on the Great Sun fleet and the Malvinas, and with a clear influence on the marketing of sea products. Secondly, within the regulatory framework, with a significant influence on the day-to-day fishing activity, and which has in the amendments to the Control Regulation and the technical measures their maximum exponents. Thirdly — but no less important — we would place the application of the ban on discards and the achievement of the most sustainable yield, issues that cross and are key to our fishing. The fourth element lies in this aspect of the European budget, which has to do with the amendment of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, has to do with this amendment of the FEMP and has to do with Galicia, because the progress of it in maritime fisheries is not understood without the European budgetary tool and the FEMP is not understood without Galicia. This reciprocal importance is revealed in data that say Galicia is the most important part of fishing Europe. We own 5% of the fleet, we generate 10% of the European Maritime and Fisheries Employment, we land 11% of the European Union's fresh fisheries, we produce 14% of the aquaculture products in Europe and we are the main region in the production of fish and seafood conserves. However, I believe that the fact that exemplifies this importance is what reports the weight of the added value obtained by the sector, since the proportion is twenty-five times higher in Galicia than in the European Union as a whole. As a result, this weight must — and must — be transferred to the budgetary field. For this period Galicia has EUR 487 million associated with the FEMP, of which 371 come directly from Europe and the remaining 116 are approached by the State and the Council of Galicia. It's the terms that compare those that highlight this overall figure, since Galicia has more than twenty-one out of twenty-eight Member States, very close to its counties of fishing important countries such as Greece or Portugal. It must also be noted that this importance and key weight has greater influence than in the past, since the result of the negotiation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund led us to move forward in the percentage distribution in the Spanish context, from 44% in the period 2007-2014 to 51% in 2014-2020. However, I think it is important that the Committee of the Regions, of its 300 members, chose Galicia to draw up the new FEMMP proposal. What should it be? What should it contain? This recognition is no small matter, and I think that's how we should reflect it today. But to clarify what the FEMP should be after 2020, we will have to do first what any good navigator would do: determine what position is, see what we have before us, in order to shape a good course. This is what has been done, and as a source we have a European Maritime and Fisheries Fund which has set for direct execution by the Member States of EUR 5,749 million in favour of the European fisheries sector and its basic objectives are focused on achieving sustainable fisheries and aquaculture, improving and advancing data collection and the control system, supporting sustainable coastal development and the generation and implementation of an integrated maritime policy. In addition, we must not forget that this initial situation has elements that make this change necessary and circumstances that motivate many of the issues that we must integrate in this direction. Among these elements that we have to correct before we go out, it would be, firstly, the current consideration of the application of the FEMP, since its implementation was delayed and this caused the consequent delay in the process of the disposition, execution and application of the economic amounts. Secondly, the inadequate definition of FEMP's objectives, which are sick of lack of clarity and confusion, which has led to a lack of focus on the challenges generated by issues such as the maximum sustainable yield or the reduction of discards. This confusion and delay situation has motivated and motivated even if the overall bottom execution figure is low, 8% at the end of 2017 and slowly improving the 2018 level. In this sense, Spain is found at the European Union's average run-up, and Galicia has much to do with that situation, as more than 90% of all state-certified funds are from the German FEMP. Having this situation of departure, we must determine which matters are settled by our own bow and which can force us to navigate carefully. There are undoubtedly two key issues in this determination of influences: on the one hand, Brexit, which changes the scenario in a double way, by affecting some of the approaches, as the United Kingdom is a net contributor to the Community budget and also receiving funds for a sector linked to strong and important fishing. On the other hand, the new multi-year financial framework also comes up with a defining element of our course, since the foreseeable economic contraction of it can have an important influence on this new course that we want for the FEMMP. Together with these fundamental elements, we will have to put all those challenges that touch us. On the one hand, the practical situation of the sector in terms of activity, such as the provision of quotas or changes in costs, and on the other hand the impact of adopting and applying new standards, such as those derived from control regulations, technical measures or even elements as important as the obligation to land all catches. In view of all this, Galicia made a proposal that defined a clear "yes" to the possibility of having a new European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. "Yes" means a fund that we need as well as the European Union needs this sector in social and economic terms. It must also be a 'yes' as far as we understand that the funds previously applied to fishing have worked: IFOP, FEP and even this FEMP, which starts slowly, have all been positive to the sector if we see it in perspective. We know that, in quantitative terms, especially in employment and ships, we cannot compete with the past, but if we take a qualitative picture of the sector, the progress that has affected European fishing in the last twenty-five years and also in Galicia, if we take account of the discharge figures and the value of fishing, this has been undeniable. And how did you get it? Yeah, well, thanks to these funds. What if we wanted to make use was a yes to a bottom that must be specific for fishing, shellfish, aquaculture and the sea-industry chain, as well as for coastal development and the progress of the blue economy on our backs. A fund that must have a horizontal and generic part to meet common challenges for all coastal areas and all Member States, but also a fundamental and priority part, designed to suit each sector in each country. Among the common denominators that should have the application of this fund in the Member States there would have to be several key objectives for all European fisheries and which could be summarized in five priorities that Galicia believes are essential for progress and improvement in the future. First — and indispensable — to address the generational relief; this generational relief is the key element of the future and is based on the support of funds in matters such as the formation and quality of life on board fishing vessels. The second, focusing again on the adequacy of the fishing effort, with particular attention to the consequences of the regulatory measures, whether temporary or definitive. The third, focused on the support of organizational improvement and the strengthening of the collective spirit of common goods, these goods that are in the sea and back, so that they can improve their exploitation and management. The fourth, designed to cope with the support of a competitive transformation in a special way against foreign pressure and knowing that closing borders is the unauthorized and unrecommended option. The fifth — also important — is the continuity and expansion of support for the diversification and economic complementation of the sector, especially in rural coastal areas, an option in which Galicia has made a very firm bet; that is to say, to strengthen participatory local development strategies. But the existence of a specific fund must not ignore the importance of coordinating efforts within and outside the background. It is necessary to establish between whether this background should be stagnant in its execution or whether we can and should generate synergies and integrate efforts. We believe in Galicia — and so shared by all the European regions — that the spirit which must preside over this new fund must be rejected by two words: adding and integrating. We must add the synergies offered by other funds, such as the EAFRD, the ERDF or the European Social Fund. And that is why the new fund must seek the sum of synergies and integrate the capacity of other sectoral funds, especially with regard to the specific of the Blue Economy Horizon 2020, in order to generate additional jobs and economic growth through smart investments in innovative and forward-looking enterprises. But one of the main questions must also be centered on the very definition of the background. For Galicia, applying this new background should be accompanied by two adjectives in its definition: simplified and adapted. Simplified, because, by starting from the initial complexity imposed on it from Europe to fund management, it joins the one applied to each state and regional level by the regulations on subsidies and public aid. Adapted, because the regulation of this fund by the same lines of other funds and its regulatory rigidity and the lack of adaptation to the sector and its operation can lead to situations of imbalance between needs and the possibilities of support. We want the fund to be effective, and for that, in addition to having clear purposes and being simplified and adapted, we must ensure that the funds reach priorities, enhance efficiency in their application and achieve a multiplier effect of these aids. Experience generally tells us that the impact of the European economic approach on maritime-fishing and the coastal area can vary significantly depending on the tools through which the fund is channelled, in addition to generating divergences over the final result. So the next step in this process of defining a position in the face of the need to reformulate the FEMP must focus on its application, that is, how to apply it, to whom to direct it, where to apply it. And among these are several dichotomies: by choosing between direct aids or financial instruments, whether they are separate from the establishment or not of co-locations for large companies or on the basis of their activity — whether this marketer, transformer or extractive — whether or not delimiting economic and territorial limits of the bottom between large urban cores or coastal adjacent territories with a link to the same as parishes or municipalities near the sea. And since the Council of the Sea we have made it clear that direct public support in the form of grants is a guarantee of the viability of the proposal and the best option, since we have managed to guarantee control of destination and the application of money, to generate a direct dynamising effect on the economy, to stimulate initiatives in matters that are rooted in the objectives of the common fisheries policy, and also to contribute to building confidence and securing funding by serving as a support to the achievement of funds for investments. In the second element we also have clear that aid should be recovered to high-volume companies or invoicing, even if it was partially and on certain axes, since their boosting capacity in matters such as R & D+i or the improvement of labour standards may be lost due to lack of aid. As regards the spaces in which we apply the background, we also have clear evidence that there are large urban nuclei with marked sea-fishing character and linkage that must be able to obtain support from the FEMMP, as well as dynamizing spaces near the coast with strong contact and connection with it, having as an example those nuclei of villages and villages that are located near important ports and confrries, and in those who live many people linked to them. Finally — and speaking about our proposal and its position on what we can call the international dimension of the FEMMP — we have to point out our belief in three aspects in this area. The first is about the convenience of a differentiated approach for each of the sea basins, where we believe that European regions are very different between us and that Europe tends to give us a unique size response, so we must face a new FEM with a high degree of adaptation to each sea basin. The second is how we should deal with the budget gap resulting from Brexit and in which we reiterate that this process is a challenge but it can also be an opportunity, so we believe that we must face a new FEMMP that assumes and tries to correct those weak points that can result from preserving the unity of fishing Europe. The third aspect, on the basis of this substance of the issues arising from the international dimension not specifically assigned to the common fisheries policy, and in which we propose that there be a part of the fund that addresses the external action of the common fisheries policy in an integrated way. Ladies and gentlemen, these are, in short, the premises that President Núñez Feijóo has defended before the Committee of the Regions in this important matter whose proposal guidance has been entrusted to Galicia. I would even like to highlight — if not less — the importance of being the president himself who defends this position for the benefit of the sector. This position was based on a proposal that we have been holding for months, which was presented at the invitation of DG MARE during the participation in the stakeholder conference entitled "Beyond 2020, support for the coastal communities of Europe", which was held in Tallinn in October 2017. But this proposal was not just from Galicia. It has been enriched originally with the comings and opinions gathered at all meetings of the Committee of the Regions and with the members of the European sector held in January this year, and with the proposals, concerns and opinions of many members of the Greek sector that have been communicated to us on the basis of experience and in relation to this FEMP fund in these months of vigency. The proposal for this measure was also made for consideration and debate and before the regions of the North Sea in the Netherlands, at the Conference of peripheral and maritime regions in Brussels, and was later explained to the actors of the European Maritime Environment on European Maritime Day. It has also been improved, without affecting the basic ideas I have just exposed them, by the eleven amendments in committee and thirty-five in full that were formulated, which were accepted either directly or by making a proposal by the rapporteur in eight of them, or by commitment, as was the case by two. The proposal document was analysed in January and was considered by the NAT Commission on 9 March and adopted without any further difficulty, which was referred to on 16 May at the plenary session of the Committee of the Regions itself. It is worth noting that this text has been adopted unanimously, which is not ballad, if we consider that this plenary is made up of 300 European regions and municipalities, of all colours and political formations, and that it is not common for this unanimity to take place in its own right. That is why I believe that from here on we must put emphasis on the work and the collaboration and contribution of all and how many have come up with ideas and proposals, as well as our sector, which has given us the basis on which to build this opinion, which has come not only from Galicia but from all over the coastal and inland Europe. Following this initiative by the Committee of the Regions as a whole, the European Commission's first proposal was launched early in June to gather the content and its idea of underpinning the objectives and the application of the money. With this proposal, with funds for the new period FEMP 2020-2027, in its shared management area, it would amount to EUR 5.311 million, which means a slight reduction in the amount of this period, which amounts to EUR 5.749 million. This assessment of the figure must be stopped after the value of the UK programme, which is EUR 243 million, would therefore be nominally allocated to the Member States 96.5% of the 2014-2020 budget and would be harmonised around 94%. As a result of this proposal, Spain maintains a potential allocation of EUR 1,120 million for this period, compared with the 1,161 of those available to us in the current period. It must be emphasized that the new instrument collects our demands in a generic way, and with the first lines we can say that we agree on the basic aspects of our demand. A specific fisheries fund is still maintained, forming a horizontal and generic part managed by the European Union and other specifically suitable for Member States. It continues to maintain objectives similar to the previous FEMP, and, while being defined in a generic way, the new FEMP focuses on three objectives similar to the previous one and on the defendant's line, such as safeguarding healthy seas and oceans, providing sustainable fisheries and aquaculture and promoting the blue economy, particularly through the promotion of sustainable coastal communities. The fund will be implemented in a direct way by the European Union and also in a shared way and there will be great flexibility for Member States to adapt their measures to the objectives set by the European Union. Grants and financial instruments will be the main financing tools, coincidentally with our request and our vision. The improvement in the definition of aspects to be budgetaryly supported is enhanced, giving Member States such definition capacity through a system of objectives and results. It's becoming special in simplification and axillization, and generally several avenues of work are already being collected on these two objectives, increasing also the flexibility of use and application of the background through permission to make agile changes and adaptations to changing situations. The possibility of combining and coordinating the use of different funds is explicitly collected. Therefore, the general lines do not appear to be negative to our demands, but we will have to heed that letter of regulation to verify that those negative or uncollected aspects take the best course and are in our interests. I'm talking about issues such as the refusal to allow the fleet to be renewed, even if I have to pretend to improve safety and housing; I'm talking about issues such as the derivation of support for all initiatives to improve training and aquaculture through financial instruments; or I'm talking about matters such as restricting access to aid for the assimilation of IU fishing and ordinary fishing sanctions. All of this must be reviewed and we must argue for your change. So much so that we believe that the important thing is not only to propose, but that proposal is consolidated and formulated in the documents of the regulation. That's why we have to work everywhere to change that direction from the more detailed aspects. On that line we've already started defining actions a while ago. As an example, it serves the practical explanation we made to the person responsible for bringing this proposal forward by DG MARE who visited Galicia a few months ago to know and value our demands. But it's about working now and in the future. That is why we want to form a working group within the Galician Fisheries Council with the sector that will allow us to join their demands and strengthen their arguments to defend them in Europe as well. We think we're on our way. We want to reinforce those arguments, and that is why we are going to give the sector a new voice so that it takes on concerns and proposals, which I also want to bring to this Parliament in the next part-session for its knowledge and debate. Ladies and gentlemen, I know you will be in line to defend those interests and join them from this House, strengthening Galicia's position and allowing our maritime-fishing structure to be heard again in Europe. With that belief, I look forward to their considerations and proposals from this very moment on, when I end up not only reiterating that desire to add ideas and arguments to our sea and to the proper budget support that must come to us from Europe. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u133	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u134	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. The first thing I want to say to you is to regret that you come here to this Parliament almost as a final station. And after months of having gone to the Committee of the Regions to make that first draft of the dictame, after you and the President of the Board to present the dictame and who considers that this Parliament is the place to bring elements like this to account, not to come to what we can make proposals from this Parliament so that you can take them, and consider that from this Parliament we have no proposal to make, but that you come here to make your report exclusively and that we have no contribution to make. Well, that's what the People's Party is considering towards the Galician Parliament. He didn't even have the details of sending us the report that you have prepared and transferred to the Committee of the Regions and that they have been presented to seek this support from the Committee of the Regions. It would have been a small detail that had sent us that report, a detail. But not even today, on which you came to appear, I could at least have sent us the report, and not even that. It would be a detail of elegance to have done it. You have the opportunity, after you've finished your appearance, to at least transfer that report to us, by parliamentary elegance. The next question is that I don't know if you fell off the road to Damascus or on the way to the Committee of the Regions, and then if you make an amendment to the whole fisheries policy that you've been doing all these years -- and then you're making a whole amendment -- or just this proposal that you made on the Committee of the Regions is simple literature, behind which you've hidden a little more from it. And I say this because in the reform of the common fisheries policy of the year 2014 they took no advantage of the opportunity to modify the foundations of that common fisheries policy so damaging to our interests, to the interests of the Welsh fishing, which are those foundations in which the entire fishing policy of distribution of quotas, fishing rights and so on, which results in the situation of our fleet and our productive sectors. And in this renewal of the common fisheries policy of 2014 nothing was touched, absolutely nothing was touched, the principle of relative stability, nothing was touched. The FEMP funds that are in force, 2014-2020, also in their literature, said words that sounded good, just like you just described us now. He said that the objectives were to promote sustainable fishing, to encourage sustainable aquaculture, to encourage the application of the common fisheries policy, to increase employment and social cohesion, to promote marketing and transformation... that's what he said. The reality of these years of funding, in which we are still, is that first of all those allocations of nearly 6 billion European Union funds, in which the Spanish State has touched around 6 billion euros — 6,161 million euros — of which Galicia has touched 370 million euros, is 44.72 % more or less. One process of centralization where, first, whoever decides what is done with the funds is the European Union and the Spanish State, and the German Government and you are responsible for executing what others decide. The first question of these funds is to execute what others decide. You, the German Government, let it be the state that had decided how much it was divided and how it was distributed and that the State had also reserved for itself a quantity, a percentage greater than the previous funds; that is, more centralization and more funds the state in Madrid, as we know, which has a lot of sea. We know that Madrid has a lot of sea, with more money left. It's very logical, all very logical, within a logic where they keep the theory from the European Union, shared by Madrid, that Galicia has more boats than fishing rights. Which, following that logic, as Galicia has more boats than fishing rights, must go to that balance where ships must be eliminated to match fishing rights. With which a very important part of these funds were destined for that balance, i.e., to eliminate ships so that ships with fishing rights are balanced. With which more than 73 million and a peak of euros were destined for the scrapping of ships. We can keep breaking up games. Sustainable development had EUR 929 million — it was in general — and a breakdown we considered, of course, discriminatory at the BNG. In the so-called "control and execution of fishing effort" Galicia accounted for 6.6 % of the investment and 77 million euros. For example, there is an issue that draws our attention to this allocation of the FEMMP funds. There's a game for a question, the compensation of the outermost regions, for example for the Canary Islands; it seems to us well, a compensation for being an outermost region. What we don't think is that, since Galicia is a highly fishing-dependent region, there is no concept to compensate for this issue and that in this concept there is zero euros; 61 million euros to compensate Canarias for being an ultraperipheral region and zero euros to compensate Galicia for being a highly dependent region of fishing. Or to promote marketing and processing industry, 9.1%, 105.6 million euros. It would be all right, but what's the point? That all that money is destined for the industry and that can carry subsidies without linking to the extractive sector, they can carry subsidies without being linked to the extractive sector, they can bring product from the outside without that amount of subsidies being used as a tractor for their own product. So, what did all those millions of euros from the FEMP funds do for? Of course not so that a traditional model that generates employment and settlement of the population in our coastal villages could receive those funds, Mrs. Quintana. The marqueo, the bass, the artisanal fleet, the aquaculture linked to the mussel have certainly not received funds for this matter. What if they received funds was aquaculture, an important part of thinking, animal welfare, antibiotics... that's the clearest bet of these funds. That's why our concern, and I say this with all honesty: we're because we're keeping these funds and supporting a government that fights in a determined way for the maintenance of these structural funds specifically for fishing, because for Galicia fishing and the sea is a key strategic sector. That's where we're going to agree completely. Now, for one or another direction, for a change of course totally of 360 degrees — not 360 degrees, because we would go back to the point of origin — 180 degrees, a change of course of 180 degrees, a structural fund of the European Union linked and specific for fishing but going in the direction of developing, modernising our fishing sector, serving as a strategy for our productive model, not to replace our productive model, our system of craftsmanly bass fishing, the seafood, for industrial fishing linked to a model with foreign capital, which is for what they serve and are destined for the FEMP funds, to develop the strategy of the European Union, in which the Spanish State agrees and, unfortunately, throughout this time, has been its Government, Madam Quintana. So if you're really in the literature that you just said, we'd agree; what we don't agree with is that this literature serves...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u135	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u136	...to trap us and then in practice do the same practice they've been doing up to here. Of course we won't agree with that. If they are to make a genuine amendment to the whole of what they've been doing up to here, they'll certainly have BNG's support, if they're done as a whole amendment to the fishing policy they've done so far, and they really agree with what they say about what they're doing. So far what they said they did didn't match what they did, at all. First, they let themselves decide what the European Union and the Spanish State are doing and they applied these funds to dismantle the sector. Now, if what they're really fighting is for a real change of direction, for a generational relief, for a bet on our productive sector, for the shellfish, for artisanal fishing, for bass, then we'll agree, as long as it feels sympathy for reality. And I take advantage of your presence here, Mrs. Quintana, because we are talking about European funds and how the new, linked to European funds, of help received from your son linked to these European funds and not clarified, and I would be grateful to you for your reply to explain whether you consider that European funds should have this treatment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u138	...from then dark, opaque and unclarified, as that help received by his son. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Toja. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, quiet. Quiet, quiet, please. Quiet, quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence on both sides, please. That's it. Mrs. Toja, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u140	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. I'm also glad you're here today... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, please...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u141	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u142	It's just that this is almost a habit. There's hardly anyone here to talk about.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u143	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u144	I am especially glad that you are here today in Parliament to talk about European funds. It comes a little late, because you said to add up, to add up, but in a certain way, when it's practically all added up. It is true that we consult the members and the people we are here in Parliament always late, sometimes we have no reports and nothing comes to us. And it seems to us an important issue about European funds, especially because of the demographic situation that Galicia suffers, as we are losing about 10,000 people a year, since you rule around ninety-five thousand people, and the projection of the IGE presents a bleak picture, around two hundred and thirty thousand people around 2031. This is why European funds are important, because in the common fisheries policy we are talking about the social criterion, which is to establish the population in the case of fishing in coastal towns. But also this, and in relation to the question that the BNG companion has asked you, it will also give you the opportunity to clarify some questions that are there that are unanswered, neither of you nor of the Government, and, in addition, questions that we ask for by article 9 already in May and today we have no answer. But by going to parts, firstly, to talk about the enormous importance of European funds for Galicia at the fishing level, at the rural level, it is true that in the European Union, if we look at it in GT, Spain is a quarter of all the ships that are there, and if we look at it by the European Register of Vessels, it is the third of the Community fleet, and about 22% of the total employment of the European Union is generated by fishing. We have more than a thousand known species of commercial interest. There is therefore no doubt that fishing is fundamental within the European Union for Galicia, Spain, and the importance of the Maritime Fisheries Fund. That is the photograph — let us say — and that, as we said, the social criterion and the economic criterion: social criteria, fixing the population, and economics, which is an economically profitable activity. Is it therefore necessary to maintain that specific and accessible fishing fund in order to implement the common fisheries policy? Yes. For what? In order to ensure sustainability — as you have told us — to establish a selection plan in order to avoid discards, to reduce the financial burden of the obligation to land, to ultimately also achieve that objective of sustainable maximum yield. The common fisheries policy is the competence of the European Union and therefore the financial funds available to the European Union must be sufficient to meet precisely those objectives of the common fisheries policy. Finally, three ideas. Brexit cannot be used as an excuse to reduce future funding. Financial funds have to be maintained, they have to be constant and sufficient. It is also necessary, according to the sector, to give greater clarity to the FEMP. In the processing of aid people complain much that it is very heavy, a very large administrative burden, and it needs simplification, and ensure that, for the European Fisheries Fund after 2020, at least, it is faster, less bureaucratic, and at least — as we said — the same amount. So we agree: they're important. The European Maritime and Fisheries Fund is crucial, it is important. So far we agree. What can the Government do? Well, move them to the Welsh budget, so that those goals that tell us of that budget back. You cannot talk to us here today about improving livingability, improving security, improving investment on board, when it turns out that in budgets on board investments are reduced from EUR 1.3 million to EUR 200,000 between 2017 and 2018; health and safety is increased from EUR 900,000 to €300,000; training to under 30, 800,000 to 400,000; help to Thursday, from 500,000 to 300,000. So you say things on the one hand, but then, at the time of truth, that is when you have to put the money, so don't do it. Without losing sight that in the program 723A executions are around 30% and, in 2017, 37%. We therefore repeat: the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, which is very important. Can the government do anything different? Of course it does, as far as it moves it to the Greek budgets and, above all, how it executes it. So far we agree. Therefore, funds, fundamentals. But we will also agree, just as so far, that there is precisely a European Union mandate on the pursuit of fraud in the management of funds. And if we agree that they are elementary, and if we agree that we have to pursue fraud, we will also agree that the Greek Government has to ensure that they are handled according to legality and that they are handled especially by ensuring equal opportunities for all those people who apply for this type of grant. And you told us today about trust, and we're going to talk about transparency too. Transparency, which must be a central element in political action, in order to dignify politics. [[Applause]] And not because we say it either, but because you also say it in your Act 1/2016, of January 18, when they talk about transparency and good government, when they talk about the high positions of public administrations and when they talk about the conflict of public and personal interests, and when they talk about individuals, they also include, within the people, the family. And here you have to explain and you have to give answers, because so far — and as we told you before — it was requested by article 9 documentation to which they did not answer. And there's an order, which you can read in DOG 64 of 31 March, which sets out aid for the creation of companies, and in that order Article 7 says it is essential to present the municipal licence by 15 September 2017; it has subsequently expanded to 16 October; but the order sets out in Article 7 that the municipal licence must be submitted before 16 October. And he adds: "The failure to meet this requirement will mean the refusal of aid." So, no license, no help. It's as easy as that. Well, on December 12, 2017, when the aid is made public, as you know, among the beneficiaries, a relative of yours. And yet, when you consult, it turns out that the municipal license is dated March 28, 2017. The requirement for establishing the bases, which say that, if there is no license, there is no help, it is not fulfilled, because the license is later, several months after October 16, which was the date for the presentation of the municipal licences. So you come to talk about European funds and we have to have the assurance that you are a trusted person to manage these European funds. Not because we ask him, either, but because he's also being asked by the sector. From Agrarian Unions there is a demand for more light, they call upon the Executive of the Union to ensure that there was the same treatment for all applicants. Since the Galician Labour Union, it also draws attention to the resignation of the grant. If the aid was inappropriate or rectified, they should show that there were no prior irregularities. So trust, yes, but explain, explain, please, what happened here. Transparency is a central element in public action and you have to explain it today. The question is clear: there was no municipal license; therefore, how could that license be granted? Now to go a bit back to the issue of European funds, I repeat: important these funds of what I've talked about before, are also European funds...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u145	Quiet, please. If not, I have to call the order on one side and on the other, and I don't like it. No, no, quiet. Please be quiet. [[Murmurs.]] That's it, quiet. Continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u146	Thank you. We agree — I repeat — on the enormous importance of European funds. So let's add, as you say, especially with regard to that social and economic criterion. We see how Galicia loses its population constantly and that Brexit, indeed, cannot be an excuse for reducing European funds. So far we agree. But — we repeat — what can't be said is that you talk to us about investments on board, the importance of all those concepts that you have said and then in budgets that are reduced even to half or even a third of the budget shares. Therefore, from Galicia you can do better, much better. You can improve executions, which are around 30%; 30% means that, out of every 10 euros, 7 are not executed. That's a lot. And finally, also, light, light, more light on a matter that is worrying about the management of European funds and that generates the livestock sector uncertainty and creates distrust as well. And you spoke to us today in confidence. Well, explain. We are waiting for your answers, as they have not answered us by article 9. I repeat: we really wait for the answer; you probably have something to explain today. Nothing else, thank you for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Sorry, I didn't see anything. Honestly, I didn't see anything. I didn't see, I didn't see. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's just that I can't do anything about what I didn't see, I was looking at who was playing the turn of words right now. [[Protests.]] If that's the case, it's wrong. But let's see, you can't now accuse me of something I haven't seen. You make me, they do me now... and I tell the counselor that, if he really did that, he shouldn't. [[Murmurs.]] Point. Quiet, that's it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I haven't seen him. You can believe I haven't seen him. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, quiet, please. Quiet, quiet! I've already asked the advisor not to do that. That's it, that's it. I've already asked for it. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, quiet. Quiet, quiet. Quiet, please! Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's it. No dialogue, if not... please, Mr. Losada. If not, I have to call him in order. Mr. Losada, that's it. I don't want to. Not one more. Mrs. Quinteiro, your turn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u148	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. [[Murmurs.]] The truth is, sometimes... the changes, when they come from one side, they usually just listen more, but well... [[Murmurs.]] We, speaking of appearance, the first thing we have to say, before this appearance, is that we think the Council's performance is wrong, for two reasons. On the one hand, on the bottom of the question, on which I will focus most of the intervention, but also another important issue, which is the very way in which the debates are going forward. As has already been said, for us this appearance is late, because it comes in this Parliament to inform but not to do what we believe should be done in this Parliament, which is to debate and listen to the different opinions. And we understand that it would have been much more appropriate to share and discuss what Galicia's position on the reformulation of this European fund in the context of the negotiation of the European Union's long-term budgets before moving it to the European Council of the Regions itself in May. We understand, therefore, that this appearance is late and that it would have been quite more appropriate a few months ago. And then, both in the intervention at that time and today, I think that part of a misdiagnosis is wrong. I don't know if they're starting from a misdiagnosis or selling a different analysis. Because often they seem to show little concern about the well-being of an important part of the sector. And we're saying this because we haven't made a brief reference to the dramatic situation that's going through the sector, and it's crucial for us that we start a proper diagnosis so we can put in place the measures to solve the situation. For us the situation is dramatic, because it is evidenced by the data and because it is commented by all the people who live at sea. And that's why we think it's important that we keep some data in mind when we address this kind of debate. I will only give two figures which have been mentioned in this Parliament on many occasions, but which we should reflect on them whenever we address these debates. Since 2011 we have lost 1,500 people in the special sea regime, from 21,509 in 2011 to 20.10.10 in April this year. And we've also lost over 400 fishing vessels since 2009. And as I said, we can't ignore this data and we can't make a reading that everything's getting better, because reality is totally different. There is no generational relief, one of the priorities that were marked, because macroeconomic data do not subsequently move to the actual economies of mariners and mariners. So we have to say that, to begin with, to find solutions, what we have to do is start with a correct diagnosis and not sell abstract data that doesn't match reality. From the Feijó proposals before the European Committee of the Regions, we wanted to highlight two issues which seem to us to be the most serious. On the one hand, the absolute inconsistencies between what they ask of other authorities and what they do after from the Greek Government within the framework of their competences; and on the other hand, their total surrender to the blue economy, without questioning the problems they have. Once again — it is true — under a suggestive title, behind this title they actually hide the surrender to the great multinationals for the exploitation of the sea and the maritime subsoil. We think this is a wrong bet, that we're on a drift that, if you don't stop, will end up expelling our fishermen, sailors and seafarers from a disputed space, which is sea space. That's why we don't understand that since the Government is betting on this bad, so-called blue economy, because it's going to be a social, economic and environmental downturn for our small-scale artisanal fishing, and because it's actually compromising the future of our quarries — you know — among other things because it includes activities such as industrial aquaculture, the promotion of marine explorations for mining and energy exploitation. That is why, as I said, we cannot understand that this bet is made, because the only objective to defend this bet can be to benefit the great multinationals. And the effects are already being seen, for example, in the plans of the Great Sun for the exploration of hydrocarbons, which, obviously, will clearly affect the Welsh fleet. In fact, we don't just say it ourselves. The European Union itself has just drawn up a report warning you of the negative impact of this model, and we understand that they should listen to negative opinions and not sell this word that sounds very well but that behind it hides a reality quite different from what is intended to be sold. Then, when we talk about the FEMMP, we think one of the fundamental problems -- and you also said it -- is that the degree of execution is low, but we would say that it's not low, is that it's ridiculous, a completely ridiculous figure. For us it is totally shocking that the European Union as a whole recognises that only 2,7 % for fishing in November 2017 had been executed, of the 6,500 million euros budgeted, when this fund, as we said, ends in 2020 and starts in 2014. It's not a low number, it's a ridiculous number. That's why we understand that, in addition to claiming that the bottom doesn't have a cut, really the most important thing is that it has acceptable levels of execution, because it's no use for a budget that we then see is being executed in this ridiculous, tiny way. And we understand that one of the problems for these degrees of execution to be so low is that we have to jump through greater decentralization of the priorities and strategies of the funds, because it would be a way of avoiding this low level of execution and, in addition, the problems that are derived from this management. But, as I said, another important issue for us is that we cannot forget the hypocrisy they have in the proposals of this dictatorship. It's very common for them to say one thing and do the opposite. Only by setting three very specific examples, which, in addition, are very recent. At one point he asked to avoid the placing on the market of products manufactured abroad without sufficient controls and, while they are asking for this, at the same time his Government and the People's Parliament approve in this Parliament the increase in the quota of tuna lobes to be imported without tariffs from countries with few health and socio-laborative guarantees. They also call for compensation measures for the fleet for socio-economic prejudices resulting from environmental measures, such as sights, temporary stops and other actions that limit fishing activity, but their group also throws behind each other the initiatives presented from the opposition to establish these aid; very recently, just a few weeks ago, we have seen it with the refusal to compensate for the loss of the dust. Or they also call for support for efforts to develop new technologies and solutions to mitigate climate change, but then they vote on numerous occasions against proposals that we bring to just avert climate change. That's why we often have to focus on inconsistencies. It's useless to say one thing, to write one thing, when then their public policies, recurrently, go on a completely differentiated line. We understand that many times this Parliament seems to be used to make a series of propaganda, to make a press note report many times, and then, at the time of truth, public policies go on a completely different line. Another of the questions which we find very surprising — the truth — of the dictatorship we do not understand, and of which we are totally against, is the express request of the Government of Greece to give a decision which is key to the future of Galicia, and I refer to what is asked of the European Commission to define coastal fishing by hand. For us this is intolerable. It's a debate of the most important ones that the sector is going to face in recent times and we don't understand how, instead of making a quiet debate with the sector, they give in to distant and alien organisms, perhaps with the confidence that later they can blame other institutions, but we don't understand it. In fact, what they should do is to have a quiet debate on this matter, to listen to the sector and to have a proposal that starts from that dialogue and not to say that the European Union determines an issue which, as I say, is central to our country. We understand that, in fact and in summary, what we have to do is a deep and broad debate on the use of European funds, to those who benefit, in which it is failing, because, in fact, the objectives that are listed are not met, because, as I say, there are often objectives but then they are not met at the time of truth and the funds are destined for other activities that are not those that come marked or determined on these objectives. And then -- as I say -- I would say that the summary focuses on what the Government says and then does the opposite. So, my main interpellation is, are you going to comply with that dictame? Are you really betting on what he says? And there are even parts of the dictation that can be contradictory between one point and another. What model do you really defend? What's the model they're defending? They can't say they defend the blue economy and at the same time say they defend artisanal fishing. And we have to mention, taking advantage of this appearance, even though it bothers you, but we think we're asking for some logical explanations, so we add to the request for an explanation about the perception of this assistance from the Rural Council for this unlicensed farm, and we understand that these are some explanations that must be made without any further problems. In short, we've been saying that we must walk towards a model change. Many times, when we talk about Community funds, we see that they are serving to enrich only the industrial fleet of member countries, benefiting certain corporations, and they are often forgotten by most seafarers, most sailors working in our sea. That is why it does not come only to announce objectives, but rather to put the measures and public policies that we need to bet on for that -- let's say -- a different model that puts small-scale artisanal fleets in the center. We would say that the fundamental summary and where we have to see why the situation is dramatic, why we make this statement, is because today the people of our sea have to fish twice as much to earn half. That's the reality. And what we have to do is ask ourselves why today they have to fish twice as much to earn half. And that's the reality they're trying to hide, but that's the reality we always have to talk about. And I will end by again referring to what the intervention opened: in order to find solutions to the problem, we have to use debate, reflection and listening. It cannot be said that if you come here to seek an agreement, to seek a debate, when the whole debate is given, all decisions come unilaterally and from above and, above all, when you start from a reality that is false, from an idealistic image of a country that, unfortunately, is not what we have. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u150	Good afternoon, gentlemen. Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Thank you for attending today's appearance and this plenary, despite the fact that the speeches of the vocabularies were totally regrettable, completely regrettable, because the truth is that you put here with the shoemaker some accusations that have no sustenance, no basis. And since they have no arguments to explain and to talk about this subject, about European seabeds and fisheries, and because the data are positive, they have to come here to try to stain the honorability of Councillor Rosa Quintana. All of Galicia knows, all of Galicia, and this Parliament is the first, this Parliament and these Members are the first, this government the first, but all of Galicia and the fishing sector know the undamaged path and the vocation that Mrs Quintana has in the fisheries sector. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And, therefore, you don't try here calling, as you've been doing all day. And besides, I'm telling you one thing, especially to the Socialist Group, because the Socialist Group has a face here in this Parliament and has another face in WhatsApp and has another face behind it: they talk about transparency and opacity, but falseness here has no limits, no limits. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Unfortunately, the advisor ended his speech by saying that he was open to proposals that could be made to him by the groups. Because we are talking about a fund that will have to be shared by 2020 and will have to be vigilant so that it will benefit Galicia. I'm glad you said that, because we don't know what the proposals you're bringing us are. We came to hear a counselor who spoke clearly, firmly, who also spoke and clearly exposed a road map of the Sea Council. When they ask for roadmaps and reports of what they're going to do, they disagree; when they don't talk, neither do they; it's always the same. We have to have an argument and we could continue with a number of contributions which will be much more beneficial to the sector, in addition, this European Maritime and Fisheries Fund; maritime and fisheries — I insist — because they have not joined the issue of maritime and fisheries aid here. And, therefore, the counselor was clear and said where we came from, what we are and where we want to go. So he put on very clear goals, realistic lines of work, adapted to social reality. And, of course, maritime-fishermen and industrial of Galicia too, Mrs. Prado. Yes, industrial as well, because the sea-industry sector is very important and, in addition, with the passage of time, we have to adapt to Galicia's social reality. He remembered something, moreover, that I find very relevant, and it is the role of this autonomous community in the Committee of the Regions, and the role of the Chair of the Board, Alberto Núñez Feijóo, also in the Committee of the Regions, because of the 300 members, Galicia was chosen — specifically Galicia — to draw up the proposal of what the FéMP should be and should contain. Finally, a presence full of realism, certainty and deeply linked to the interests of the Greek fishing sector; an appearance in the circumstances and not intervention by the spokespersons, unfortunately, that have nothing to do with the subject and that, above all, they try to achieve what they cannot achieve in the polls, because they are unable to win votes and have to try to appeal to this Parliament to try to oppose the People's Party. The Counsellor and this Popular Parliamentary Group and this government are not against anyone, they are in favour of the sector, they are in favour of Galicia. They work for it, not against it. You, in the opposition, must always go against the People's Party, because, if you expose your lines of work, you can't vote and you don't vote for them; you must therefore always be attacking the People's Parliamentary Group. I'm telling you one thing, Mrs. Prado: Mr. Bará was saying today about the transfer of AP-9 that they have the paternity and motherhood of the AP-9 transfer. Look, give me a laugh, because also Mrs Prado often insinuates that they have the paternity and maternity of the Galician fishing sector and it's not true, it's not true! It seems that only you, who does not lead nationalism, do not seem to be able to meet the interests of the fishing sector in Galicia; yes, because they always put on and compare other nationalist governments. And unfortunately for you, but fortunately for the sector, it's ruling the People's Party and so the figures go and so things go well. [[Applause]] You did, Mrs. Prado, a reformulation. Well, it was breaking down the breakdown funds, where there was scrapping, which you guys did, but it didn't talk about the future. We have to be and the exposure that the advisor has made is towards the future. So European funds have done and do a lot of good to Galicia. We have to take a picture looking back and looking towards the future, and for you, for the Block, it's all harmful, it's all black and it's all wrong. Well, that's not true. And in addition, European funds did very well for him and they did very well for Galicia. Mrs. Toja, I don't know where to start with you, because the truth is, I think you're trying to talk with all the respectability and the certainty that you're in the use of reason, and it's not. Then I say I'm so sorry that you had this intervention. And I insist again — because you are in the Socialist Party — that we are going to be very vigilant with the Minister of Fisheries, Mr Planas, because the role of the Socialists in the European Union, the only thing that has brought Galicia in recent years, have been very negative decisions for the sector, both by the ministers and by the European Commissioners, and by the Italian ministers, and by the Commissioners. Yes, Mrs Toja, then we will talk about the amendments — if I have time — so that you know what it proposes for the artisanal sector of fishing by talking precisely about the Committees of the Regions and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, not talking about what you are interested in, to always go against the People's Party, rather than add up, as a fishing spokesman you are. So this government guarantees transparency, guarantees equal opportunities and guarantees a lot of transparency and equal opportunities, not opacity. You're talking about pasta. Yes, it's a folder; I listen a lot to it in the corridors of the administrations of southern Galicia where the PSOE governs. I hear a lot of the word "paste" over there, it seems that votes are only achieved by the word "paste." You said it, yes, that's your way of ruling, talking, always with opacity and favoritism. And, then, you speak here and try to spot -- I insist -- an impeccable path, when you have in your Socialist Party here in Galicia many people, first, who are false among yourselves, are false among your fellow Members of Parliament; and another thing, authentic favorites, because we talk about family members and we talk about imputations that will be or will not be underway. So don't come here, I insist, because today we have to have a debate, we could have had a constructive debate about the future and how European funds should be shared. I'm the one who has to tell Mrs. Toja and she'll know where she has to go. And with regard to what Mrs. Quinteiro said, well, she made a series of contributions. You have your point of view on this subject, but I also insist that the counselor has ended by offering that you bring in and that you do not make an absolute criticism of everything that has been done and everything there is done and, above all, also putting on a false charge, when you, Mrs Quintero, would not mean this, but I have to say, is not legitimate — I say — to question the activity or attitude of some people in this Parliament. We are therefore going to continue to raise specific questions of execution — which have been mentioned here in execution — of the European funds or of the amendments also tabled in the Committee of the Regions, which is really what we are interested in. The reference we have all of the Socialists and Nationalists' work in the Bipartite is not exactly to throw rockets; it's the comparison we have, the four years they ruled here when these funds were running. Neither in Galicia nor in Europe, as I said before, are you to teach lessons, which, among other things, do not give them because they don't have them. And then, therefore, quite the opposite. What are your proposals? He spoke of the tool advisor, he spoke of all possible threats to the sector, he spoke of how those funds can be shared. And here we hear nothing but inflammations, absolute false accusations, because they don't have the right to make any new proposals. Mrs Toja said that in Europe there was a member of the Italian Socialist Group who made a series of amendments that are — it is Mr Milana, for you to know it — very detrimental to Galicia. You must therefore bear in mind that you could come to this Parliament and provide positive data. As time runs out for me, then I'll talk to you in my replica shift and explain why I'm telling you. Let's go to execution, with respect to execution, because, with respect to the Bipartite, this government, on 1 July, in the execution of the 2000-2018 fishing funds has quadrupled the percentages and it is at more than 8 percentage points above, despite the difficulties of running the bottom, taking into account, in addition — as I say — that it was not with the IFOP or with the FEMP, but there were more difficulties. We are now talking about the period 2020-2027 — he also referred to the advisor — and we are talking about EUR 5.311 million, of which 1,120 would be for Spain. So you could talk about what we could do, even though we don't know if that would be the right thing, because during the Bipartite — as I say — the truth is that management was tough and then it came to the polls that didn't make them repeat their mandate. So, as far as the amendments are concerned, Mrs. Toja, I tell you that the Socialist Mr. was trying to carry the Welsh artisanal fishing. And so today, you could amend these actions, you could talk about the benefits that they could bring... yes, yes, yes, yes, change those fisheries policies that you have in Europe, because it's the subject that brings us here today, and not come — as I say — to call. [[Murmurs.]] I am very sorry that you had no contribution; I am very sorry that this debate is, in addition, completely lit up with these issues. And I think, given all the factors exposed by the advisor and taking into account, in addition, a context in which we are with Brexit, the policy of discards, the threats that the sector may have, that you come here to talk about what interests you to have electoral profitability is a real shame, and the sector will take note. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Replica, Counselor of the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u152	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Egerique, thank you very much for your words, for your defense. I hope it really isn't what you've been saying: it's not a debate today about the future of fishing, which is what I come here for thirty years and why I'm going to continue working every day in defense of this sector. [[Applause]] In view of the comments made by the Members of the opposition groups, Mrs Prado and Mrs Toja, in particular, about which I come here as the final station, when Paul fell off the horse, it is not about that. I come here to find out about the work we've been doing. Look, what we have done so far is not Galicia's proposal to manage the new European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. What we have done so far has been, for an order to be given to Galicia by the Committee of the Regions, three hundred and fifty representatives from all regions of Europe, to draw up what we believe should be the new European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. It's not just Galicia's position, it's Europe's position. Galicia will talk from now on. And that's why I ended by saying that we're now setting up a working group in the plenary session of the Galician Fisheries Council, and that work will be what I bring to the Galician Parliament, because I've done it that way when we made Galicia's proposal to reform the common fisheries policy, and it's my way of working always. What we have done so far is to try, with the knowledge we have from Galicia in the maritime-fishing sector and the situation in Europe, to recast all the ideas they had in all regions of the European Union to build the new European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. And that's what I'm here to tell you today. Remember, when we started with this negotiation, one of the main doubts was whether there was a need for a European Maritime and Fisheries Fund or not; that was one of the objectives we had to work on. And from the very first moment we worked with all the regions of the European Union to convince everyone that there was a need for that specific fund for fishing. And, of course, it's very easy to come here and say things that I'm not, really, able to understand — and don't take them as contempt—. It's just that I'd like to be able to understand your proposals so I can explain them and defend them. But, of course, when I'm told that we don't need funds for the transformation industries because they don't generate jobs, Hail Mary pure! More than 13,200 people work in the transformation industries in Galicia! It is that, thanks to the processing industries, Galicia today is the first European fishing region, because it generates more than 6,500 million euros of billing. [[Applause]] But it's just that the people who work at these canteen factories are neither Thailand nor Japan, they're Welsh from Barbanza, they're Germans from Vigo, they're Germans from Panxon. They're Germans who work in these industries. And they work in these transformation industries not only transforming the products that are downloaded daily in our ports, but the products that our shipowners, our shipowners, are fishing in all the seas of the world and arriving in Galicia, and from here we are able to transform them and give value added to our production. That's why I say that all Europe has to learn from the Greeks, that we are able to give 25 times more value added to our products than they do in the rest of the European Union, and that does our transformation industry. [[Applause]] Of course, when I'm told we say one thing and the opposite, and my group is asking you to bring 25,000 tons of tuna lobes without tariffs... Look, we want our industries to work on equal conditions with the rest of the world. What we don't want is that our transformation industries don't pay our workers a decent wage. And in order to pay a decent wage, our industries can be competitive, we need tuna backs to come without tariffs. And that's why we're not harming anyone, nothing more than those who are working without tariffs and wages much lower than those we have here in Galicia. That's how we're going to keep working, and that's not incoherent. On the contrary, I understand, that is to defend all the interests of the links of the sea-industry chain; because one cannot understand any of the links without the presence of others, for that we all form a chain together. And of course, Mrs. Toja says that Brexit cannot be an obstacle. I'm not saying Brexit is an obstacle, I think I also said, in several of the exhibitions I've done, that what someone sees as a danger, we can also see it as an opportunity, but that's why I'm not going to fool my people. I will not say that the fact that the United Kingdom of the European Union is leaving means that the European Union will have less funds. Why? Because the United Kingdom is a contributor to the European Union, so if that country goes away, it will stop providing funds, and then, when it distributes to all funds, there will be less money. While I also say that, regardless of whether the United Kingdom is leaving, it must also be borne in mind that in the particular case of fishing there are EUR 216 million that would go to the United Kingdom which will not now go, and that is why the effect on the European fisheries funds in Spain is not as damaging as the rest of the funds will see. It's not to blame anyone, it's just to talk about the realities we have and be consistent with our way of working and exposing things. Mrs Quinteiro, you say that we have inconsistencies in that statement that you have read because we are referring to the definition of artisanal coastal fishing in the European Union. Look, I'll explain. What happened was that there was a proposal from a representative of the Committee of the Regions that wanted to define artisanal coastal fishing as that carried out by vessels less than 12 meters in length. We here, in Galicia, have vessels that we consider to be artisanal coastal fishing because they have base port in the ports of Galicia, they work in inland waters, they work with selective arts and we always defend them as artisanal coastal fishing, but they are more than 12 meters long. And what we told you in that statement is that this is not the forum to define what is artisanal coastal fishing, that is defined in the regulation of the common fisheries policy, so it is only a matter of defining the objectives of the European Maritime Fisheries Fund. So if you want to reopen the debate on artisanal coastal fishing, let us hope that it will be discussed in the regulation which develops as the common fisheries policy will be. This is a clarification that you are doubting and I think I have answered it. And what if I'm not willing to assume -- that's what I'm saying to everyone, and I hope you don't feel bad about anyone -- is that there's such a dramatic aspect of the reality of fishing in Galicia today. You can't come here and say with such joy that you have to fish twice as much to earn the same, that's false of all falsehood. What's more, the data that's available to everyone on Pescagalicia.com's website, which is not data that I've invented or that I've got nobody typing there, are data provided by the lengths themselves, what they believe is that this past year, 2017, it's closed with an increase in downloads and an increase in billing. And what you see is that precisely shellfishing and artisanal coastal fishing, downloading less are getting more invoicing; that is, our fish is getting more and more valuable, because we always say that we have to work with quality, differentiate ourselves, and that's what gives value to our production. Mrs. Prado, I don't think I'm going to get into many of the things you said here, because they seem to me of such incoherence that it would certainly be to write a manual. You can't come here to say that artisanal fishing has not received funds. You can't come here to say that the shellfish didn't receive funds. You can't come here with these arguments, because you're from a marine port where we've gone far; where we've made expedition centers; where we've built ships for the different shipowners of artisanal fishing; where we've built bats; where we've built auxiliary boats of bats; where we've bought scales, scales, computer equipment to better equip our mariners; where we've paid them a temporary unemployment due to the situation with Martellia, in the Ulla Lombos, of more than two million euros, who charged the mariners who were affected by the closure of that production zone, and all that comes out of the European funds. And you can't come here to say that I'm funding thinkers and antibiotics for the big aquaculture companies. You guys have a multinational trauma, I've told them more than once. I don't know if you know that only in a year can you change hands over 500 bats, and I don't see any multinationals in the bats. The bats change hand among the bat holders themselves, I don't see any multinationals. I don't finance anybody's thoughts, nor do I fund antibiotics to anyone; we finance the lines that can be financed according to what the European Maritime Fisheries Fund has set up today. And I say that as this fund is in force, and as we are seeing the difficulties we have in actually being able to apply the aid for what they have been designed for in their day, because the administrative complication is very big, is precisely why we are presenting our proposal that it is a more flexible, more agile, more appropriate fund for each of the maritime basins that are part of the European Union, and that from the regions we can change between them the economic availability according to our needs. Mrs. Toja has a needle, I don't know, on the subject of security on board. He always accuses me of not knowing what operating program. No, don't laugh, Mrs. Toja, that the subject is quite serious and more complicated than all that. You say I lower the funds. Look, I can tell you that all those requests made that met the requirements, all of them, received the help. What we're talking about here is something else. We're talking about the need to finance the making of new ships that improve the safety and housing of the staff on board, because with the ships we have today it's hard to convince the Thursdays to board and have to share a cabin with 5 or 6 people. That's why we brought the head of the management of the European Maritime Fisheries Fund to Galicia, so that he would enter one of those ships and see that what we were asking for was not an increase in fishing capacity, but rather improvements in livingability on board the ships. But, nowadays, all our fleet that wants to take on navigational aid, for safety on board, has the right to such aid, and, in fact, every year there's money left because there's not enough requests to address what's set out in the rule. I repeat what I told them. I came here to take note of the work we have done in the name and representation of the 350 regions that are part of the Europe we are part of. Now comes the work of convincing, within the Galician Fisheries Council, that working group that defines what else we can ask of the European Maritime Fisheries Fund, and that will be the document I will bring to the Galician Parliament in order to try to make it the unanimous position of Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u153	Thank you very much, Counselor. Now we're starting a special round of clarifications. Mrs Prado Cores has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the BNG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u154	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Mrs Egerique, the truth is that you have almost convinced me that you are sisters of charity and that you are never here to call the camp. No, no, no... you don't know anything about calling the camp! [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know. I don't know why... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u155	Quiet. Quiet, let them speak to who is in use of the word. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! I would like to thank all the Members who have allowed us to speak to those who are in use of the floor, please. Continue, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u156	I don't know why they're so upset that they ask for explanations when there's something to explain, because Caesar, in addition to being honored, has to look like it. It's a little manual. Besides being honest, you have to look like it. So ask for an explanation that public funds are given the use they have to give them, and that it is clear and transparent that there is no use for their own benefit, because it seems to be here, in parliamentary headquarters, where that explanation has to be given. And it should be normal to do so, that for that we are public representatives and we must give those explanations; it should be normal. Mrs. Prado, you're running around the press as soon as there's the smallest as out of place, and then you're on as long as the rest of us ask for explanations, you should be quiet, Mrs. Prado! [[Murmurs.]] You're exactly the least likely to get excited about anything, it's the least indicated. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Indeed, I see that there is no desire to give explanations, Mrs. Quintana, and I am quite sorry, because you have a golden opportunity to explain the questions. You don't want to take advantage of it...? Yeah, who shuts up... actually. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I would say to the honourable Member of the People's Party that, of course, the figures go there! Fortunately, the People's Party governs, and so do the figures. Some figure of aging in the sector, leaving business, 1,500 people, nearly 500 boats, I won't give the figures in the Great Sun anymore. And, of course, you said, Mrs. Quintana, that quantitative data is not good, but qualitative data. Of course, the quantities don't, 1,500 people who have abandoned the activity and over 400 vessels are missing. Of course, the qualitatives aren't good, what happens is that you say again what more discharges and more billing. You know that the download/invoice ratio is nothing positive. He knows there's a lot more downloads for a small increase in billing. But you keep playing with the numbers! So, aging, abandonment of activity, migration, no generational relief, dismantling of the fleet, loss of employment... well, these are the data that the People's Party claims to say they are the figures. And then I have to admit that it still seems to me that they come here to say that of the 350 regions, Galicia is asking us to report. But it's normal, what other region of Europe has a weight on the topic of the sea like Galicia? What's normal is that Galicia is the one who makes that report! The normal thing is that Galicia is the one who handles fishing matters! Why does it surprise you what's normal? How much self-esteem and confidence do you need in the country? How much need of self-esteem for what's normal, and for Galicia to go normally leading these things, doesn't it seem extraordinary to you? How much self-esteem is needed to make it normal and not see it as extraordinary? [[Applause]] It seems to me very good that the resources and funds go to the transformation industry, of course! But for the extractive sector, for the shellfish and for the bass, too, in a balance relationship. Not everything here and the strawberries for the most employment sector in the sea sector. Not the frangles for one and the lion's head for another. That's what doesn't look good on the Galician Nationalist Block. And contributions, indeed, contributions, even though the report at its initial stage is made. We support the maintenance of the specific structural funds for fisheries, which I have told you earlier, Mrs Quintana, the FEMP funds, with a very clear shift in course — I have also told you earlier — a 180-degree shift. We can decide their end, that we can decide to use them, that they don't come specified so that, how and how...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u157	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u158	...to develop and modernize our fishing sector, to the seafood sector, to the bottom, to the generational relief, to modernise our fleet, so that the content of the funds is consistent with the importance of fishing, with socio-economic criteria and generation of employment. Because economic and social criteria are not what weighs on making decisions, but what weighs on it is political weight. And until now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u159	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u160	...—Finished, President—Galiza had no political power in making the decisions and it was the European Union, the Spanish State, who made those decisions. And, of course, Gallica didn't come out, much less, benefited from that division. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u161	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Mrs Toja Suárez has the floor by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u162	Thank you, President. I'm going to talk first about the discharges and billing. You said here today to increase the discharges, to increase the billing. We're going to get the data, advice data, data that's not false, it's not invented, it's Council data. For smaller arts, last year downloads increase by 6.70%; billing by 6.20%. In the case of a drag, the downloads increase by 5% and the billing decreases by 9%, the download increases, the billing decreases. In the case of the search... this data is from your advisor, I don't know how funny it is. [[Murmurs.]] In the case of the search, the downloads increase by 44% and the billing by 14%. In the case of the steering wheel, the downloads are reduced by 12% and the billing by 5%. In the case of the background length, the downloads increase by 2% and the billing decreases by 7%. I don't know where you get the data, but this data is from your advice. Therefore, the downloads are increased but the billing does not increase in the same proportion. Invoicing is the euro, people want to bring home the euro, not fish alone, wants to carry the euro. From the euro is what you eat. [[Applause]] So if you just increase the discharges but you don't increase the billing, what we're doing is giving people more work but not enough income to cover those new costs that are generated. Yes, that's right... so... [[Murmurs.]] [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u163	Silence, silence!, there's already a spokesperson from one group and the others have another spokesman to speak. Silence! Please listen to who is in the use of the word; if not, let them design others. Continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u164	All right. The most sold species... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u165	Mr. Trenor!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u166	The most sold species was the horse, or the painted garden, which has an average price of 0.36 cents, 36 cents of euro. That was the most sold species last year. What does this prove? That Galicia is debilitated in garden, jure and fish. And the fleets of the siege, the steering wheel and the minor arts cannot fish according to the state of their resources. That's what there is. You told us today about billing, you told us about discharges, but that's the situation. As far as budgets are concerned, it says that we have that heist, that heist with security. Well, yes, we have an issue with security precisely because over the centuries, there have been close to 100 maritime disasters. And unfortunately it's a matter of concern to us, which concerns us very much, yes. And here's the executions of program 723A. In yellow, what could be done; in green, what really did, 30%. The execution is 30% and there's health, there's security, there's climate change, there's training for minors as well as helping new fishermen and investments on board. And at the Fifth International Conference in Arvi, that there was nothing, one of the things that began to talk about was the need to make new ships, new ships and new boats. And for that they are very important those investments on board and that innovation and that efficiency. And in the budgets, look as if, between 2017 and 2018, these matches have been reduced, look as if looking. So you can discuss what you want, but the budgets are there, the executions are there, the billing data is there. On the other hand, regarding Brexit. We defend Brexit as an opportunity, we always defend it. And we remind you that it cannot be an obstacle to agreeing with European funds. And to give me time to say everything I have to say — with so many interruptions... — I'm going to ask you a question about the issue of European rural funds, which we talked about and which, by the way, you haven't answered anything. I imagine that, by strategy, you're the guard for later. What's wrong with a dog? You said what we said was false. What's wrong with a dog? What's wrong with a council certification, the Council of Orders, exactly where do you rule? What's wrong with that? In this DOG it is said that the deadline is September 15, 2017 to present the municipal licence. And in this Order Council certification, the license is dated March 28, 2018. What's wrong with that? Please explain what's wrong with that. You have to explain it, because you came here and told us of trust, so you have to explain it. And I also tell you that you should apologize for the gesture you did. I think it's an ordinary thing that doesn't belong to a counselor. [[Applause]] Yeah, yeah, I don't think she's a counselor. [[Strong murmurers.]] And if we go into Parliament's website, it makes it the home of the Greeks and the Greeks, of all the Greeks and the Greeks, and also of those who supported us and our political force. And when you do that, you're scorning the Greeks and the Greeks who trusted us. So, you shouldn't do that, you should apologize, you should apologize. [[Applause]] You know, in addition, it's not the first time you send me a message like this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u167	Thank you very much, Mrs. Toja. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs. Quinteiro Araújo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u168	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u169	Silence! Silence, there are a lot of opportunities for dialogue in this House! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence, please! that there is a spokesman who needs to begin his intervention. If the groups want to appoint other spokespersons, they can do it, so... silence. Start, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u170	Thank you, President. Well, as I said, the first thing we have to say — because often in this Parliament we see surrealistic things — is that the only group or group that is most devoted to calling the debates of this Parliament is the People's Party. Above all, with the subjects that you don't want to talk about and give any proposal, the only thing that makes you do is divert the subject. I think here the only thing that has been done was not to call, to ask for explanations... I only did it was to ask for explanations for the advisor to answer. [[Murmurs.]] He took me the explanation request — I don't have the timed — about 20 seconds. The spokeswoman of the People's Party, who said that we made lamentable speeches to the opposition groups, that we did not contribute anything, just as he devoted eight out of ten minutes to talking about the negative interventions of the opposition; that is, not a single proposal. It was you, the spokeswoman of the People's Party, who didn't make a single proposal, and yet it seemed very offensive to them to ask for explanations. That's quite normal, because explaining doesn't have to have any problems. And we don't understand that whenever there's this kind of appearance, the only thing that's done is to say how wonderful the Government is, all that's done well from the Government. And it really is very difficult to have some kind of debate. But then, yes, they just say the opposition is bad because it doesn't favor the debate and it's only about calling, something quite false. Then, one of the arguments that is repeatedly used, not only when we talk about this sector, but in general, when we talk about the situation in Galicia, is that we draw from the opposition an unreal panorama and a very black and catastrophic panorama. And we have to say it's not true. We, when we talk about the situation being dramatic, or it's bad, negative, that the trend is negative, it's because the data that they do, because it seems to us very worrying, as I said, that loss of people in the special regime of the sea, etc., and all this data. And then what we have to evaluate is why this situation is happening. To say that it's going to be better won't help us make the situation really better. So we don't understand why there's always such a lack of self-criticism. And you really have to evaluate the causes behind it. We agree that one of the fundamental problems is the failure of generational relief. That's one of the pending tasks that must be undertaken to improve the situation in the sector. Well, let's think about why many young people and girls can't work in this sector. We believe that self-criticism is necessary to carry out effective public policies. Then, on the subject of artisanal fishing, it is true that we are not worthy of the explanation he has given us. I'm going to literally read what he says, because the literal reading for us says something different to what he explained here. And it literally underlines the importance of clearly defining the elements that should be supported for a proper, axile background application. It is necessary to define generally the eligible lines and to fine-tune the elements that must be supported in the context of the basin and the region. In particular, the European Commission is asked to define or draw up a definition of "crafted coastal fishing" taking into account new criteria and in order to reflect the reality and diversity of the European Union's fleet. This does not open a debate, but we understand that it is only delegated to the Commission. And we understand... actually, then, it's not so much that we don't understand, but maybe we have a somewhat contradictory opinion. As I said in my first speech, for us this is a fundamental debate. I believe that there is agreement on this, that it is a fundamental debate, but we believe that from here on we have to have a clear, firm position and make sure that the sectors are, say, at first hand, drawn up in the debate and discussion on this definition. And I'm going back to the point that I think it's necessary to make an assessment of why we have such negative data in budgetary execution, because, as I say, it's not worth anything that we talk about funds in abstract when then, at the time of truth, we have this execution so low. Did you think or did you advance some kind of measure to really improve the execution of these funds? Because if we don't improve that execution, if we don't... we have a concrete proposal that I mentioned in my first intervention. We believe that regions have to have a fundamental weight in the redistribution of these funds, because if we don't, we don't think we're going to move forward. But, in short, I would say that what is needed is a model change and to understand that the debates must take place in the nearest area. And when we talk about consensus, dialogue, we have to put it into practice, we can't just do it and then listen. I understand that there is now a process — and he explained it — of dialogue. But we have to re-encide, as I said in my speech, that we would consider it optimal and better that dialogue actually began before moving this dictation. In fact, we seem a little disrespectful to this Parliament, because we believe that there are a lot of questions for this opinion...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u171	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u172	...that we should improve, as I mentioned, for example, the theme of the blue economy. And in part, this debate has been stolen. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u173	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quinteiro. You have the floor on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Teresa Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u174	Thank you, President. Mrs. Prado, you have very fine skin. You're also very offended when we asked you for explanations of when you were head general and you signed different orders and you had a management. You get very nervous and you have the very fine skin, when that is a genuine parliamentary political debate, a genuine parliamentary political debate. You recognized a small increase in billing, an achievement! Mrs. Quintana, keep working because it seems you've convinced something. Because I've been listening in Commission 8th that catastrophic speech that doesn't increase anything, that everything goes wrong, and today you just recognized a small increase in billing. And I have to tell you that it takes a very broad and intense political task for Galicia to be the head of the Committee of Regions between the thirty-fifty. You think it's coming to Europe, and in Europe they don't give anything. A very intense political task is needed, and therefore he acknowledges that this Board has worked a lot and there is Galicia to represent the Committee of the Regions. Mrs. Toja, what's wrong, what you've asked so much, what's false is your accusation, what's false is the Socialist Group. And what's an ordinary thing is to spend 15,000 euros on a night in a game. That's a true ordinary, a true ordinary. [[Applause]] For me that's a real ordinary. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Toja, you did not recognize any increase in billing, so I think you should review the data. I think I should listen more to Mrs. Quintana's speeches when she comes here, because she really talks about reliable facts and facts. Today Mrs. Prado has managed to recognize you. You also have a little way to do it. So counsellor, keep working on that line now that no one questions the background, because you've already questioned the background and, therefore, you're going to take steps, they're convinced that this work that's doing the Galician People's Party Board is being beneficial to the sector. So you said something that is very true, that is very true: that you learn from the Greeks. You have always been the voice of the fishing sector in Galicia, you have never imposed your criterion above the criteria of the sector. And you have to know that too, Members of the opposition, because it is true, and every day it is demonstrated. We therefore have full confidence in their management, and this People's Parliamentary Group will be to provide all the ideas and initiatives that are necessary for the distribution of this FEMP. You have our confidence and support, in the hope that the debates in this House, especially when you talk about fishing, especially when you talk about a future that can have a lot of benefits for Galicia in jobs, a lot of benefits in industry, a lot of benefits for the sea, for laughter, for the fish, for which you have delivered most of your working life, Mrs. Quintana. We therefore hope that the debates in this House will be more constructive, because the sector will surely appreciate it. The Parliamentary Group has its support, thank you for having the deference to come here today to explain to us what the government's road map is with regard to the FEMP. So keep working on that line because we think that's what brings benefits to the fishing industry in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u175	Thank you very much, Mrs. Egerique. He's got the doubling shift for Mrs. Sea Counsellor, Mrs. Quintana Carballo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u176	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Egerique, thank you again very much. I will count on the support and ideas of the People's Group to strengthen Galicia's position in the new European Maritime Fisheries Fund. Mrs. Prado, Mrs. Toja, self-esteem. That's a pretty word, isn't it? So self-esteem we have it very high, and since we got to the Government, there on April 20, 2009, all we did was, with that self-esteem, work to change the image they had of the Greek fishermen in Europe. And that's what we did. Of course, we have self-esteem, but it is not easy for 350 regions to agree that Galicia is the one that has to unite the interests and criteria of all sea basins to define what must be collected from the new European Maritime Fisheries Fund. And that can be achieved, of course, with self-esteem, but also with work and credibility. By convincing Europe that, when we go there, we go with data, we go with arguments, and that is what has changed their vision today in Europe of Galicia. Today the European Union's mid-points, DG MARE, say that to understand fishing must come to Galicia, and they come to Galicia, and learn from us here! [[Applause]] And that's self-esteem. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And, of course, I'm surprised when they come here and tell me that the discharges go up but that the billing goes up very little. Good. As Mrs. Egerique says, they already recognize something: it goes up. I'd like you to keep going up more! And on that line I'll keep working. And on that line I'm saying we need to further improve marketing, to be able to value the quality of our products. And I'm also working along with our shipowners and our shipowners, telling them we can't be selling a fish at 0.30 because it has an exquisite quality and we have to be able to sell it better. I'm not saying that we're already getting everything we had to do in the fishing in Galicia at 100 percent, I'm saying we're improving. Of course, you can come here today and tell me that the downloads go up and the billing goes up, but the billing goes up less than the downloads. But it's just that when I arrived in 2009, the only thing there was: down the downloads, down the sales, down the downloads and down the sales. And so it was the four consecutive years that you were ruling, that the only thing that happened to the marine Galician with the governments of the Socialist Party was: less fishing opportunities in Europe, less marketing opportunities, less help and less credibility in Europe. That's what you left us all through your legislation! [[Applause]] It's very easy to come here and tell me that all I'm doing is working for scraps. See, from 2005 to 2009, 538 ships were wrecked in Galicia. I didn't rule at that time, nor was the People's Party in the Government or in the institutions at that time. From 2009 to 2013 there were 248 ships. To me it's a shame for everyone who breaks up, I have to say it. And we're working. And I'm with Mrs. Quinteiro that one of the important things we have to do is get generational relief. But, as I said, in order to achieve generational relief, we have to be able to clear up the European Union the possibility of giving funds so that new ships can be built, because with the funds we have today, Mrs Toja, we cannot make new ships by financing them with European funds because it is prohibited by the European Union Regulation. So, what we're telling the European Union is to allow us to finance the purchase of new ships, the construction of new ships. Don't they increase fishing capacity? All right. But if they can improve their lives on board our sailors, to make this activity attractive. In the case of training money, Mrs Toja, you can review the budget; this year, it has increased by 2% and last year it has increased by 5%. Between 2017 and 2018, we have 7% more funding for training. The security measures you refer to, only those measures which are covered by the European Maritime Fisheries Fund can be financed by this line, not any measure that any shipowner wants to do. That's why I say everyone who can be financed and they've asked for it, they've taken care of it. And there's money left because there's no requests, because there's no more needs than those that are already funded. That's what I mean. What we're looking for in the new bottom is precisely that those things that want to incorporate our sector into our boats and that today cannot be financed, that can be financed into the new bottom. I hope I've explained enough. I hope to come in next few days here talking about the work being done in the working group of the plenary of the Galician Fisheries Council. I'll come here, bring the document, and I really hope to enrich it. I came here today to talk about fishing. I'm an advisor to the sea and I'm coming up with the subjects that have to do with my advice. With regard to what you've been accused here, it's the other board to which you have to explain, all the explanations will be given. And I just want to say one thing: as Mrs. Egerique well said, I've been looking at people for 30 years. I've had 30 years of respect and honorability, which I hope you have. I, Mrs. Toja, if I missed you in anything, I apologize. All I'm telling you is that the pride I have of the son I have, I wish you had half as much as you have! Sure! Because I can only feel proud of my son, he's a college boy, yes, but he's a working boy too. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u177	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Applause]] Let's move on to the next initiative. [[Applause]] G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada, on the action to be taken by the Government of Galicia in relation to the working conditions and functions of the forest and environmental agents of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u178	This motion was tabled by the Group of the European People's Party and by the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u179	To formulate the motion, Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u180	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. And good afternoon to the assistants who accompany us today in the full. The advisor has just left, and I'm more than sure — you can tell him — that Mrs. Toja is at least as satisfied with her children as she is. Same thing. [[Applause]] At least the same. [[Applause]] At least the same! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u181	Quiet. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Go on. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u182	Yeah, because it turns out... can I go on, president? [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u183	Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u184	Then...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u185	Silence! Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u186	After attending this morning's debate and the vote, of course, at which we applied for the cessation of the people's valet, and to attend a part of this afternoon's debate at the sea councillor's appearance, I would recommend that they go to the dictionaries, both of the Royal Galaga Academy and of the Royal Spanish Academy, to consult the term "nepotism". And that's what we're hearing here many times. It's incredible the capacity of self-competition they have in the People's Party in the face of these scandals, it's incredible! But let's get to the point. No, they're on Google, easily accessible. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u187	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u188	I don't know why I have to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u189	They don't dialogue. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Silence! [[Murmurs.]] Continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u190	In the full past, on June 20, we precisely interpelted—and came to the councillor of the Rural Middle—to know what the intentions of the Greek Government were in relation to the negotiations that were stagnated—and it seems that they are still—with the forest agents and with the environmental agents, who are well enrolled in the Middle Rural Council as well as in the Environmental Council. And I made this interpellation — as I say, the Middle Rural Counsellor — to know what the intentions of the Greek Government were in relation to a negotiation on the absolutely necessary improvement of the working conditions of the forest and environmental agents, since it is absolutely obsolete that agreement in 2005. Also to know what the intention was to address a new regulation of functions precisely from the new scale assigned to Group B since 2015, of the Public Employment Act of Galicia. And also to know the intentions of the Greek Government precisely in relation to all the processes of improvement of forest brigades and also in relation to a fundamental issue as we are concerned about, as could be the investigation of forest fires. We made this inquiry to the advisor precisely that June 20th, in which she herself published in the Official Journal of Galicia the Order in which it was established and the high-risk period of fires between June 1st and September 30th. And the Rural Media Advisor himself—and so immediately the council immediately published it also on his portal and published the bomb and plate these announced commitments to this interpellation—made a whole series of commitments in connection with this problem that is worrying over 500 self-employed public employees of forest agents and environmental agents scales. The advisor — if I am not mistaken — could say that she had basically five commitments. We can sum up in five of the commitments that the rural councillor presented here in this House, as stated in the Journal of Sessions, to the various political groups. First of all, we were told — I believe it is literal — that in the last week of June, the Education Council would present the necessary training offer for the 2018-2019 academic course to enable agents who need to acquire the qualifications needed to be enrolled in the new B group of the scale, which they could do, to overcome that 40% of the staff with the necessary qualifications. And he told us that this meant a salary increase of around 2,000 euros per agent and year at the base salary. According to the Rural Media Adviser's commitment: the increase in the target complement, in the period from 2018 to 2020, which would – also said literally – other than 2,000 euros per agent and year. So, I was talking about this increase going to amount to approximately EUR 4,000 agent/year in this negotiation. A third commitment, as I say, to his appearance, before the appeal we made to him, was, of course, to bring forward a new order of working conditions in substitution — as we said — of the obsolete order of the year 2005. And, of course, to address a new regulation to establish the functions of the new forest agent scale now attached to Group B. A fourth commitment of the Rural Media Adviser himself was to increase the productivity supplement in high-risk fires by 50% to the amount of EUR 448 per month. And a fifth commitment that clearly made in this rostrum was to make it easier for night shifts not to be present, but to be located. I then commented to the advisor that, being aware that it is a negotiation that will pilot and that is piloting the Business Council through the General Directorate of Public Service, a negotiation where it also has something to say to the Education Council itself, a negotiation where something also has to say -- or should say -- the Councillor and the Environmental Adviser, it would be difficult to initiate and implement these commitments. That's why the question we can ask today, when presenting this motion by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, is really whether at least the commitments that the Rural Councillor presented to this House on June 20 will be fulfilled. By the way, talking about commitments, what you can't come here to say... and especially what you can't tell forest and environmental agents that are measures to improve working conditions the incorporation of new 4x4 vehicles, the 20 tourism, that is, all the themes of the tablets, that were being incorporated without data and without cartography, when tourism and the vehicles themselves, first, are work tools; and secondly, they're not just for forest agents, as we know. We have precisely heard that in the course of the few meetings that have been held, if there has been any, that will explain to us — I suppose — by the People's Party, even the negotiation process is still stagnant because there are possible increases by the Galician Union of sixty hours — the notes we have — a year in the nighttimes without any kind of compensation or any kind of compensation in those cases where apart from removing days of free will, which obviously facilitate the possibilities of reconciliation of personal and work life, nor are compensations being established precisely for cases where the high risk of fires and intervention must be exempt from vacation periods. And that's why the forest agents, at the last meetings they've had, seem to be announcing possible measures of unemployment or possible measures of termination of services at the end of this month or early August, which must be of the utmost concern, of course, of the agents themselves, but above all, of the German Government itself. That is why, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and on the occasion of the 20th interlocution, we are bringing today — and we hope to count on the approval of the political groups in this Chamber — a motion summarized by nine points which basically try to improve the working conditions of forest and environmental agents and, on the other hand, to improve organisational and operationally what is the system for the operation of forest fire defence brigades. And in that sense, a first point of the motion is precisely to address this new scheme for the provision of services, schedules, holidays, licences, permits, with particular attention — we insist — to the reduction of working hours, to the same extent as the rest of the autonomic staff, to the compensations that proceed, so as to enable such reconciliation, the compensation of guards and the aid of cost per prolongation of the day. Secondly, it is a fundamental issue — as we also announced — the improvement of the specific complement in type-approval and reference to the corresponding scales of coastguard services. To regulate the second activity, occupational health, equal conciliation, uniformity, armaments and means of work are also another of the fundamental issues in this negotiation. Addressing a regulation of the specific general functions, as mentioned in the interpellation, of the new scale of Group B, both in forest and in fire matters, and in nature conservation, is another key element for Galician forest and environmental agents. To create the 30 promised squares of forest agents, to establish vertical and horizontal administrative career mechanisms, also with improvements to the target complement announced by the advisor himself, or, of course, as announced in various negotiations as well, to progressively increase the period of activity of fire brigades of a character made the necessary increase in the promised squares at negotiating tables, which could be around four hundred in the field of forest firefighters. These are the measures that we are presenting in this motion and which we would like to count on the support of all political groups so that not only in the face of this high-risk period of fires but also in the successive periods of fires and, above all, also in the need...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u191	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u192	...Finished, President—of the work on forestry and biodiversity, Galician forest care has some working conditions that enable it to carry out its functions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u193	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u194	...with the best of efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u195	Thank you, Mr. Díaz. Mr Rodríguez Estévez has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u196	Thank you very much, President. Welcome to the comrades who accompany us today. In the full past the Middle Rural Counselor lied, and lied when manipulating the data. I don't know if they lie to her and cheat on her, or if you're aware of what she said in this parliament. With the amounts and improvements she exposed here, I think tomorrow even agents and environmental agents would sign the deal, but sadly this is all smoke. The collective of forest and environmental agents qualifies as miserable the last proposed by the Union. Nothing to do with what the Madam Counsellor said here in connection with the negotiations of the new labour agreement, since the Government of Greece intends to work for six months in twelve-hour shifts, which would increase the annual agenda to more than two thousand hours. And everything without any time reduction or additional compensation, which they understand would harm life, family reconciliation. After years of waiting, in November 2017, negotiations were initiated with an interlocutor setting the date of December 1, 2017 as a limit to renew a working conditions agreement signed in 2004 and expired since 2007. The Director General of Public Service presented an unimaginable proposal that raises the annual agenda to more than two thousand hours. The Board comes up with a draft proposal — if you can call it that — without any time reduction or additional compensation with rest days. Here is the proposal: four sheets with five points. [[Mr. Rodríguez Estévez displays a document.]] The members of the 7th Commission already know how much agreement has been reached. This is the agreement of 12 April 2018 of the Technical Bureau of the Forest Agents Corps of the Madrid Community. [[Mr. Rodríguez Estévez displays a document that he views.]] It is an agreement with twenty-two pages, an agreement with objectives, an agreement with human resources, with material resources, with generation of jobs, with working days, with operational scale, with technical scale, with wages, with increased level and complement of destination, etc. This is a serious deal, not what you put forward. On May 24, the comrades and fellow environmental agents, in a demonstration called in Compostela by various organizations, visited more than 300 workers and workers, the collective said no to this proposal, asking for a few hours and a decent salary. Again, the Union is ignoring the demands of this collective. The environmental police are now out of vehicles; the fire managers in 99% of the forest fires still do not charge many of the guards of last year; the best researchers of our fires, of the causes, continue without an appropriate schedule to allow them to reconcile and their working and family life, and without the RPT squares that the president of the board promised here to create, and without the agents who pursue robbery have legal certainty. What is the objective reason why nearly the 600 environmental agents of the Union are not included in the natural environment emergency operations? What is the objective reason why training is almost null and material supplies bear witness? The Union continues to ignore the demands of this collective, allowing the days to pass, while we are, as Mr Villoslada said, in the high-risk campaign of forest fires, and the conflict continues unsolved. So from En Marea we have to ask what the government is planning to do with these and these agents. Workers and workers have warned on several occasions that the current labor agreement does not serve to shorten the big fires that are taking place in the country. That is why we are going to support this initiative. We have come up with a series of amendments that we think will contribute to the fact that it is a little more complete since the immediate implementation of the action plans against risk assessment, an institutional outreach campaign on the work of environmental agents and environmental agents and to make public the statistics on infringements and judicial dilemmas — by the way, documentation that we have already requested in January by Article 9 since the Parliamentary Group of En Marea and which has not yet been delivered to us today — the official profile on the networks, the citizen's telephone, technical training, etc. We're already in the high-risk campaign and they're still out of a labor agreement to put out the fires that come to us in addition to now of a new generation. We're in the risk campaign and we see how the current government acts with a decoupling of total functions and it's unable to draw up a new labor agreement that will enable it to shut down and direct the fires of a new generation. The future of our mountains today is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u197	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u198	...in the hands of these people, the officers of the board who defend and know the earth, the whole mountain, and those you deny them the means to be able to act at the source of the problem. They're not the problem of productive forest policy that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u199	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u200	...brings fires and ends with our land, they are the solution. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u201	Thank you very much. Mr Moreira Ferro has the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u202	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. The administration is already negotiating with trade union organizations as it always does. That is why, Mr Díaz, we tabled an amendment with which we want to make it clear that the negotiation process is open and in progress and that we must from Parliament contribute to reaching this agreement that we all hope for. But I think it's good to let Junta negotiate with trade union organizations. And be sure that all these points are being dealt with in that proposal. A proposal that, by the way, includes increments per pass from group C to group B or levels ups and downs. And this is important to point out that the current levels of agents are at number 14, the zonal agent is at level 16 and the territorial agent is at level 18, which will pass, respectively, to 18, 18 and 20. So, I think this combined with all the other concepts that are being negotiated -- for you to make an idea -- is an increase to agents, which are two thirds of staff, 25.11%, zone agents 21.42% and territorial agents 21.99%. So I think they're quite remarkable increases, and we hope there's an agreement with trade union organizations. But, in any case, I would like to comment on some aspects that have been commented on here by the Socialist Party, also by En Marea, although I am surprised that all these issues discussed here did not include them in the recommendations for the ruling of the Forestry Commission. I think, if they have so much interest, they could include at least some detail speaking of those claims that they now raise here, but they didn't speak when they could speak. A new regulation of the provision of services is currently being negotiated for agents replacing that order in 2005. And on the agenda, the draft of this order expressly includes that the annual agenda of the troops for this collective will be the same as that of the remaining staff members of the Galician Union. With regard to economic compensation, it provides for the payment of a productivity supplement for the turn intensity and 12-hour work during the high-risk period of forest fires, in addition to the payment of cost-to-maintenance aid during that period. On the other hand, the agreement compromises the negotiation of a principle of transition to a special second-activity administrative situation for staff who have reached the age of 60 and have a minimum period of activity on the scale. This proposal, which is really very similar to that which has already been put in place through the agreement with forest firefighters, depends on a rule of law establishing the above-mentioned special administrative situation, given the special condition of public servants of these collectives. As regards occupational safety, adaptation procedures are being put in place as a result of employee monitoring and health, as well as evaluation of work teams and other measures to improve working conditions and raise the level of protection and safety and health of the collective. As for equality and conciliation programmes, man! Mr. Díaz Villoslada, you know that Galicia is a national reference point in implementing equality and conciliation policies, from which both agents and the rest of the collectives in the fire service can benefit; of course, with the nuances and modulations that the consideration of public services, intervention, emergency assistance and civil protection confers on it their dedication to the extinction of forest fires. As for uniformity, it's in an advanced state of processing the uniformity order. As for the media, the councillor here has already spoken of the thirty-six totaled vehicles, of the fifty-six hundred tables, of the renting of thirty-eight 4x4 vehicles, of another twenty tourists, as well as of equipping and preventing individual protective equipment. You also speak in your weapons proposal. You know that there is no regulatory provision that allows the personnel of this collective to carry weapons. And finally, I would also like to comment that there are no troops on the new scale that justify the creation of posts for now group B in employment relationships, since there is no forecast to convene selective internal promotion access processes on the new scale given still the low percentage of forest and environmental agents who own the titration needed to access it. But when there is a sufficient percentage, that the councillor spoke of 40%, these squares — no doubt the least — would be called up for internal promotion. And finally, let me refer to En Marea's amendment, in which he talks about priority issues for En Marea, in which he says one of them is to urge the Board to reach an agreement with trade union organizations that collects the following aspects. One of them, a priority for En Marea, is to carry out an institutional outreach campaign on the work of environmental agents. Man, it's okay, but I don't know if it's a priority. But the other one, what En Marea is asking for, is to enable an official profile on social networks. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Priority. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We just need to know what social profile they prefer, if Facebook, if Instagram, if Snapchat, I don't know. But, man, I don't think this is a priority, I don't know what's going to improve the conditions of workers, of forest agents, of having a social profile.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u203	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u204	It would be good if they told us. So we make that amendment so that this agreement between the Union and the trade union organizations can be reached. And we hope they accept it. Otherwise, we are not going to vote in favour of that proposal, but we are going to expect that agreement to be reached. So, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Moreira. You have the floor by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rivas Cruz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon. They add up to 350 troops from the middle of the countryside and 150 from the middle of the environment, a total of 500 men and women in charge of the custody of this country's natural heritage, so to speak. Because if we do it for the kid, we'd say they're doing sectoral administrative police work and forest fire crimes and the environment, and they're certifying the different subsidy orders co-financed with the EAFRD. Environmental agents are responsible for monitoring and custody, proposed works and monitoring of the mountain use, proposal and control of mountain use, processing cutting permits, controlling pests and diseases, reporting on the legal and forest status of the mountains, making environmental education and awareness in schools and communities, assuming responsibility for the management of extinction throughout the fires, controlling people and the media, investigating fires, dealing with reports and reporting of fires...I know!, I know!... These people, these professionals, drag too patiently into their fair demands for years. This is an essential collective for the good health of the environment and the natural heritage of our country. Last May, at the end of the month, they came from throughout Galicia to Compostela to express their outrage for the ill-treatment and for none. They were noticed that they are mountain people, peaceful people, good people. They were tired and protested with a correction that drew attention. That is his virtue and, possibly, his weakness as well. They ask for a specific complement like the Coast Guard. Junta offers a rise in productivity that doesn't charge for retirement and that has a trap: four months of overcrowded guards of 12 hours, then there will be six possibly. By the way, they want to be able to retire for years of service as other agents of authority. Because when a fire occurs in the newspapers and in the media everyone goes out — Civil Protection, Firefighters, UME — but no one remembers who was in charge, and how many times more than 12 hours in tension with three stations at a time and several phones coordinating and directing a varicine and heterogeneous device! Well, it was a forest agent or an environmental agent. So citizenship in general doesn't know what it's doing. That's a good principle for them not to be right. They are not recognized as such professional diseases, subjected, as they are, to periods of continuous stress and anxiety that accumulate and acute in summer depending on the intensity of fires and the prolongation in time. Many of them are over 50 years old. Current troops are not enough to manage as much work as there is. 30 new promised squares have been pending for some time now. Because a few months ago, after last October's fires, the government remembered the security lines and that they needed to be managed. They're also given some sort of ordination of the territory, and, you know, of the mountain of this country. From the Bipartite—where the Bipartite goes!—, since those, since 2008, they are without new uniforms. They renewed their pants and two chickens, about 2012, and nothing more. In the time of the fires they throw many hours and almost always make teams. When you come out of a fire, you're usually left with support for your partner who comes in with confidence in the decisions to be made, contrasting. How many times is one in front of a fire and one in a flank! They are directors of extinction and responsible for all that happens in that fire: Civil Protection, municipal media, own media, air, Civil Guard and all the living bugs go through there, the highest responsibility for lives and farms. That's why they ask for a rise of levels according to the enormous responsibility they have on their backs. You know, gentlemen, how many times there are traumatic situations in the fire, burns a house, someone has an accident, or if they're out of control of the disaster? They don't have any kind of psychological help. He runs a saying that "the administration, kicked in the ass and into the mountain." You know, PP gentlemen, they care about the mountain, they love the mountain and, fortunately, they're mountain people. They're tired of stopping any of them. Since BNG we think it's hours for them to take this problem seriously and feel with them and negotiate seriously. They have an obligation to make up for so much silence, so many years of missing them. It's worth it for them to do it. There's an indefinite strike rustling in early August. They won't leave the mountain on fire, they won't, but certifications won't, and they're about 40 million euros of European grants that they're at risk. They don't threaten, they're just tired, and that's the danger, the discouragement. Nor does it have to say that since the BNG we are going to vote in favour of this initiative. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas. Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor of the motion's group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u208	Yes, thank you. Briefly, and by order of intervention, summarizing more of the possible amendments, I thank En Marea for the amendment submitted, because, without prejudice to doubt, Mr. Moreira, about which social networks are media today I think it cannot offer doubts. I mean, in that sense, we have to update technologically, and we can understand that perfectly. For our part, in that sense we will accept this amendment. I believe that it incorporates a list of proposals and measures that more fully set up the set of conditions and needs in the working conditions of the forest and environmental agent collective and, in that sense, we are going to incorporate them. We also appreciate the support of the Galician Nationalist Block. And with regard to the position and amendment of the People's Party, it is indeed an amendment, Mr. Moreira, to justify simply that this motion will be discarded. Because really what they're trying to do is to eliminate all the points of our motion, points that in 80% bring about precisely the commitments of the Rural Media Advisor himself, with which I would ask myself if the words of the Rural Media Adviser in this House were wet paper or if they were making an amendment to the whole of it, or by emitting the plan to the Rural Media Advisor, as we warned him it could happen to you. In any case, this is more of a role of the German Government itself than of the People's Group here in the House, which should worry a lot more, precisely, about the problem of all forest and environmental agents at a time like this, but I would say that at any time of the year, if they really care about the forest and are concerned about biodiversity in Galicia. Because yesterday, by taking a look at the proposal to state to me that the People's Group has presented precisely last Friday's conclusions on the Forest Policy Reform Commission, there are a number of conclusions or recommendations that the People's Group itself makes in different areas which may be in line with what we are asking for and which now, in a curious way — not to use other terms — seems to be ignored. Because I remind you that in your own text, when it comes to recommendations on firefighting services and their coordination with emergencies, they consider it necessary to study clearly the configuration of forest fire prevention and defence services from the point of view of the participation of public undertakings, they clearly stress that it is necessary to strengthen the mechanisms of professionalization of the service, the proper functioning of the single command — which both discuss when we criticized that it was not really being operational — or the role, which they also question, of municipal brigades and functions — finance and dependence, for example — of GHGs. They even request this measure — which will have to be discussed, in order to resolve definitively, in the Committee on Forestry Policy — the possibility of centralising all emergency care in 112, including forest fire derivatives. And, more importantly, they advocate that, in the creation of forest teams — literally they say, in the words of the People's Party — "the commission recommends that there be forest research teams in each of Galicia's forest districts, and the necessary collaboration and coordination of research brigades with the bodies and security forces and with the unit of the Autonomic Police." By the way, they also advocate that the Tetra system — you can remind the Rural Media advisor — guarantees the necessary interoperability between services, which the advisor had so clear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u209	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u210	Finally — and finally, President — if they do not want to follow a model anchored in the 1990s by forest agents and environmental fire brigades, they should close these agreements as soon as possible for lawyers who do not support them. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u211	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in matters of attention to people with acute myocardial infarction
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u212	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion, Mr. Torrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u213	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Again today what we have here is a non-old debate, because it actually has little time, but it does insist, because it's a question that socialists bring with quite assiduousness in one or another formulation. We think it's a really serious problem and we think it's necessary to deal with it more deeply than it's been dealing with in recent times. I would like to thank the presence here of many local representatives of neighboring federations who are attending this debate with the natural concern that they have to feel unprotected by a system that is not even able to answer questions and the doubts that any person would be asked in a normal way, and, in addition, we have seen in recent times as the system's own professionals if they are left with doubts of difficult answer. We said it's a question that is not being solved correctly and in a complete way. The truth is that you just have to review, if you could do it or if you had to do it right -- and if you don't, I invite you to do it -- the last interpellation from our group that I had the opportunity to make to the advisor on this issue, the interpellation that gives rise to this motion. The truth is, it's really fruitless, not only fruitless but really frustrating, to check the attitude you sometimes have on some issues. Surely from the People's Party it's considered a skill, but the truth is that, answering questions only when there's no replication shift, answering questions that border reality and responding based on statements or scientific societies that are taking one reason when one checks out reality, it's a way of checking out what some consider to be parliamentary skill is no more than a trick to get out of the way in a situation that is really worrisome. It seems sad to us to see how the People's Party is facing this issue, particularly the Government of the United Nations, and particularly the Health Adviser. And I will try to explain why and justify again — if it is necessary, and we consider that it is — our requests. Some of the issues that we bring here are based on the erratic planning of attention to cardiology and, in particular, on attention to acute myocardial infarctions in Galicia. There's a service, which is hemodynamics, that two hospitals in Galicia should have it, as all professionals say, that they are Ourense and Lugo, and that they don't have it. What is the explanation for not having that service 24 hours? So from now on, it was actually that the data said it wasn't necessary. There was a program that collected data — which was published once — and really felt that it was necessary to implement this system within 24 hours — as professionals said —. When there is data that showed that it was necessary to expand that service, as we all said less than the People's Party, one can have two options: to implement the service or to which the People's Party adopts, which is to make the data disappear. That's like the one who goes to the doctor and, when he tells him he's sick, he changes his doctor. The point is, there's a problem and you can try to hide it, but as much as they hide it doesn't disappear. And there's a problem that the data says, and they show that we need that attention 24 hours in Ourense and Lugo. Questions that no one can answer: First: when the service began until 22 o'clock, until 10 o'clock at night, who announced the counsellor here in this plenary the bomb and dish after saying very little time before it was necessary to implant? That one you announced for citizen pressure and political groups, when you started? Can you make sure that, when we did the interrogation of just three weeks ago, was it working already? Because the announcement was months ago. Can you guarantee that? I don't think so. The second question is: when will the service be implemented 24 hours? Because it's going to happen, because we all know what it's going to be. Because the professionals are already doing it. Because on the same day that we were here doing the interrogation, the cardiology professionals were in Lugo not sliding, not suggesting, but showing that everyone demands that this service is necessary and that the reality is that it's going to be done. Are you choosing or waiting for less pressure in Lugo to be able not to look like they do it because of citizen pressure? Or, what would be worse, are you waiting for municipal elections to implement it? Because it would be truly regrettable that we were dependent on the municipal elections to implement a service of so much need. Because the truth is, everyone knows what to do. Because, what's the explanation for the service that was before until 3 p.m. was extended until 10 p.m., but not from 10 p.m. to 8 p.m. What's the explanation? There is no reason to extend only one schedule. There is no reason to consider that it is more likely to treat infarctions in one hour than in another. It's more, as the scientific data itself say, the number of infarctions is given more in certain hours than they're currently not covered; probably, at first thing in the morning, even starting before 8:00 in the morning. So there's no real scientific explanation. Why in Lugo condemn having to be assisted by myocardial infarctions in Coruña for several hours of the day? Why does someone who lives in Fonsgrad, Guitiriz, Lugo or Monforte, the neighbors of that province, force them to leave for more than two hours to be cared for by something they can have at their hospital, which they deserve at their hospital? And most importantly, they have very clearly trained professionals, and very good professionals, to attend to them at their reference hospital, which is Lugo's. They've already caught a lot of attention in the comarcal hospitals, at least we'll take care of the most necessary issues. And this is necessary in Ourense and it's necessary in Lugo, a province that already has a lot of deficits because of the Galician Union's politics, far from meeting the needs and rather more focused on other issues in Lugo. In other times we'll probably have more opportunities to talk about it. Why is that need to care for only a part of the day? There's no justification. We also had some proposals on some other areas in this motion. At first, you know what we're asking about why Salné's patients move to Vigo and not Santiago, when Santiago is a closer place. The only explanation here is that 061 decides. And we asked the same question we asked three weeks ago in the inquiry and that no one was able — the counselor in that case — to answer. But where's the thirst? Galicia? Or do you have it in Bombay? Or who runs 061 lives in Kinshasa? Or is the responsibility of 061 to give an answer or an answer to someone who directs the health care of Mexico City? Does 061 have anything to do with the Health Council? We hope so! Don't they meet the 061 criteria at the Health Council? Can the Health Council say that this is 061 criteria, as if it had nothing?, as if 061 were an abstract entity that appears there? Oh, there's a 061! I'm the health counsellor and I don't paint anything here. There's a criterion that drives the Health Council that decides that these transports are going to Vigo and not to Santiago. Why do you prefer Vigo and not other hospitals? What's the special complaint for one hospital and not another? We wondered, and no one gives us an answer. The medical ambulance in Salnés. It's a matter of special sensitivity today. You would probably know when they were informed, and if you're not sure they have the ability to inform themselves soon. There was a tragic event yesterday, the health care was perfect, the professionals are magnificent, the result was fatal, but the officials were magnificent, the attention was unappealable. What we should ask after that and make an assessment, was it unappealable because all resources are always available to have a medical ambulance that handles certain types of cases? No, no, no, no. I'm sleepy because at that time there was a fortune not to have to devote resources that are for something else — like those that were in the CAP — and that could be transported into an unmedicalized ambulance at first, and that it could stop and pick them up. Still, nothing guarantees — and it is likely not — that the result was better. But the sad thing is that nothing guarantees that this result will not be worse on other occasions if we don't have a medical ambulance, which will also end up being imposed on Salne. But we hope they don't wait for the municipal elections. Don't play with these questions, please! Finally, since the little answer they gave me at the last interpelo gave me when there was no replication turn, I was very pleased that they had appealed to me for the views of the Spanish Society of Cardiology. The Spanish Society of Cardiology, which had the honour of having two recent Greek presidents, the last German president pointed out directly that 24 hour units are required in Lugo and Ourense, which is necessary the medical ambulance in Salnès. As the vice president of the Spanish Sociedade de Médicos de Emergencias e Urgencias, who is also the president of the delegation of Greece, who is also head of emergency at the Salnés Hospital, who says we need a medical ambulance. There are no professionals who subscribe that service is perfect, and there are professionals who say that service needs these improvements, which are essential. And what all the professionals say is that it'll end up coming sooner or later. Don't be a scarf, please. We're talking about very sensitive issues, where attention has to do with time, with urgency, with need. We have the best professionals, we give them the necessary resources. Because there's no possible explanation for having ourense without a 24-hour service, place without a 24-hour service, Salnés without a medical ambulance, and that the transportation of people with an infarction is done to a far-away hospital instead of another closer by some criterion that has to do with prioritising some hospitals than others. Please stop doing electoralism with this. You don't have to think they can come to April and announce these measures as if nothing happened, by the chance that in June or at the end of May there will be elections. Because it's no longer that anyone creates them, that they'd probably make the mistake of proving that they make decisions on criteria that are not health-careable, which many of us know, but which we hope, for the sake of the health system, that they don't prove it this way. For now, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u214	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u215	Good afternoon. Indeed, I agree with Mr Torrado that it is frustrating, because we all know — and also the Members of the People's Party, even though they will probably vote against — that time is an essential, decisive factor when it comes to treating a person with acute myocardial infarction. Which is decisive when you save your life at that time, is decisive when you practice your subsequent procedures and is also decisive when you recover later. And it's frustrating because every minute it takes to open an artery is a number of heart cells that won't recover. And we could continue to give data that shows that then, when they want an exercise that we can qualify in many ways, that it is not true that there is no difference between people who live on one side or another in our country when they are treated in the face of a vital emergency, and, in particular, in the face of an acute myocardial infarction, because they know it's not true. They know if there are differences, and they know that a person who lives in the boat of Valdeorras, or a person who lives in Ribeira de Piquin, or a person who lives in Gudina doesn't have the same opportunities as a person who lives here, in the center of Santiago or in the center of another city. It's obviously not like that. And the time in the attention of the person who suffers from acute myocardial infarction is decisive. I have to go back and remember here in this Parliament how the People's Party has distorted a popular legislative initiative that has been endorsed by more than 40,000 signatures; in which they demanded hemodynamics 24 hours at HULA; which accepted its treatment but then distorted it with an election promise made by Nuñez Feijóo, and which today, July 10, 2018, remains unfulfilled. They're going out of business today, it's no longer only in office hours, it's already extended until 10 o'clock at night, but those who are unfortunately infarction beyond 10 o'clock at 8 o'clock can't be cared for in the ULA. I insist, promise made by Feijóo several years ago; July 10, 2018 and is failing. We can continue with the CHUOU, from Ourense, where it is still pending the realization of a report that determines whether the standards... I think it is evidence that a person who infacts, as I said, at the ship of Valdeorras, who infests you in Verín, and moves to Ourense, let's not say if it's past 3:00 p.m. and has to move to Vigo, which is the reference hospital. Of course, opportunities won't look anything like those of a person with the same heart attack in the city of Vigo. And we can pass to Salnès, my reference district, where inexplicably the People's Party, denying any kind of evidence, denying the data, denying the ratios that say it's a territory where we have a reference hospital that does not have an ICU, where we do not have a medicalized ambulance, where every time an emergency occurs it jumps back to the alarm and response times are not the right ones. And where the lives of the neighbors and neighbors of the district of Salnés are evidently at risk. And we don't know the word and because it's because the People's Party wants to mistreat the neighbors and neighbors of the district of Salnes by not providing her with that medical ambulance. The same thing he did in Marin, who eliminated the ambulance for 12 hours and they only have it until 10 o'clock at night. Or we can talk about the Guard, a very remote area of Vigo too, where only it is until 12 o'clock at night. Of course, we are talking about needs throughout the country that show that this equality in attention is not so. That is why we are going to support this initiative of the Socialist Party, which in different respects we have brought here by the BNG, demanding the favourable position of this Parliament and which by the Government of the Union are meeting the legitimate demands of the neighbours and neighbours of these areas, which they demand is to have the attention they deserve and which we believe is more than just. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u216	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u217	Thank you, President. We will also, of course, support this initiative. The points have already been discussed, perhaps not together, but on several occasions, also in the Health Committee. There is a situation that is really paradoxical, in which we have to continue asking for information, in this case the data of Regalian, which is absurd. Because the same thing if you tell us that we don't provide data that endorses the requests we make from health services, and at the same time the official data with which the Health Council tells you is not available, nor is there a place where you can consult. This is quite common, it happens with vacation coverage, closed beds, waiting lists, and even with the attention data of the infarction. It is true that there is some evidence acknowledged by the Health Counsellor that it was precisely what motivated that several years later it had to give the opposition parties and the health and community groups that claimed precisely the 24-hour services in the attention not only of the hemodynamics, but above all of the hemodynamics, Lugo and Ourense; and that it motivated the processing of that ILP that in 2013 we dealt with in this Parliament, and of that I myself am the rapporteur. By that time, we were told that we were not right because there was no data to cast the need for these services to be open 24 hours, not even beyond a shift of 7 or 8 hours, a shift tomorrow, at the Lugo hospital, for example, and at the Ourense hospital as well. And it was quite absurd to understand that if all the scientific societies and the data on reports indicate that, at least time of reperfusion, fewer sequels and higher survival rates, it would be different in the case of Lugo or in the case of Ourense. They had to spend several years and they had to wait from 2015 to 2017 — which was when they opened, and the time that was tomorrow's shift open until 2018 — so that, in fact, there was once again a specific data from the hospital that moved that only one out of four people who were infarcting in Lugo could be re-founded and attended to in the HULA because obviously they had to stick to that schedule that we called here in the "office" debates. It's a totally absurd situation. We had to wait several years, when it was quite evident that the studies were the same for Lugo as for Ourense, for La Coruña or for Pontevedra. Or even more -- and how you just moved here -- in the farthest places and in which there is a difficulty of access and a greater delay in going to the centers, you could still understand, probably, and by statistics, that there would be a greater difficulty to get to that hospital where the reperfusion is going to be done. Here's a medical ambulance in Salnés. We totally agree, we've moved it on other occasions. Even in the budgetary debate we also request a mobile UVI in the case of Chantada and Monforte de Lemos, another in Carballo, another in Verín, in Cee and on the ship of Valdeorras, which are the places — it is in the amendments to this year's budgets — where the professionals transfer us precisely that they consider that there is more difficulty in moving and that they delay more, for the data they themselves have, in caring for, in addition to the assistance ambulances, which they would also need. This is in the case of mobile UVIs. And it's a reality that there's no fairness in the territory in accessing many services and many rights to health. And in the case of, of course, attention to infarction is a lack of critical equity; criticism in the sense of -- meaning that the delay in that attention really depends on the life of a person or on the consequences that this person may have. And, therefore, it seems quite logical that the same services have been claimed from the very beginning throughout the Greek territory. However, here we had to hear things of all kinds saying that there was no data. It seems now that if the Health Council is worthy of assuming that there is this data, and we also believe that they will end up serving. We were also justified in 2013 — I remind you — that there were not enough professionals. Well, in the end if there were them, magic that happens sometimes at the Health Council. We do not, of course, enter into that controversy, which will have to respond to the Galician Summit — and I will finish now — but I do move something: considering how land transport allocations manage 061, the air transport allocations, as are the workers, as are the people who belong to the call center, I am not surprised at anything that leaves everything at 061 and there is no criterion on the part of the Council. This is a "chiste" -- among other things, we're talking about a serious topic -- because of course we think that the Health Council has to have some sort of criterion when carrying out the drifts even if they move to 061, or even if it's because of time or distance, but some will, or we want to think about it. So, understanding these circumstances and that it has already been moved on other occasions, we will support the GNP.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u218	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u219	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Of course, Mr. Torrado, it is very surprising that you are coming to this Parliament to be home to one of the jewels of the Welsh health crown, which is the attention to myocardial infarction. And he's also talking about "heavy planning." The Greek Myocardial Infarction Care Program was an example for all the autonomous communities of the state, and was praised by societies and professionals of cardiology throughout Spain. And this program was launched in May 2005 — by ruling the People's Party, which you doubted the other day — in May 2005 was ruling the People's Party in Galicia. And Mr. Counsellor informs you, in the interpellation of the whole of what you were talking about before, of the situation of attention to myocardial infarction in different autonomous communities always with data from the Spanish Society of Cardiology. I know you don't like the data very much, but, well, we'll have to talk about them. Galicia was the third community, and the first non-uniprovincial one, in implementing the network care system to myocardial infarction within 24 hours. In 2016 there were still three autonomous communities that did not have it, which did not have this network, which were Andalusia, Canary Islands and Extremadura. Almost none of the three governed by the People's Party. She also reminded him of the mortality figures at thirty days, at the infarctions of the year 2014, adjusted by age and sex. And Galicia was also the third best territory according to those data from 2014, after Catalonia and Murcia. At that time, mortality in Andalusia was 10.1%, compared to 4.2% of Galicia — in 2014. Subsequently, on the basis of this Parliament, the creation of the Greek register, of Regaliam, was approved as a tool to assess the situation of the treatment of this disease in Galicia, its results and decision-making on treatment units based on the results. And that assessment confirms that in Galicia 96.5% of people suffering from myocardial infarction survive this. That is, the average mortality figure is 30 days to 3.5%, being in each and every one of the areas of Greek health less than 5%, considered the best by the experts. In short, attention to acute myocardial infarction in Galicia is excellent, and decisions on changes in protocols or hemodynamic units are taken according to the results of Regaliam. It is clear, Mrs. Prado, that it is not the same infarction in the boat as in Ourense; in Burela as in Lugo; or in Cee as in the Coruña. I think that we all have absolutely clear. But from these realities you can do all the demagogy you want. Today, Mr. Torrado, you spoke a lot more about Lugo—I suppose that in attention to the people who are in the gallery, to whom I greet from here—but the other day you spoke a lot more about your book, you spoke a lot more about the topic of Salnès. And with regard to the hemodynamic services of Lugo and Ourense, the Lugo has extended its hours for 14 hours, and the one of Ourense is scheduled. And they'll do up to 24 hours at the time that Regaliam's data and experts indicate it. By the way, these hemodynamic units were created by governments of the People's Party, and in the Bipartite Lugo Hospital project they didn't even appear as such. Today's news is told by the Socialist Party of Lugo that there is more mortality in Lugo. These past few days they talked about giving legal assistance to families in myocardial infarction, and they quote a number of mortality figures in areas, but they forget one: that in that same painting Ourense has a mortality of 0%, which particularly surprises me very much, makes me incredible. Ourense, 8 hours old, has a mortality rate of 0%. Ask Mr. Torrado for a medical ambulance for Salnés when he knows and knows that there would be Greek territories that, if he put himself in an ambulance, probably by dispersion and distance would have much more indication than Salnés. And he also knows that land health transport in Galicia works online and is coordinated through the 061 Foundation, which makes care decisions based on targeted needs, not by comarcas whims. And neither did the Bipartite government at any time put up any new medicalized ambulance in the years of government, but that's also forgotten. And, on the subject of the displacements of people affected by infarctions, they are spread according to the place of care and the care variables that occur in each situation. For example, what would a sick person do in Guitiriz, go to the Coruña or go to Lugo? I don't think we have to limit ourselves to geographic areas or provinces. Even the heads of service disagree. The chief of service of Vigo and the chief of service of Santiago do not agree on this subject, and even -- said the counselor here the other day -- the Socialist Group of the Vigo Council introduced a motion asking that all the sick in the province of Pontevedra shifted to Vigo and not to Santiago. We're talking about medical ambulances. Here Mr. Torrado the other day made floral games to associate 600,000 Euros with spending on priests. In the amendments of the Socialist Group, 4 million were requested for advanced life support ambulances, there was no mention of how many or where staff were paid. But in Marea, for example, he put 3.5 million for each medicalized ambulance; and the Nationalist Block Galego, 700,000 for advanced support and 640,000 for basic support, which seems absolutely incongruent. Request full log data. We know that, on the subject of data protection, it can't be done. I'm surprised, but I'm also surprised that we can't call the sick at the door as if we've done all our lives -- because it's also forbidden by the Data Protection Act -- and you have to take out a ticket with a number. Of course, we know that Mr. Torrado is guilty of all the good things that have happened in the Welsh health in the last two years, both the increase in hemodynamics, as well as in the OPE, as in hospitals, as in the health centers... Mr. Torrado, we really have to thank him for all the things he's doing. If you, Mr. Torrado, want to point out so much of Salnes's ambulance on the day you're getting data from Regaliam, I don't care the least. But don't doubt that, like the rest of your requests, this is going to be done for data and not for whims, as I told you before. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Núñez Centeno. For the motion's own group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u221	Thank you, Mr. President. Thanks to the support of En Marea and the Galego Nationalist Block, which we knew because they usually have shared positions on this issue, the fact is that I am not surprised at the speech of the spokesperson of the People's Party, especially knowing the counsellor's intervention. Because it's a habit to replicate the adviceer's interventions almost read. I was reading the interrogation three weeks ago and the truth is, it was almost literal. They might even have some novelty, a little to make floral games, as they say they're doing here. In case there's any question I can contribute to, I don't care about this debate. I mean, you can attack me. I'm sorry to have that protagonist, but I don't care about this debate. I'm worried about you planning money and cars. And we're being pushed by people, it's a difference, it's a difference. [[Applause]] I have nothing to do with the Council's decisions, I don't even think it would do it particularly well. I don't know, I don't think... But, look, to know if it's done well, because you're very appealing to professionals, the former president of the Spanish Society of Cardiology, the president of Semis Galicia and heads of Galician cardiology -- by the way, when they say that they think otherwise and others think differently, one thing and the other views differently -- they're all told that they're doing it wrong, that everything that's doing well is okay, but the things they're not doing well are very good. Or is there nothing better? Is there anything better? Is everything perfect? It will then be that everything is so perfect and that all the professionals are saying is because they have no idea. Because maybe the professionals don't know anything and have no idea. The citizens are worried, the professionals are complaining, the political parties we ask, we make proposals, and the Union is hiding. And this is the situation we have. Now you accuse me of sending more than one county. I, in truth, as the counselor has already made that appeal, have reviewed it. And the truth is, the hospital I quoted most was Vigo — in the previous interpellation. But it doesn't matter, because the data doesn't fit the time of truth. Go those who have, yes, those who have. Look, they're worth so much of what they have, and to us they seem so interesting about the data, that we constantly ask for data. You know the problem? That the data you say can't be given for data protection you quoted them in this House and we don't have them. You quoted us in this House. The question is, if that data cannot exist for data protection, what did you do by quoting that data?, what did you do? [[Applause]] Because what we're saying is that we don't want a DNI and a name, we want statistics. By the way, the ones you mentioned. Or do you have data that can't be given? Or does the People's Party have data that is not leaked anywhere else? Or does the People's Party make decisions with data that it doesn't teach? Or do the data that the People's Party has show that 24 hours will be deployed in Lugo, Ourense, that the medical ambulance will be implanted and that transport will be modified? He doesn't show me that cut, because that cut is after his intervention. By the way, right after the advisor's announcement. By the way, the service you announced has not yet been implemented. That data you have is what we ask for. And if not, it's very easy, Mr. Núñez Centeno. You ask for the separation of points and vote in favour of the granting of the data. It's very easy: they vote in favour of data granting, there's no problem. And so we'll all have data. Because, if not, what they're doing here is justifying that they don't do anything because I don't know how much and the socialists don't know what... There's no need to justify attacking anyone, there's no one. Implant the system. It's what professionals are asking for, it's the need that scientific societies are demanding...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u222	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u223	...is the question we need. They implement the service, because they'll end up doing it. The truth is, you've actually done floral games, you've done them so you can end up justifying here at some point that now, miraculously, data says you have to deploy the system 24 hours.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u224	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u225	Do you know when they're gonna do it? Right before the municipal elections.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u226	Thank you, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u227	And I'll be here to tell them that that's not decent.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u228	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u229	And even if it's not to listen to me, I've been working on it for once. And vote in favour, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u230	Your time is up. Thank you, Mr. Torrado. G.P. motion. of In Marea, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the provision of maintenance services at the new hospital in Vigo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u231	This motion was tabled with an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u232	To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u233	Thank you, President. It starts to be a little ridiculous to hear in this Parliament that statistics cannot be given because they have confidentiality. I don't know what people doing clinical studies are going to do. They'll never be able to publish. It's terrible! Anyway... We bring this motion in substance to the interpellation that we have presented in the past full. And unfortunately, it's necessary not only because it touches, because we've had an interpellation, of course, but because this is the situation, and the problem of this mess of dirty clothing is going beyond two months. It's still unsolved by the Health Council. There is still no positive, positive response on the table by the Council to reach an agreement or for the purpose of the dialogue. And there have been all these months — as their lords know — strike, protests and concentrations. There was a strike in the June weeks, which was all a success within the staff of the nursing assistants, weekly concentrations that continue today every Tuesday — this very morning the comrades were once again concentrating and claiming their rights — and closing. And the compañeras as they haven't lost the strike yet. Neither do we, and we understand that the rest of the opposition groups are the same. And we want to complain today and propose in this motion that if we take a solution, especially by listening to what the health counsellor had to say in the past full of that question I'm going to refer to. In the full past I have indeed been quite powerful and I have touched on the legal aspects in which from En Marea we believe that it is not right for the Council of Galicia and that they bring themselves to justify that these professionals are obliged to transport — of dirty clothing, in this case — to what in theory we believe that, being health professionals, they should not be obliged. The non-optional Staff Regulations of the year 1973 are normally used. But we have already indicated that it is repealed, since the Statute of the 2003 Staff Regulations, in a derogation provision. It is true that the tasks contained are transferred provisionally, but one cannot maintain tasks, in our understanding, above all — it would be a legal disquisition but it is relevant — when in 1995 Royal Decree 546/1995 of 7 April established the title of nurse care technician and the corresponding minimum teachings, and regulated which were those professional competences. I have already made reference in the past full to this particular and to this relationship of competences that come within that royal decree. But since it is not a legal debate — because the Health Counsellor himself moved in the answer to the inquiry that understood that the least acceptable was the legal process and that they had to solve this problem otherwise — we brought this situation back here. We understand it's relevant... there's a lot of noise all the time. [[Murmurs.]] First of all, we understand that it is relevant to withdraw these files open to the comrades, because we have already moved at their moment that was simply done to strengthen health professionals to prevent them from exercising their legitimate right to strike. We have already moved here the insults they had received and the attempt to confront the different professionals, both among the public and with the comrades and colleagues of the private contracts. And, without going any further, we've already moved here that trial which, precisely, won the cleaning companions—which also came to the collation precisely because of their situation, in which the dealership doesn't want to put more professionals—that they already had tasks that they didn't perform according to the demands of recruitment. This situation with the professionals motivates us to ask — as we have done in committee — that, as a gesture of goodwill — which has already been done before — it begins to negotiate and withdraw. And, of course, the second point we're asking is that they negotiate with the Personnel Board these demands, which is really like one... it's like a minimum request. [[Murmurs.]] I mean, to ask that you feel like you're negotiating and the request for information, that we're already getting to ask for really scarce or minimal things. Because what you can't bear is that we've reached two months of conflict and there's no agency and the Health Council offer when you sit back or -- say -- to recognize the work these nursing assistants do. And that the reports of the Joint Follow-up Commission on the ordinary execution of service delivery by the concessionaire of the new Vigo hospital are sent within a period of not more than one month. We have talked about it here and we have also spoken about it in committee: in the particular requests of this concession that define the very relationship between the Administration and the concessionaire of the new Vigo hospital, a number of control bodies are established and, among them, the Joint Monitoring Committee. We have already moved that the problem here was a health model problem, in which there is a concessionaire who has a million benefit — which has already been declared and which has been publicly manifested in the media — while public services are deteriorating. And in the face of the slightest conflict — as happened here — instead of transferring to the dealership the responsibility to care for non-health services, because the Galician Health Service opts, however, to hide the ears — colloquially moved — and assume or transfer that responsibility to health professionals, to public professionals. So it's a model that we consider privatising and that, in our understanding, it has no control, we've already moved it here. Actually, what do they say? The pleas say that a joint follow-up commission in which the Administration and the concessionaire are represented must be constituted, for that reason, which met on a regular basis throughout the period of validity of the concession contract, which had proposals for resolution between the conflicts between the different parties, which monitored the ordinary execution of the services provided by the concessionaire, etc. Moreover, the pleas say that, without prejudice to the functions carried out by the Joint Follow-up Commission, the contracting body would appoint a person responsible for the pursuit of the holding, who would have to inform the Administration of the incidences that occur in the development of the provision of clinical services by the concessionaire by making the relevant reports, etc. Everything comes in our prayers. In the past interpellation, we asked the Health Counsellor what was the role of that person representing the Administration, what was the role of the person representing the dealership, what were those reports. And yet, as always, every time information is requested, we get the silence by answer, a series of conjectures and assertions but absolutely no data, no information. And I think — I don't know whether it was the same as in the previous motion — that they might even ask for a point vote. Because here what's requested is reports that should now be public. We are, in fact, a bit tired of requesting information orally or in writing, and I don't know whether to put up a sign or make a demonstration — which I am sure can raise comments by the majority group. But the way we do it doesn't provide the data requested by the opposition. We're already reaching a point where it's very difficult to do the job. The reality is that we understand that these attributes are not the attributes of nursing assistants, we have argued it from a health point of view, we have argued it from a legal point of view. But I'm going to hold on to what the health adviser moved in the past full, in which he said that everything could be negotiated and that he had to sit down and talk. However, for three weeks now, there has not really been a negotiation so that the partners do not have to take over a greater burden of work — namely redundancy —. What's the big deal? We say here: the weight of what is moving, that the partners have to do other very relevant jobs, obviously — known to all of them — including the care of patients of all kinds of services and many more, and that they cannot handle an increase in workload that comes on a ratio of professionals who have already been denounced by the same companions. There are insufficient staff, and most importantly when the service structure has been changed since the opening of the new hospital and the merging of several of the services that used to be in two different centers. That reality makes it necessary that they would feel like negotiating. It's not worth sending the workers away to try to dissuade them, it's not worth insulting the workers and it's not worth clearing up the problem as they have previously exposed the problem in the case of cleaning. Because I repeat that a year and a half ago the sentence that gave the cleaning workers the reason they didn't have to do that job, they already knew about this circumstance. That is also one of the reasons why we are asking for this report from the Joint Follow-up Committee, because we then do not know how to serve those organs stipulated in the recruitment requirements and, of course, because the Health Council and the Public Service continually pray to absolutely everything that indicates the private dealership. I think it's a minimum request. Even today I've talked to my comrades again, they're going to follow the protests hard, they think they're right and, of course, they can't be treated in this way by health professionals. We ask you, please, to hear yourself negotiating, to remove these files and to transfer the information to what you have done, what you have not done and what you can do by the Council.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u234	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u235	Thank you again, President. Well, from our group we're going to support the initiative. From our perspective, this is a problem essentially derived from the management model. There's a pretty obvious question, and it's that public models and private models have different criteria, so they have different priorities. It's legitimate, but there are models that cannot be used in one case or another. They can be used, but, of course, they have neither the same efficiency nor the same efficiency; nor are they, from our point of view, as valid, not even the mixed models like this one at Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital, the public-private model, which should not be used in this case for this type of service. Of course, the application of this model for the construction of a hospital for the health service is invalid and demonstrates that it has several serious problems like this, which really affects the quality of care and also the rights of workers. Introduction of factors coming from the private model is not acceptable in the public system. We should not work in the health sector with the criteria of benefit, we should not work with the criteria of the labour operator model, we should not ultimately allow or accept the entry of the private business into purely assistance matters. And, therefore, if we allow it, we're opening the door to such issues as this. So we defend public, universal, free and quality health. I want to remember that sometimes there are issues that seemed very consolidated and have to come up with governments changing problems or positions that others have changed. In fact, from our point of view, what this proves is that Sergas grants part of the services, allows the private service to enter into public health. And cases like this allow you to wash your hands, leave the problem in the hands of the dealership, in the hands of a labor problem, as if Sergas had not affected in any way that there are problems with people who have direct contact with the service and who directly impact on the quality of the system. So what we're asking ourselves is whether in this case you don't think this is a problem that affects you clearly; and, therefore, if you consider it so, you should come in to help solve it. And we deserve another thought, especially in the debate on the model of the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital. Where does this problem exist in another German hospital? Is there a problem with this feature in which another German hospital exists? Or where are there such tense problems between the dealership and the public system? What other German hospital? None! Why is it curious that there are problems with the concessionaires — with the concessionaires — and with quality care at Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital? Is it because there's a dealership who has a particularly high weight at the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital that doesn't have any other hospitals? Does it have to see something that exists at least a weight equality between the private sector and the public in the management of the Cunqueiro Álvaro? Will it therefore be further evidence — even though it is systematically repeated that it is not true — that the Cunqueiro Alvaro is subject to decisions of a private company? For us it is evidence that yes, although at the end of everything, you already know, at the end of the film, it will always be the fault of Tourinño or Zapatero, that everything can be, there is no problem, or even now -- even though they haven't started -- of the new Health Minister, who will also surely bear their guilt at some point in many things. That'll be all, but the curious question is that there's no such problem anywhere else and if there's it in the Cunqueiro Tree. The truth is that for us it shows a lot of things, and that's why we're going to support this initiative, because it shows a problem that has to do with the neglect that Sergas of the system itself gives them space to solve the problems about the staff to the concessionaires. Because right now those who run Sergas actually have envy of the private model system. They would really want to be able to exploit professionals too, to be able to apply those models that in the public system they can't, look they're trying! They're jealous of being able to handle this as if it were a private hospital, and if they could, they would. So what we are debating is actually what kind of model we want for our system. That is what we are discussing in other proposals, and today we are going to support it and amend it. The proposal has probably come to realize that it was a minimum and a small amendment about, as a report is being sent, at least saying that we are being referred to parliamentary groups. It would really be a matter — I'm going to be allowed to play — there's no need to amend because it would be over-perceived around the world. But in a place where we have to demand that information be sent and never approved, we will allow ourselves to be amended to say that we are being passed on to parliamentary groups. Because it would be the opportunity for the People's Party to approve some information grant, but to say they don't transfer it because in the resolution proposal it's not the one to give it to. So to avoid those problems. You see, data and information, that's not too much. Because they tell us we work without data, at least to see if they're able to vote in favour of giving us some. That data they have and they don't share with others, that data must be data protection. Because data protection for PP is that data is for me but not for others; that's the data protection law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u236	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u237	It's a way of understanding it, but it's not really the legitimate way of understanding it. So, to see if they're able to share the data, and among all, with the same data, we'll do our analysis. That'd be a good way to do it, so we asked for that information. You know, in order to prevent us from remembering that between 2005 and 2009, where some good measures are cited, it turns out that you haven't ruled anyone when they're good measures. When someone thinks they're bad, he certainly ruled someone who was never the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u238	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u239	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u240	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u241	With the privatization of the new Vigo hospital, the People's Party's decision to build this hospital with the public-private collaboration — called the euphemistically — not only turned the concessionaire into the head of the construction project, but what it did was to give it the exploitation and management of many of the services of this new hospital; in fact, of all less, theoretically, the white gown, which in part... well, in another moment we'll talk about that question. The reality is that he turned the concessionaire into the owner of the hospital for the 20 years of the concession; and he converted to this concessionaire in which he makes the decisions. Sergas has left in the hands of this company the management of all non-sanitary services, without establishing absolutely no control or guarantee mechanism of how those services are to be provided. And he did it despite hiring a company and a lady to whom he paid a large amount for -- theoretically -- to ensure the interests of Sergas in that agreement. It seems that this lady in charge has recovered, but she has not seen for Sergas' interests; in fact, she has not established any mechanism that would allow Sergas, in the face of such a situation as she is currently living with the conflict between the nursing assistants — the TCAE — and the concessionary company, to put some kind of condition on the concessionaire company. Within the services to be provided by the concessionaire are the cleaning and laundry services, and everything indicates that the company intends to carry them out without having enough staff to carry them out. In this way, the cleaning staff is subcontracted by the dealership—because what the dealership does soon is to subcontract; that is, we know what the modus operandi is—and the undercontracted company had been reporting for more than a year and a half, that it didn't have enough staff to carry out the job. And he also did functions that weren't on the terms of this subcontract. And after trying to negotiate with the concessionary company and that Sergas's Power is looking elsewhere, he did like he had no kind of question to look at, what the cleaning staff did was denounce the situation, and he has a statement that he says he's not actually in his contract. Today's management, knowing the problem, preferred to look elsewhere for more than a year, and decides from day to day that these functions take on the auxiliaries, the TCAE, already very overburdened with functions, already performing many tasks. And how does he do it? Well, as he almost always does the questions, cowardly, day by day, telling them to assume these functions without more, without more dialogue and without more information than the policy of "order and command" on those already overburdened professionals, who have been assuming functions already with a lot of work on the functions they've already been performing. From there I'm harassed, watched, listed of professionals who didn't carry out orders, sanctions, file openings... well, instead of looking after their interests and defending their professionals, what Sergas does, what he does today's Power, is harassed and brought down by his professionals. I mean, the modus operandi that we're used to seeing. In the face of this situation, what we demand from BNG to Sergas is that they stop demanding that these tasks be carried out by professionals, assistants. That he demands the company to provide more staff and to carry them out. That he's rectified, that he's not protecting the concessionary company and that he's going to defend the staff. That it is good that priority is the business and profit of the company and that it is time for the People's Party and the Union to abandon submission to the concessionaire and start defending the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks and the interests of Sergas staff. We will support this initiative presented today by En Marea. We have brought similar initiatives here to Parliament. It is clear that this issue stems from the privatization of the new hospital in Vigo. And, of course, the employment policy that he carries with Sergas staff seems to us to be unreceivable, that he has to rectify it. A staff who's been showing up for weeks, who's been on a strike call for several days, and who, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u242	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u243	...if something has been demonstrated, it is already a lot of patience, it has shown a delivery to its work very above in many cases of what would be exactible, and we believe that, in response to that delivery, they don't deserve...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u244	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u245	...this behavior by the Vigo Power today or Sergas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u246	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u247	What we ask of you — finished, president —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u248	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u249	...is that, in view of that responsibility on the part of the TCAE, they deserve a response from Sergas, of course, to negotiate and dialogue, not order and command. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u250	Thank you. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. García Míguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u251	Good afternoon. Is it true that the greatest concern for In Marea and for the Galego Nationalist Block, with regard to the health area, are the dirty towels, the collection of dirty clothes, at an instant, in a timely situation? I want to tell you, after four times in this Parliament, that we are talking about something like this, ladies and gentlemen, that this makes us anxious to go to Galicia, in the matter of health, in the right direction. Look, you've stayed in Soviet communism and all of this is great, I tell you from your heart. Let's see where we're going. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, we have exactly 38,000 people currently working in the Galician Health Service. There are 263 skilled surgeons working today in Galicia. From 2008 to 2017, the budget of the Galician Board has increased to more than EUR 252 million; and we have the largest budget of Galician history in the Health Council, with EUR 3.800 million. 205,000 surgical interventions are performed, and more than 74,000 major outpatient surgery interventions are carried out. In addition, there is 40,7 % budget for fully shielded health care for the Galician health area. In addition, 20 new infrastructures are created, 17 of them are created again and 3 of them are expanded or improved. And you come here to speak for the fourth time of this nobility, of dirty clothes! All right. We have such progress in Galicia that we are a national reference center for the treatment of cancer and heart, as Mr Núñez Centeno said earlier. The radiotherapy oncology unit is a reference unit throughout Spain for the treatment of brain tumors in children and children. And there is a pioneering procedure in the world in the treatment of lung cancer with the respiratory arrest of patients themselves. In addition to the annual scientific memory of collaboration between Sergas and the university, there are very important advances in rare diseases of genetic origin, immunology, microbiology, rheumatology, microsurgery and gene medicine. We're talking about improving scientific quality, increasing the number of experienced researchers, international collaboration projects, improving technology transfer processes, creating spin-offs and conducting different clinical trials. In the previous plenary session, the councillor, in his inquiry, said that the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital is one of the best hospitals in Galicia, one of the 30 best hospitals in Spain and one of the best hospitals in Europe. As I told you in the previous commission — because we've already talked about this — the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital was made thanks to public-private collaboration, fulfilling the State Public Sector Contracts Act; by the way, a socialist law that supported you in Congress of Deputies, the United Left and the Nationalist Block of Wales. Health care in Galicia is a hundred percent public, universal and free. And you were talking, Mrs. Solla, about the success of the strike. I think strikes are never a success, but they show failures. The transfer of dirty clothes, as you know, is within the Staff of Workers, Assistants. And so they ratify the different judgments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u252	Quiet, please. Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] Silence! [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, Mr. Losada, please. Please! [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] It's just... silence! You hear whispering here like other times. [[Murmurs.]] Silence! [[Murmurs.]] Go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u253	As you well know, it is a complementary competence of the statutory obligations to wash patients or to make beds. You ask to negotiate on your motion. As you know, since May 2nd that started this problem, EOXI's leadership has met with the Central Commission on more than five occasions. And we hope that both the management and the workers will be able to reach an agreement as soon as possible, for the sake not only of the center, because it has affected the cleaning, the safety, the health conditions of the hospital. But it has also harmed more than thirty operations that have ceased to take place and thirty diagnostic tests. With this, you cannot ask us in this Parliament to work so that the files are not carried out or these files are deleted. I suppose you won't doubt that public personnel in the health inspection will do their job. I simply, gentlemen of En Marea, want to tell you that the quality of health in Galicia is in the right direction. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u254	Thank you, Mrs. García Míguez. Author group of the motion, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u255	Thank you, President. I appreciate the support of the opposition groups and — that is what we needed to finish the day — I thank you for calling me prosovietic, because to me it is nothing negative. You know, besides, that I'm a secretary...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u256	Please, shut up!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u257	Yes, fortunately, far from it, my party's been legalizing for several decades, which I know they don't like. You call me prosovietic and I'm satisfied, because I'm general secretary of the Galician Communist Party in Spain, and I'm telling you that you're more than Chicago school. [[Applause]] That's exactly why, precisely for that, we have a public-private hospital. You did not refer to any aspect of the third point, in which we have requested and requested information, Mrs Míguez, on the fulfilment of the administration's relations with the concessionaire. You, to our regret, will again vote against the transfer of information. We see that we are the prosovietics on the side of democracy, and we see that those in Chicago, the Chicago school, are voting for opacity and not providing information to this House. [[Murmurs.]] We're already used to it — I've been here for at least six years. That you insult the nursing assistants don't have a match in a rostrum, Mrs. Míguez, because for you the companions can be simple towels thrown in a corridor and for us they are our companions. And a strike is a legitimate right, earned blood, fire and life, which is enshrined in the Spanish Constitution, Mrs. Miguez. A strike is successful when you win, when you have a high stake, when it's used to solve the rights of workers and workers and their claims. [[Murmurs.]] A strike is successful when it serves for something. [[Applause]] And, of course, I'm sorry to move you that your intervention was worse — and it's enough to say — than that of the health adviser of the past full, in the past interpellation. Because at least Mr. Almuínña said in this rostrum — and that is why I said that I was grasping that phrase — that everything could be negotiated and that they were willing to sit down to resolve this conflict. Unfortunately, we don't see it that way, and what you can't move to a staff who's already tired of work is a new workload. No proposal was made here. We simply ask that they feel like negotiating and are not even able to vote in favour of this. I don't really know where the Health Council dialogue is. And, of course, you will not try to solve it. They could probably propose to increase professionals, as they did at some other center, for example in Ourense, but there is no proposal here. Mrs Míguez, we will continue the prosovietics by calling them democracy in this House.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u258	Thank you. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. Do you accept the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group? Miss Solla, do you accept the amendment? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please! Let's vote. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u259	We are voting, firstly — close the doors, please — on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the working conditions and functions of the forest and environmental agents of Galicia. The amendment of En Marea is accepted and the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada, on the action to be taken by the Government of Galicia in relation to the working conditions and functions of the forest and environmental agents of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u260	We are now voting on the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in the field of attention to people with acute myocardial infarction. No amendments were tabled. We vote. G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in matters of attention to people with acute myocardial infarction. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u261	And we voted for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mrs Eva Solla, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with the provision of maintenance services at the new Hospital of Vigo. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is accepted. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of En Marea, at the initiative of Ms Eva Solla Fernández, on the performances to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the provision of maintenance services at the new hospital in Vigo. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2018-07-10-DSPG078.u262	There are no more points today. Full until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
